resources. 16 October 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON ECONOMIC AND MONETARY AFFAIRS for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Commission White Paper on European governance ( COM(2001) 428 – C5‑0454/2001 – 2001/2181(COS)) Draftsman: Karl von Wogau PROCEDURE The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs appointed Karl von Wogau, draftsman at its meeting of 9 October 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 10 October 2001 and 16 October 2001. At the latter meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following took part in the vote: Christa Randzio-Plath, chairwoman; José Manuel García-Margallo y Marfil and Philippe A.R. Herzog, vice-chairmen; Karl von Wogau, draftsman; Generoso Andria, Richard A. Balfe, Luis Berenguer Fuster, Pervenche Berès, Hans Udo Bullmann, Benedetto Della Vedova, Harald Ettl (for Simon Francis Murphy), Jonathan Evans, Carles-Alfred Gasòliba i Böhm, Robert Goebbels, Lisbeth Grönfeldt Bergman, Christopher Huhne, Pierre Jonckheer, Othmar Karas, Giorgos Katiforis, Piia-Noora Kauppi, Werner Langen (for Christoph Werner Konrad), Jules Maaten (for Olle Schmidt), Ioannis Marinos, Ioannis Patakis, Karla M.H. Peijs, Fernando Pérez Royo, José Javier Pomés Ruiz, Alexander Radwan, Bernhard Rapkay, Karin Riis-Jørgensen, Peter William Skinner, Ieke van den Burg (for Bruno Trentin) and Theresa Villiers. SHORT JUSTIFICATION The Union's decision-making process is becoming further and further removed from the concerns of European citizens, who are displaying a growing mistrust of the objectives of the Union's policies and measures. The Commission proposes that the Community method be brought up to date on the basis of openness, participation, accountability, effectiveness and coherence, whilst observing the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. It claims that it is necessary to implement an enhanced culture of consultation and dialogue, to reform comitology comprehensively and also to guarantee better representation of the Union in international organisations. The EMU is a very specific area at the height of its development. In addition, the European Central Bank occupies a very special place. Finally, strengthening coordination between monetary policies will probably mean an increased role for the Euro-group , which, whilst retaining its informality, will be called upon to become an essential institutional player. This particular characteristic must be guaranteed by maintaining an institutional equilibrium which respects the independence of the European Central Bank and its democratic accountability to Parliament. Better international representation of the Union, for example at the level of the Monetary Fund or the World Bank is also necessary from now on. Finally, with regard to financial services, the widest possible consultation of economic operators cannot replace Parliament's role as a co-legislator and guarantor of the interests of citizens. For this initiative to be successful, legislation must be clearly defined by specifying whether legislative acts are regulatory, programme-based or budgetary. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. welcomes the White Book on governance and the principles of good governance; underlines however that the principles of a parliamentary democracy and the co-decision procedure in the European legislation should be maintained; 2. calls for the extension of