terrorist acts" . He compared the situation of "the disappeared" to "Hitler's concentration camps" and went on to say "I am not opposed to a humanitarian agreement, but under reasonable conditions" . He stressed the need to ensure that any released guerrillas did not commit new atrocities. "Why release those who do not respect the Constitution?" he asked. On human rights, he emphasised that his government had made "a great deal of progress" . He added "Our goal is that the whole country should feel free" . As regards the new anti-terrorist law giving the army judicial powers, he believed there was no "institutional conflict" . He added "After arrests have been made, the cases are judged by the judicial authorities. This law was adopted by Congress" . Monica FRASSONI (Greens/EFA, I) voiced her concern. "The problem I have had while listening to you this morning remains your definition of terrorism" , she said. "As it is too broad, it can cover all types of act. Furthermore, I am scared by your indifference to the fate of those who have 'disappeared'. Why not consider a humanitarian negotiation?" Several MEPs raised questions about the relationship between the anti-guerrilla paramilitaries, who also committed acts of violence, and the government. "Are you making the necessary efforts to combat the paramilitaries in the same way as the guerrillas?", asked Joan VALLVE (ELDR, E). "Why negotiate with the paramilitaries and not with the FARC?" wondered Maj Britt THEORIN (PES, S). And Giovanni Claudio FAVA (PES, I) asked the President why he thought that "the members of FARC are terrorists and not the paramilitaries" . In reply, President URIBE said that when former President Pastrana had tried to embark on a peace process, "FARC did not keep its word" . He argued that there was a difference between the "multimillionaire" guerrillas of his country, who flourished "thanks to drugs and kidnappings" and the "guerrillas of Central America, who are poor and who have agreed to negotiate, as in El Salvador" . Winding up the meeting, Elmar BROK (EPP-ED, D) said to the Colombian President "You have spoken passionately in favour of a strong, democratic state and the rule of law. We must draw hope from this appeal." 11.02.2004 Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy In the chair: Elmar BROK (EPP-ED, D) Press enquiries: Joëlle Fiss - tel. Brussels (32-2) 28 41075 / tel. Strasbourg (33-3) 88 73840 e-mail: foreign-press@europarl.eu.int