Member States shall ensure that investment and ancillary services may be provided within their territories through the establishment of a branch of an investment firm provided that those services are covered by the authorisation granted to the investment firm in the home Member State. Member States shall not impose any additional requirements on the organisation and operation of the branch in respect of the matters covered by this Directive. 2. Member States shall require any investment firm wishing to establish a branch within the territory of another Member State first to notify the competent authority of its home Member State and to provide it with the following information: a) the Member States within the territory of which it plans to establish a branch; b) a programme of operations setting out inter alia the services to be offered and the organisational structure of the branch and indicating whether the branch intends to employ the services of tied agents; c) the address in the host Member State from which documents may be obtained; d) the names of those responsible for the management of the branch. 3. Unless the competent authority of the home Member State has reason to doubt the adequacy of the administrative structure or the financial situation of an investment firm, taking into account the activities envisaged, it shall, within three months of receiving all the information, communicate that information to the competent authority of the host Member State and inform the investment firm concerned accordingly. 4. In addition to the information referred to in paragraph 2, the competent authority of the home Member State shall communicate details of the accredited compensation scheme of which the investment firm is a member in accordance with Directive 97/9/EC to the competent authority of the host Member State. In the event of a change in the particulars, the competent authority of the home Member State shall inform the authority of the host Member State accordingly. 5. Where the competent authority of the home Member State refuses to communicate the information to the competent authority of the host Member State, it shall give reasons for its refusal to the investment firm concerned within three months of receiving all the information. 6. On receipt of a communication from the competent authority of the host Member State, or failing such communication from the latter at the latest after two months from the date of transmission of the communication by the competent authority of the home Member State, the branch may be established and commence business. 7. Each Member State shall provide that, where an investment firm authorised in another Member State has established a branch within its territory, the competent authority of the home Member State of the investment firm, in the exercise of its responsibilities and after informing the competent authority of the host Member State, may itself or through the intermediary of persons instructed for that purpose, carry out on-site inspections in that branch. 8. In the event of a change in any of the information communicated in accordance with paragraph 2, an investment firm shall