Reply (24 November 2009) The Council would like to point out that the functioning of the internal energy market and the security of energy supply are closely linked to each other. Indeed, on the one hand, an effective, fully-functioning and interconnected internal energy market is an essential condition for a secure supply of energy in Europe. On the other hand, energy security is a key priority that needs to be enhanced, notably by improving energy efficiency, diversifying energy suppliers, sources and supply routes, and promoting the Union's energy interests vis-à-vis third countries. The first and most significant step to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market, and thus enhance energy security, is prompt transposition into national law of the Third Internal Energy Market Legislative Package, which was adopted on 13 July 2009 OJ L 211, 14.8.2009. , and swift and proper implementation of it by Member States. The Energy Package ensures that the internal market operates smoothly for all consumers and enables the EU to achieve a more secure energy supply. Moreover, the Council draws the Honourable Member's attention to the economic recovery plan agreed by the European Council in December 2008 which foresees the mobilisation of the possibilities, in the context of the Community budget, for strengthening investment in the energy sector. This has been put in concrete form in the European Parliament and Council Regulation of 13 July 2009 establishing a programme to aid economic recovery by granting Community financial assistance to projects in the field of energy OJ L 200, 31.7.2009. , which provides for EUR 3.98 billion over the 2009-2010 period, including EUR 2.365 billion for energy infrastructure. The Council would also point to the Baltic Energy Market Interconnection Plan (BEMIP), agreed by the eight Littoral States of the Baltic Sea and the Commission through a memorandum of understanding signed in July. The BEMIP covers in particular energy market integration, electricity interconnections and power generation, as well as gas diversification of routes and sources. The Council would like also to draw attention to the Nabucco Intergovernmental Agreement which was signed in July by the four EU Member States concerned and Turkey, as well as to the Italy-Turkey-Greece Interconnector, where progress was achieved notably through an interconnection between Bulgaria and Greece for which a memorandum of understanding was signed in July. Finally, the Council would like to add that cooperation with the countries of South East Europe within the Energy Community is important both for the functioning of the internal energy market and for enhancing security of supply through the implementation of the relevant energy acquis in that region.