(Integrated guideline No 13). Modification 14 Section B, Chapter B.2, paragraph 9 Guideline. To encourage the sustainable use of resources and strengthen the synergies between environmental protection and growth, Member States should give priority to the internalisation of external environmental costs ; to increasing energy efficiency and to the development and application of environment-friendly technologies. The implementation of these priorities should be in line with existing European Commitments and with the actions and instruments proposed in the Environmental Technologies Action Plan (ETAP), through the use of market-based instruments, risk funds and R&D funding, greening of public procurement and the removal of environmentally harmful subsidies alongside other policy instruments (Integrated guideline No 14). Guideline. To encourage the sustainable use of resources and strengthen the synergies between environmental protection and growth, Member States should give priority to the internalisation of external environmental costs , particularly in the fields of energy, transport and agriculture, to increasing energy efficiency and to the development and application of environment-friendly technologies. Member States should, moreover, use environmental policies more offensively to enhance growth and employment by developing eco-technology and eco-innovation. Moreover, Member States should finance high-quality public investments, such as the ones aiming at the de-coupling of growth from energy consumption, transport and resource use, as well as investments needed to meet the Kyoto targets, including the efficient use of traditional forms of energy, especially those which do not pose a risk to the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol. The implementation of these priorities should be in line with existing European Commitments and with the actions and instruments proposed in the Environmental Technologies Action Plan (ETAP), through the use of market-based instruments, risk funds and R&D funding, greening of public procurement and the removal of environmentally harmful subsidies alongside other policy instruments (Integrated guideline No 14). Modification 15 Section B, Chapter B.2, paragraph 11 Guideline. To contribute to a strong European industrial base, Member States should focus on the development of new technologies and markets. This implies in particular commitment to the setting up and implementation of joint European technology initiatives and public-private partnerships that help tackle genuine market failures, as well as the creation and development of regional or local clusters (Integrated guideline No 15). Guideline. To contribute to a strong European industrial base, Member States should focus on the development of new technologies and markets , outside Europe as well, to ensure that globalisation is not a threat, but a new opportunity for the world’s leading exporting entity . They should draw up a communication strategy to tackle the sense of insecurity felt by citizens in the face of globalisation, the opening up of markets and competition. This implies in particular commitment to the setting up and implementation of joint European technology initiatives and public-private partnerships that help tackle genuine market failures, as well as the creation and development of regional or local clusters and continuous strategic sectoral dialogues with relevant stakeholders, in particular the social partners (Integrated guideline No 15). 11. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, and the governments