the implementation and progress made in the carrying out of priority projects which concern cross‑border connections as mentioned in Annex II, points 1, 2 and 7. 1. On the basis of the reports mentioned in paragraph -1 (new) and every two years the Commission shall draw up a report on the implementation of this Decision, which it shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. In this report, attention shall also be given to the implementation and progress made in the carrying out of priority projects which concern cross‑border connections as mentioned in Annex II, points 1, 2 and 7. Justification Based on amendment 16 of first reading. Together with amendment 5, this amendment could be a compromise between the position of the EP at first reading and the common position. In order to ensure an efficient control by the co-legislator (the EP), it is not acceptable to extend the reporting period for the implementation reports from 2 to 4 years. This period is certainly too long. The annual report issued in pursuance of Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 (rules for granting Community financial aid for TEN) concerns a different legislative act, which does not define the projects of community interest and those to be considered as priority projects. Compromise amendment Amendment 8 Article 11, paragraph 1a (new) 1a. In addition this report shall examine in detail the justifications for any support exceeding 10% of the total project cost, given that all such funding must only occur if it is clearly in the interests of the European economy and general public interest, where funding from commercial sources has been proven to be unfeasible, and where this does not result in a distortion of competition between undertakings. Justification See amendment 1 EXPLANATORY STATEMENT 1.) Key issues of the present proposal The present proposal for a revision of the Guidelines for Trans-European Energy Networks (TEN-Energy) was put forward by the Commission taking account of the recent developments following from the implementation of the Directive on liberalising the markets for electricity and natural gas, the increasing dependence on imported energy and the setting of targets for the penetration of renewable energy sources. It is part of the measures requested by the Stockholm and Barcelona European Councils with a view to exploiting the potential of the internal market, in particular for the creation of the framework for the establishment of efficient trans-frontier markets with the support of appropriate infrastructure capacities. At Barcelona the European Council established "the target for Member States of a level of electricity interconnections equivalent to at least 10% of their installed production capacity by 2005". As far back as its Green Paper, ‘Towards a European strategy for the security of energy supply' the Commission referred to the need to expand the European energy infrastructure still further (particularly in Southern Europe, between France and Spain), but there are still political and financial obstacles to this. The main aim is to realise two priority objectives: to ensure security of energy supply and to