in accordance with one of the following procedures: (a) The independent experts appointed by the Commission for the evaluations provided for in Article 6 of Decision No .../2002/EC [on the sixth framework programme ] and in specific programmes under the sixth framework programme shall be very high-ranking individuals from the fields of science, industry or politics with significant experience in research, research policy or research programme management at national or international level. (b) The independent experts appointed by the Commission to assist in the evaluation of proposals for networks of excellence and integrated projects and in monitoring the projects selected and carried out shall be individuals from the fields of science or industry and/or with experience in the field of innovation and also with the highest level of knowledge and who are internationally recognised authorities in the relevant specialist area. (c) The independent experts appointed by the Commission to form the groups referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall be professionals renowned for their knowledge, skills and top-level experience in the field or regarding the issues to be dealt with by the group. (d) For cases other than those covered by points (a), (b) and (c), and in order to take the various operators in the research sector into consideration in a balanced manner, the Commission shall appoint independent experts with skills and knowledge appropriate to the tasks assigned to them. To this end, it shall rely on calls for applications from individuals or calls addressed to research institutions with a view to establishing lists of suitable candidates, or may, if it deems appropriate, select any individual with the appropriate skills from outside the lists. 3. When appointing an independent expert, the Commission will ensure that the expert is not faced with a conflict of interests in relation to the matter on which he is required to give an opinion. To this end, the Commission shall require experts to sign a declaration to the effect that there is no such conflict of interest at the time of their appointment and undertaking to inform the Commission if one should arise in the course of their duties. Article 12 Contracts and Consortium Agreements 1. The Commission shall conclude a contract for each proposal selected for an indirect action. This contract shall be drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the sixth framework programme, and in accordance with this Regulation, taking into account the characteristics of the various instruments concerned. The Commission, after conferring with interested parties from the Member States and the Associated States, will elaborate a model contract to facilitate the drawing up of contracts. 2. The contract shall establish the rights and obligations of all participants in accordance with this Regulation , and in particular the provisions for the scientific , technological and financial monitoring of the indirect action, for the updating of its objectives, for changes in consortium membership and for the payment of the Community financial contribution, as well as , if applicable, conditions for the eligibility of any necessary expenditure and rules for dissemination and