the Commission's legislative and policy priorities in the area of food safety. 7. Before 31 January each year, the Management Board shall adopt the Authority's programme of work for the coming year. It shall also adopt a revisable multi-annual programme. The Management Board shall ensure that these programmes are consistent with the European Union's legislative and policy priorities in the area of food safety. Amendment 104 Article 24, paragraph 7, subparagraph 3 The Executive Director shall forward the programmes and report to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States, and shall have them published. Deleted Amendment 105 Article 24, paragraph 8 8. The Management Board shall adopt the Authority's internal rules on the basis of a proposal by the Executive Director. 8. The Management Board shall adopt the Authority's internal rules on the basis of a proposal by the Executive Director. These rules shall be made public. Amendment 106 Article 24, paragraph 10 10. The Executive Director shall take part in the meetings of the Management Board, without voting rights, and shall provide the Secretariat. 10. The Executive Director shall take part in the meetings of the Management Board, without voting rights, and shall provide the Secretariat. The Chairperson of the Scientific Committee shall participate in the meetings of the Management Board without voting rights. Amendments 107 and 220/rev. Article 25, paragraph 1 1. The Executive Director shall be appointed by the Management Board, on the basis of a proposal by the Commission, for a period of five years which shall be renewable. He may be removed from office by the Management Board. 1. For the appointment of the Executive Director an open and transparent selection process shall be used. The Management Board shall appoint the Executive Director, on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission after an open competition, following publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities and elsewhere, and a hearing of the candidates in the European Parliament. His term of office shall be for a period of five years and shall be renewable. He may be removed from office by a majority of the Management Board . Amendment 108 Article 25, paragraph 2, point (b) (b) for drawing up the Authority's work programmes in agreement with the Commission ; (b) for drawing up the Authority's work programmes after having consulted the Commission, the Advisory Forum and the European Parliament ; Amendment 109 Article 25, paragraph 2, point (g a) (new) (ga) for developing and maintaining contact with the European Parliament, and for ensuring a regular dialogue with its relevant committees. Amendment 110 Article 25, paragraph 3 , point (a) (a) a draft report covering all the activities of the Authority in the previous year; (a) a draft general report covering all the activities of the Authority in the previous year; Amendment 111 Article 25, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. The Executive Director shall forward the programmes and general report to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States, and shall have them published. He shall present