proposal establishes the succession of the European Community to the ECSC. According to the proposal, the net revenue deriving from the investments of the assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund would constitute revenue in the EU budget. This revenue would be earmarked for a specific purpose, namely for financing research projects in the sectors related to the coal and steel industry. The Research Fund would be managed by the Commission. Out of the amounts yielded by the Fund, 27.2% would be allocated to the coal sector and 72.8% to the steel sector. This breakdown could be modified only by a unanimous decision by the Council. Apart from defining the architecture and terminology of the future system, the proposal states that the administrative expenditure resulting from the liquidation, investment and management of the Research Fund shall be covered by the general budget. In addition, it provides the necessary dispositions to enable the participation of new Member States in the activities of the Research Fund. Furthermore, it determines the means to offset fluctuations on the financial markets on the assets of the Research Fund and the annual allocations of this Fund. The Commission would draw up each year a profit-and-loss account, a balance sheet as well as a financial report to show up the liquidation operations and the investment transactions provided for under this legislative act. The Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors would have the same powers of control and discharge as set out in the Treaties and the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget. In addition, the Commission proposes to effect a smoothing operation and make provisions for contingencies in order to establish a stable revenue for coal and steel research and to eliminate fluctuations in funding caused by movements on the financial markets. Financial guidelines on the management and investment of ECSC assets The financial guidelines define the types of transactions the Commission is authorised to undertake, and establish prudential limits for different categories of investment so as to minimise risk. The proposal presents budgetary and accounting procedures to ensure that the returns earned on such assets are correctly attributed within the budget to their intended purposes. The management of ECSC assets would be based on the Commission’s internal regulations. In addition, the Commission suggests that the guidelines should be reviewed and/or supplemented every five years starting from 1 January 2008, and adjusted whenever deemed necessary. The instructions concerning the use of funds, allocation of assets, investment categories, investment limits, transfer to the EU budget, investment procedures and accounting are specified in the annex to the proposal. 3. General assessment of the framework proposal The rapporteur strongly opposes the Commission’s approach according to which the European Parliament would have very little influence on any of these decisions. The Commission seems to refer to Article 10 of the Interinstitutional Agreement, according to which “the financial perspective does not take into account of budget items financed by earmarked revenue within the meaning of Article 4 of the Financial Regulation”. Interinstitutional agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European