formal rules may exist in a participating Member State where the agreement is inserted in a marriage contract. If, at the time the agreement is concluded, the spouses are habitually resident in different participating Member States which lay down different formal rules, compliance with the formal rules of one of th o se States would suffice. If, at the time the agreement is concluded, only one of the spouses is habitually resident in a participating Member State which lays down additional formal rules, th o se rules should be complied with. Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Recital 18 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (18) An agreement designating the applicable law should be able to be concluded and modified at the latest when the court is seised, and even during the course of the proceeding if the lex fori so provides. In that event, it should be sufficient for such designation to be recorded in court in accordance with the lex fori . (18) An agreement designating the applicable law should be able to be concluded and modified at the latest at the time the court is seised, and even during the course of the proceeding if the law of the forum so provides. In that event, it should be sufficient for such designation to be recorded in court in accordance with the law of the forum . Amendment 19 Proposal for a regulation Recital 19 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (19) Where no applicable law is chosen, and with a view to guaranteeing legal certainty and predictability and preventing a situation from arising in which one of the spouses applies for divorce before the other one does in order to ensure that the proceeding is governed by a given law which he or she considers more favourable to his or her own interests, this Regulation should introduce harmonised conflict-of-laws rules on the basis of a scale of successive connecting factors based on the existence of a close connection between the spouses and the law concerned. These connecting factors have been chosen so that the divorce or legal separation proceeding is governed by a law with which the spouses have a close connection , and they are based first and foremost on the law of the spouses' habitual residence . (19) Where no applicable law is chosen, and with a view to guaranteeing legal certainty and predictability and preventing a situation from arising in which one of the spouses applies for divorce before the other one does in order to ensure that the proceeding is governed by a given law which he or she considers more favourable to his or her own interests, this Regulation should introduce harmonised conflict-of-law rules on the basis of a scale of successive connecting factors based on the existence of a close connection between the spouses and the law concerned. Such connecting factors should be chosen in such a way as to ensure that proceedings relating to divorce or legal separation are governed by a law with which the spouses have a close connection. Amendment