subsidiaries and branches; (c) the functions and the procedure for informing and consulting the representative body; (d) the frequency of meetings of the representative body; (e) the financial and material resources to be allocated to the representative body; (f) where, during negotiations, the parties decide to establish one or more information and consultation procedures instead of a representative body, the arrangements for implementing those procedures; (g) where, during negotiations, the parties decide to establish arrangements for participation, the substance of those arrangements including (if applicable) the number of members in the SPE's administrative or supervisory body which the employees will be entitled to elect, appoint, recommend or oppose, the procedures for electing, appointing, recommending or opposing those members by the employees, and their rights; (h) the date of entry into force of the agreement and its duration, cases where the agreement should be renegotiated and the procedure for its renegotiation. Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 38 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. Negotiations shall be limited to a period of six months. The parties may agree to extend negotiations beyond this period for an additional six-month period. The negotiations shall otherwise be governed by the law of the home Member State . 5. Negotiations shall be limited to a period of six months. The parties may agree to extend negotiations beyond this period for an additional six-month period. Amendment 33 Proposal for a regulation Article 38 – paragraph 6 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6a. The members of the special negotiating body, the members of the representative body, any employees' representatives exercising functions under the information and consultation procedure and any employees' representatives in the supervisory or administrative body of an SPE who are employees of the SPE, its subsidiaries or branches or of a participating company shall, in the exercise of their functions, enjoy the same protection and guarantees provided for employees' representatives by the national legislation and/or practice in force in their country of employment. This shall apply in particular to attendance at meetings of the special negotiating body or representative body, any other meeting under the agreement referred to in Article 38(4)(f) or any meeting of the administrative or supervisory body, and to the payment of wages for members employed by a participating company or the SPE or its subsidiaries or branches during any period of absence necessary for the performance of their duties. Amendment 34 Proposal for a regulation Article 38 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 38a Misuse of procedures Member States shall take appropriate measures in accordance with Community law in order to prevent the misuse of an SPE for the purpose of depriving employees of rights of employee involvement or withholding such rights. Amendment 35 Proposal for a regulation Article 38 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 38b Compliance 1. Every Member State shall ensure that the management of branches of an SPE and the supervisory or administrative bodies of subsidiaries and of participating companies which are situated within its