calendar days of the day on which the change takes place. The SPE shall submit any change in the particulars or documents referred to in paragraph 2(ga) for entry onto the register on an annual basis. After every amendment to the articles of association, the SPE shall submit its complete text for entry onto the register as amended to date. Justification The changes concerning the number of the SPE's employees should be done only once a year. Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 6 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6a. Documents and particulars of the registration of an SPE shall be disclosed in the database referred to in Article 4c and on the SPE's website. Justification It is important to guarantee disclosure at European level for the SPE established in the EU in order to guarantee consistency between the specific regime of the SPE and the appropriate dimension on the Internal Market. Amendment 28 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) the name of the SPE, the address of its registered office and, where appropriate, the fact that the company is being wound up. (b) the name of the SPE, the address of its registered office and, where appropriate, details of its central administration or principal place of business, the existence of any branches and the fact that the company is being wound up. Justification It is important to provide for an appropriate system of disclosure able to give relevant information about a SPE. Amendment 29 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) details of the members of the executive management body of the SPE. Justification For business partners it is important to know who is a member of the executive management body and who is authorised by the company. Amendment 30 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Where acts were performed on behalf of an SPE before its registration, the SPE may assume the obligations arising out of such acts after its registration. Where the SPE does not assume those obligations, the persons who performed those acts shall be jointly and severally liable, without limit. Where acts were performed on behalf of an SPE before its registration, the SPE may assume the obligations arising out of such acts after its registration. Where the SPE does not assume those obligations within one month of its registration , the persons who performed those acts shall be jointly and severally liable, without limit. Justification Legal safety reasons. Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The shares of the SPE shall be entered in the list of shareholders. 1 . The amount and nature of shareholders' shares in the SPE shall be entered onto the register . Justification If shareholders were merely recorded on a list to be kept by the management body, this would