WRITTEN QUESTION P-4249/05 by Johannes Voggenhuber (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (11 November 2005) Subject: EU animal transport legislation and the ZDF television programme broadcast on 11 October 2005 at 22.15 The programme ‘Endstation Beirut’ (Last Stop Beirut) broadcast on ZDF on Tuesday, 11 October 2005 at 22.15 has once again brought to light appalling images of the suffering of animals involved in long-distance transport. The programme showed a cattle transport to Sète, France which continued by sea to Beirut. Animals are still being carted for thousands of kilometres and forced to endure unimaginable suffering in stuffy ships, because live shipments are more profitable than meat shipments as a result of EU export subsidies. Six million people have already protested throughout the EU against the EU subsidies and this scandalously cruel treatment of animals. The EU agricultural ministers did adopt new EU legislation on animal transport in November 2005, providing for transport vehicles to be monitored by satellite, and more stringent requirements have been introduced concerning registration, approvals, responsibilities and expertise in the transport industry. But regulations on transport times, loading densities and other essential measures to improve animal protection have been further postponed. The film clearly showed that conditions for the animals have in practice hardly improved: as before, animal suffering is funded by the million out of taxation, and as before, there are glaring failures in the area of inspection and administration. Will the Commission shortly be proposing the permanent abolition of export subsidies for living animals shipped to third countries? If so, when? What measures is the Commission planning to redress the very serious failings in the area of inspection? Will the Commission be taking the scandalous findings in this documentary as its cue to put forward further proposals for reform in the main problem areas (transport time, loading density, temperatures and so on)?