13 Annex, Point 1 1. The list should be drawn up by representatives of quality assurance and accreditation agencies active in the Member States, together with representatives of the higher education sector (universities and non university higher education, students, university teachers and researchers) and social partners. 1. The list should be drawn up by representatives of the national authorities and quality assurance and accreditation agencies active in the Member States, together with representatives of the higher education sector (universities and non university higher education, students, university teachers and researchers) and social partners. Amendment 14 Annex, Point 2, indent 3 - operation on the basis of the common set of standards , procedures and guidelines referred to in section 6 of this recommendation, - operation on the basis of the common set of standards and guidelines referred to in section B of this recommendation, Amendment 15 Annex, point 2 a (new) 2a. In the event of an initial refusal of registration, re-assessment is possible on the basis of improvements made. Justification It is important to set up a procedure whereby, in the event of refusal, agencies can submit themselves for reassessment after they have made the necessary improvements. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT THE COMMISSION PROPOSAL The recommendation at issue here builds on the recommendation adopted in 1998 on European cooperation in quality assurance (QA) in higher education Council Recommendation of 24 September 1998 on European cooperation in quality assurance in higher education (98/561/EC) OJ. L 270, 07.10.1998, p. 56. . Both recommendations seek to promote mutual recognition of quality assurance systems and quality assessments in Europe. At the meeting in Bergen on 19-20 May 2005, the ministers responsible for higher education from 45 European states discussed the progress of the Bologna process and agreed on the conditions for further development of the European higher education area, including with regard to QA systems. It was noted that many countries have already made significant progress in establishing QA systems and promoting cooperation. However, further measures are needed: in particular, higher education institutions need to continue their efforts to improve quality by the systematic introduction of internal mechanisms directly linked to external QA. In this context the Commission proposes that the Council and the European Parliament adopt a new recommendation defining five steps on the way to mutual recognition of quality assurance systems and assessment. A. Internal quality assurance mechanisms The aim is to achieve further progress in the development and consolidation of internal QA mechanisms at higher education institutions in Europe. Internal quality management is also intended to serve as the basis for the external assessment of European higher education institutions, in order to optimise their comparability, transparency and performance. B. A common set of standards, procedures and guidelines By developing and applying a uniform system for QA standards, procedures and guidelines, the aim is to create uniform rules for highlighting similarities and differences between study programmes, without harmonising them. C. A European Register of QA and accreditation agencies Here the aim is to set up a register of reliable QA agencies. The agencies should be regularly