disclose conflicts of interest and ensure at all times the quality, integrity and thoroughness of the credit rating and review process. An internal control system and a compliance function should, in particular, feature among such policies and procedures. Justification Technical amendment. It reflects the new wording of the respective article in terms of elimination or identification, management and disclosure of conflict of interests. Amendment 1 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10) In order to ensure the independence of the credit rating process from the business interest of the credit rating agency as a company, the credit rating agencies should ensure that the administrative or supervisory board shall include at least three nonexecutive members, who should be independent along the lines of point 13 in Section III of Commission Recommendation 2005/162/EC on the role of non-executive or supervisory directors of listed companies and on the committees of the (supervisory) board . Moreover, it is necessary that the majority of members of the administrative or supervisory board , including all independent members have sufficient expertise in financial services. (10) In order to ensure the independence of the credit rating process from the business interest of the credit rating agency as a company, the credit rating agencies should ensure that the administrative or supervisory board is independent when monitoring and reporting on proper compliance with this Regulation with regard to the maintenance of the independence and quality of credit ratings . Moreover, members of the administrative or supervisory board should have sufficient expertise in appropriate areas of financial services. Justification There is no need for the monitoring function to be by non-executive directors, and in some Member States such directorships do not exist or do not exist in an appropriate form. Also there may be conflict of interest with shareholder responsibilities. This ‘function’ formulation allows the best option to be selected . Amendment 1 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 11 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (11) In order to avoid conflicts of interest the remuneration of independent members of the administrative or supervisory board should not depend on the business performance of the agency. (11) In order to avoid conflicts of interest the remuneration of the members of the administrative or supervisory board should not depend on the business performance of the agency. Amendment 1 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 13 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (13) Long lasting relationships with the same rated entities or its related third parties could compromise independence of analysts and persons approving credit ratings . Therefore those analysts and persons should be subject to a rotation mechanism. (13) Long lasting relationships with the same rated entities or its related third parties could compromise independence of analysts that are in direct contact with issuers . Therefore those analysts should be subject to a mandatory rotation mechanism. Amendment 1 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14) Credit rating agencies should use rating methodologies that are rigorous, systematic, and continuous and result in