Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (24 April 2008) The Commission presented in December 2007 its first report on the implementation of the 2004 Single Sky Legislation COM(2007)845 final. First Report on the implementation of the Single Sky Legislation: achievements and the way forward. . It shows that the current air traffic management (ATM) system is operating close to its limits, given the expected traffic growth. The air traffic management system is still largely fragmented along national borders. Network coordination and efficient use of airspace could be improved, as suboptimal routings (flight inefficiency) do not only translate into a loss of time and money, but also into unnecessary fuel burn and emissions. The existing legislation does not explicity refer to the environmental impact of aviation. Although we do not have detailed information on the carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) emissions on particular departure routes, the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) Special Report on aviation published in 1999 indicated that improvements in ATM could help to improve overall fuel efficiency (and therefore emissions) by 6‑12 %. Improvements in ATM and other measures which can be taken by airlines to reduce emissions of CO 2 will also be encouraged by the Commission's proposal to include aviation in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme COM(2006)818 final. Proposal for a Directive of Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/87/EC so as to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community. . As announced in its 2007 Report, the Commission is now considering a Single Sky II initiative for 2008 which looks into re-enforcing the Functional Airspace Block (FABs) implementation and areas of airspace below FL195 ( 8600 metres). The over-arching objective of the revision of the Single Sky legislation is to ensure that the ATM system provides the safest and most efficient infrastructure possible for the aviation industry and other users so that the Lisbon objectives can be fulfilled. Keywords are: safety; sustainability of aviation and performance of air navigation services. With respect to a veto from Belgium on the reorganisation of the MODRU 5T departure route, the Commission does not have specific information but route structure/network design is currently still under national responsibility.