sexual orientation. Amendment 4 Recital 8 (8) Key to the successful impact of the Community non-discrimination legislative framework is the extent to which it enjoys broad popular support. The European Year should act as a catalyst in raising awareness and in building momentum. It should help to focus political attention and mobilise everyone concerned in order to drive forward the new equal opportunities framework strategy of the European Union. (8) Key to the successful impact of the Community non-discrimination legislative framework is the extent to which it enjoys broad popular support. The European Year should act as a catalyst in raising awareness and in building momentum. It should help to focus political attention and mobilise everyone concerned in order to drive forward the new equal opportunities framework strategy of the European Union and gender mainstreaming . Amendment 5 Recital 9 The varying levels of progress made at national level and the differing national socio-economic, and cultural contexts and sensitivities call for the bulk of activities of the Year to be decentralised at national level, through a system of indirect centralised management in accordance with the procedures as laid down in article 54(2)(c) of the Financial Regulation and its implementing rules. The varying levels of progress made at national level and the differing national socio-economic, and cultural contexts and sensitivities call for the bulk of activities of the Year to be decentralised at national level, through a system of indirect centralised management in accordance with the procedures as laid down in article 54(2)(c) of the Financial Regulation and its implementing rules. In particular, social partners and relevant non-governmental organisations must be encouraged to participate in order to attain the objectives. Amendment 6 Article 2, point (a) (a) Rights – Raising awareness on the right to equality and non-discrimination - The European Year will highlight the message that all people, irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation are entitled to equal treatment. (a) Rights - Raising awareness on the right to equality and non-discrimination (most Community legislation on equality - that is, more than ten directives - is gender equality legislation) - The European Year will highlight the message that all people, irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation are entitled to equal opportunities and treatment. Amendment 7 Article 2, point (b) (b) Representation – Stimulating a debate on ways to increase the participation of under-represented groups in society – The European Year will encourage reflection and discussion on the need to promote their greater participation in society in all sectors and at all levels. (b) Representation - Stimulating a debate on ways to increase the participation of under-represented groups in society - The European Year will encourage reflection and discussion on the need to promote their greater participation in society in all sectors and at all levels, taking into account the fact that women make up more than half the population of the European Union and are under-represented in all sectors of decision-making and at