Question for written answer P-006546/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 François Alfonsi (Verts/ALE) (30 June 2011) Subject: Risks associated with oil drilling in the Mediterranean Sea In 2010, the French Ministry of the Environment issued a permit to allow prospecting for liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons to go ahead in ‘Rhône maritime’, an area of the Mediterranean Sea lying off the town of Toulon. The permit was granted despite the area's proximity to Port-Cros national park and the Pelagos sanctuary. What is more, it was granted without first consulting or even notifying the bodies responsible for the protected marine areas in question in the Mediterranean. Studies carried out by three scientific boards from Port-Cros national park, Scandola nature reserve and the international marine park of the Bouches de Bonifacio have demonstrated the impact which an incident during the exploration or exploitation of a liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons deposit could have on the environment. The studies have shown that such an incident could have immediate and far-reaching consequences for the preservation of the Port-Cros natural heritage site, but also for the Pelagos sanctuary and other protected marine and coastal areas in Corsica (the area most directly threatened) and on the Mediterranean coast as a whole. The seabed in the area covered by the permit is situated in deep water, which in itself makes exploration very risky, as highlighted by the April 2010 explosion of the oil rig in the Gulf of Mexico, which has had major environmental repercussions. Wind, surface currents and the depth of the water mean that Corsican nature reserves are particularly at risk, especially Scandola, a Unesco world heritage site, and the international marine park of the Bouches de Bonifacio. They would be the first areas affected by an oil disaster in the Mediterranean. The Barcelona Convention, in which France has been actively involved since 1976, aims to protect the Mediterranean's marine and coastal environment. The directive establishing the Natura 2000 network set out to preserve biodiversity in Europe, and the Rio Declaration issued at the 1992 Earth Summit includes a stipulation (principle No 2) that care should be taken to avoid damaging the environment when exploiting its resources. How then does the Commission intend to deal with the risks associated with oil drilling in the Mediterranean Sea? Although these directives and conventions have been ratified by the EU, France is flouting them. How does the Commission plan to ensure that they are observed?