the Treaty in respect of failure to act; The draft decision submitted to the European Parliament 2. Points out that the draft decision does not describe a situation currently in existence in the United States, but is based on a draft of the safe harbour principles (with the relevant explanations) which the US Department of Commerce will issue for the guidance of companies wishing to meet the adequate protection requirement of the Directive; 3. Draws the Commission's attention to the risk that the exchange of letters between the Commission and the US Department of Commerce on the implementation of the 'safe harbour' principles could be interpreted by the European and/or United States judicial authorities as having the substance of an international agreement adopted in breach of Article 300 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the requirement to seek Parliament's assent (Judgment of the Court of Justice of 9 August 1994: French Republic v. the Commission - Agreement between the Commission and the United States regarding the application of their competition laws (Case C-327/91)) [1994[ ECR p. I-3641. ; 4. Regrets that, in the course of the last two years, there has been no consultation of European undertakings with regard to the risk of discrimination in relation to US undertakings which would be subject to less onerous data protection requirements than those with which European undertakings must comply; 5. Regrets that, in contrast with the US authorities' consultation of NGOs active in the field of consumer protection, the Commission has not embarked on any such consultation of European NGOs; 6. Insists on the importance of providing the best possible level of consumer protection and, in this regard, urges the Commission to ensure and assist continuous monitoring of the safe harbour principles; 7. Calls into question the existence in the US of two different protection systems depending on whether or not the owners of the data are European, and wonders whether such a dual system complies with the clause prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of nationality contained in the relevant international (OECD) agreements; 8. Considers that the situation in the US as regards privacy protection is likely to evolve rapidly over the coming few years, that new legislation is likely to be enacted there which could introduce standards of protection that are higher than those required by the safe harbour principles and that the safe harbour arrangement will therefore need to be adapted in order not to be overtaken by these developments; 9. Takes the view that, if issued and implemented by individual firms, such principles and the relevant explanations could be considered adequate protection under the terms of Article 25 of the Directive provided that the following changes are made to them: - recognition of an individual right of appeal to an independent public body instructed to consider any appeal relating to an alleged violation of the principles; - an obligation on participating firms to compensate for the damage, whether moral or to property, suffered by those involved, in the event of violations of the principles, and an undertaking by the