WRITTEN QUESTION E-0922/06 by Hiltrud Breyer (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (7 March 2006) Subject: The situation on the turtle nesting beaches of Laganas Bay in Zakynthos The President of the Zakynthos National Marine Park, Mrs A. Karagounis, said in a recent press interview that at the beginning of the 2006 nesting season, EU inspectors will come to monitor the situation on the turtle nesting beaches of Laganas Bay in Zakynthos. However, inspectors were expected in September 2005 and they did not come. In fact, the greatest threat to the nesting turtles is not at the beginning of the tourist season, but during the high season when tourist demand for beaches is at its height. During the 2005 nesting season chaos prevailed in the sea and on the beaches of Laganas Bay, and nesting was severely hampered. Action was taken (20 August) after the high tourist season had ended and nesting was over, by which time it was too late. 1. How is the Commission continuing to monitor the situation in Zakynthos when the last on-the-spot appraisal was in September 2003? Is the Commission relying on statements made by the Greek authorities only? 2. Why did the Commission not send a monitoring team at any point during the 2005 nesting/hatching season, particularly when the situation on the beaches was appalling, with no protection whatsoever, and it was critical that it check that the Greek Government was complying with the demands laid down in the reasoned opinion of October 2004? 3. Can the Commission clarify the current situation and give its assurances that further monitoring will be conducted during the high season, when the situation is most critical and compliance with EC directives least likely? 4. Only one in a thousand hatchlings survive to adulthood, which means that as many as 10 nests are needed to produce a turtle that will reach maturity. How many of the eggs for those 10 nests were aborted in the sea last year because man-made obstacles (walls, beach furniture, vehicles, etc.) prevented the turtles from coming ashore to lay? 5. What does that mean for the turtle population of Laganas Bay in Zakynthos, and what confirmed scientific analysis about the current turtle population has the Commission consulted?