those which have arisen in the context of Equitable Life undermine consumer confidence in Europe's financial services market. The committee notes that the Commission is beginning to address the issue. However, more needs to be done to rectify the imbalance between hard law which makes it possible for financial services companies to trade across Europe on the one hand and soft instruments which intend to create a system of cross-border redress schemes on the other. In this regard and given the fact that legal routes are often too complex and expensive to be pursued by ordinary citizens, it seems appropriate to envisage EU legislation with binding measures that would oblige Member States to ensure that there are proper statutory alternative dispute resolution schemes within their territories. The jurisdiction of these schemes should be co-terminous with the scope of application of the rules to which the complaint relates. Since the application of conduct of business rules under the Third Life Directive falls within the responsibility of the host Member States, ombudsmen dealing with such complaints should be responsible for all contracts concluded within their territory, irrespective of whether they involve a foreign or a domestic company. b.) CEIOPS The Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors (CEIOPS) - previously called the 'European Conference of Insurance Supervisors' - was established pursuant to Decision 2004/6/EC of 5 November 2003 and began its operations on 28 May 2004. CEIOPS is composed of high-level representatives from the insurance and occupational pensions' supervisory authorities of the EU Member States. The authorities of the European Economic Area Member States (Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein) and EU candidate countries, as well as the European Commission, participate in CEIOPS as observers. CEIOPS performs the functions of the Level 3 Committee for the insurance and occupational pensions sectors. This role involves providing advice to the Commission on the drafting of implementation measures for framework directives and regulations on insurance and occupational pensions and establishing supervisory standards, recommendations and guidelines to enhance convergent and effective application of the regulations and to facilitate cooperation between national supervisors. Mr BJERRE-NIELSEN, Chairman of CEOPS, told the committee in H7 that CEIOPS's main focus has rather been on prudential matters but that " our mission naturally includes supervisory concerns for consumer protection and redress ". He pointed out that the protection of policyholders regarding complaints against insurance providers was a complex issue for CEIOPS: " Consumer rights and remedies are traditionally matters primarily for Member States. They tend not to be EU-wide. Variations in jurisdiction, national authorities and legitimate consumer expectations across the EU, are considerable. Sometimes CEIOPS members have no role provided for them. Often another national body has, even exclusively. Harmonised action is difficult, where it is permitted nationally at all. Nevertheless, generally speaking, where CEIOPS members can combine their efforts, they will do so, as I have outlined. CEIOPS recognises that there is more to do. Our work is by its very nature ongoing and growing. We fully intend to go into greater depth on consumer complaints processes across the EU " (H7). When