Answer given by Mrs Wallström on behalf of the Commission (10 March 2003) According to the informations at the disposal of the Commission, this is a private project which does not fulfill the eligibility criteria foreseen in the Piemonte operational programme to qualify for a Community co-financing through the Structural Funds. Under Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985, on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, as amended by Council Directive 97/11/EC of 3 March 1997 OJ L 73, 14.3.1997 . , Member States shall ensure that, before consent is given, projects likely to have significant effects on the environment by virtue, inter alia, of their nature, size or location are made subject to a requirement for development consent and an assessment with regard to their effects. Projects covered by the Directive are identified in the annexes. Projects listed in Annex I are made subject to an environmental impact assessment procedure (EIA). The project mentioned by the Honourable Member is covered by Annex I of Directive 85/337/EEC , as amended. Therefore, it is to be made subject to an EIA procedure. Based on the information given by the Honourable Member, it seems that an EIA procedure was carried out on the project in 1995 (concluded by Decree/VIA 11/08/1995) in the light of an impact study submitted by the developer in 1993. In addition, it appears that recent studies by the local authorities produced entirely different findings from those originally submitted by the developer, that in the meantime no development consent has been granted for this installation and that, at present, the developer has decided to set up the installation under the terms of the Decree/VIA 11/08/1995. In light of the above, the Commission would stress that, in general, in case where the EIA has been concluded but no development consent has been granted and if the state of the environment changes or there are different findings regarding the impact of the project on the environment between the time the assessment was undertaken and the time consent was granted, it follows that the assessment may need to be updated or extended accordingly. Hence, new information relating to likely significant environmental effects of the project must be taken into account during the development consent procedure. In particular, as regards this specific case, the situation seems to be at too early a stage: on the basis of the information given by the Honourable Member, it can be deduced that no administrative procedure of request for development consent of the project, based on the Decree/VIA 11/08/1995, is under way. In the light of the above, given the lack of specific grounds for the complaint on the application of the EIA Directive, no breach of the Directive can be identified at present. Should the Honourable Member provide additional information enabling the Commission to identify potential breach of Directive 85/337/EEC , as modified, the Commission would be able to investigate this matter. Council Directive 75/442/EEC of 15 July 1975 on waste, as amended by Council Directive 91/156/EEC of 18 March