the European Union. 5. FUNDING AND ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURE 5.1. Under part 1, the eligible expenditure of the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator network centres comprises operating costs and expenses for carrying out their actions. 5.2. The grant to the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator network centres shall not fund all their eligible expenditure in the calendar year for which it is awarded: at least 20 per cent of the bodies' budgets must be co-financed from non-Community sources. 5.3. Pursuant to Article 113(2) of the Financial Regulation, the principle of gradual reduction shall not apply to operating grants to the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator network centres, since they are bodies pursuing an objective of general European interest. 5.4. Under part 2, the costs to be taken into account in determining the operating grant shall be those necessary for the proper conduct of the normal activities of the body selected. In particular, these costs are personnel costs, overheads (rental and property charges, equipment, office supplies, telecommunications, postal charges, etc.), costs of internal meetings, publication, information and dissemination costs and costs directly linked to the body's activities. 5.5. An operating grant under part 2 of this Annex shall not fund all the body's eligible expenditure in the calendar year for which it is awarded. At least 20 per cent of the budgets of the bodies covered by this part must be co-financed from non-Community sources. Such co-financing may be partly contributed in kind, provided the contribution is valued at no more than the cost actually incurred and evidenced by accounting documents or the cost generally obtaining on the market in question. 5.6. Pursuant to Article 113(2) of the Financial Regulation, operating grants so awarded, if renewed, shall be gradually decreased. This reduction shall apply from the third year onwards, at a rate of 2,5 per cent per year. In order to observe this rule, which applies without prejudice to the co-financing rule mentioned above, the percentage of Community co-financing corresponding to the grant awarded for a given financial year shall be at least 2,5 points below the percentage of Community co-financing corresponding to the grant awarded for the previous financial year. 5.7. A grant awarded under part 3 of this Annex may not cover more than 75 per cent of the eligible costs of the action concerned. 5.8. For grants awarded in 2004, it will be possible for the period of eligibility of expenditure to start on 1 January 2004, provided that the expenditure does not precede the date on which the grant application was lodged or the date on which the beneficiary's budget year starts. 5.9. During 2004, in the case of beneficiaries whose budgetary year starts before 1 March, an exception may be granted to the obligation to sign the grant agreement within the first four months of the start of the beneficiary's budget year, as referred to in Article 112(2) of the Financial Regulation. In this case, the grant agreement should be signed by 30 June 2004 at the latest. 6. MANAGEMENT