Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (17 October 2008) The European Union encourages the provision of adequate, affordable and accessible good-quality care for children with a view to supporting female participation in the labour market. As the Honourable Member points out, specific targets have been set at EU level. In March 2002 the Council agreed that the Member States should strive ‘to provide childcare by 2010 to at least 90 % of all children between 3 years old and the mandatory school age and at least 33 % of all children under 3 years of age’ in an effort to remove disincentives to labour force participation, especially by women. The implementation of those targets is monitored in connection with the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs. In Italy a continuing lack of adequate available, accessible and affordable care, combined with fairly inflexible hours, is recognised as an important factor that deters Italian women from entering and remaining on the labour market and prevents a sound work-life balance. Regional imbalances are also significant. Italy has been encouraged to focus on these issues under the Lisbon Strategy. More recently, in March 2008 the European Council highlighted greater childcare and elderly care provision as a point for Italy to watch with a view to reconciling work and family life and fostering labour market participation of women. As the 2007 implementing report submitted by Italy notes, the Government launched a national plan in December 2006 to develop socio-educational services for early childhood. The plan is financed and implemented by the Government and the regional and local authorities. It lays special focus on Italy's southern regions. Total funding allocated should amount to EUR 774.5 million, about EUR 739.8 million of which is earmarked for childcare facilities (‘asili nido’) and EUR 34.7 million for additional services (‘sezioni primavera’: see http://www.governoinforma.it/). The updated national reform programme and report which Italy will present in autumn 2008 should provide updated information on measures carried out and planned. Under the Lisbon Strategy, the Commission will continue to monitor the situation closely in Italy and its regions, including Abruzzo, with a view to encouraging the provision of adequate, affordable, accessible childcare services. Nonetheless, action to implement the policy is a Member State responsibility, in conjunction, where appropriate, with the regional and local authorities.