(TEN-Energy) is closely linked to the proposed amendment of the rules for the granting of Community aid in this field COM(2002) 134 ; Report by Mr. Turchi ( A5-0188/2002 ), which was adopted in plenary on 2 July 2002; see also the opinion by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy (Draftsman: Mrs. Erika Mann) (Regulation (EC) 2236/95 of 18 September 1995 laying down general rules for the granting of Community financial aid in the field of trans-European networks). In December 2001 the Commission proposed an amendment to the current Regulation which provides for an increase in the maximum rate of Community subsidy from 10% to 20% of total costs for particular TEN projects which make an important contribution to the objectives of the Trans-European Networks but have a low level of profitability. Initially the proposal was limited to specific trans-European networks (cross-border rail bottlenecks, bottlenecks at borders with candidate countries, satellite positioning, navigation systems). On 12 March 2002 the Commission modified this proposal and extended it to ‘priority projects essential for completing the trans-European energy network’. The Commission stresses that there is no question of increasing appropriations in the energy sector, and that the proposal – unlike in the case of the trans-European transport networks – will not lead to any increase in the Community budget set aside in the financial perspectives for energy networks. For 2002 an amount of EUR 21 m is set aside for the trans-European energy infrastructure. Unfortunately the two proposals are neither dealt with in the same committee of the European Parliament nor at the same time which led to the situation whereby the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy had to give an opinion on the rules for the granting of Community financial aid in the field of TEN-energy before the EP had taken a decision on the guidelines including the priority projects for which an increase in the maximum rate of Community subsidy from 10% to 20% of total costs had been suggested. In its opinion on financial aid in the field of transeuropean energy networks the ITRE-committee adopted the following position which is of interest in the context of the present report: * The total amount of Community aid may exceptionally reach 20% of the total investment cost in the case of certain priority projects on the energy networks listed in the Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision No 1254/96/EC laying down a series of guidelines for trans- European energy networks. * In order to define these priority projects on the energy networks, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council listing and describing the measures on the energy networks which are likely, in the event of an increase in Community subsidy from 10% to 20%, to lead to more rapid completion of the relevant priority projects. * As a rule, only the development stage of priority projects on the energy networks should qualify for higher financial aid without this leading to any increase in the Community funds set