achievement which should be celebrated, he said. The nature of our societies had changed dramatically in 35 years, with communities of different races, faiths and histories now living together. We needed, he said, to promote a society based on true respect between individuals, cultures, faiths and races. "We have to defend our values of respect, tolerance, freedom, and democracy against any who wish to destroy or replace them with some other doctrine." Mr Clarke said part of the reason for public scepticism about the EU was a perception that it did not offer practical solutions to major problems such as terrorism and serious organised crime. The July attacks in London had shown that the threat of terrorism remains very real. "In our globalised world no single country can tackle these problems alone, even in their own country... The truth is that in each of these areas we will all, including within our own countries, achieve most by sharing experience, information and resources and by identifying, and then targeting, the threats systematically and consistently." He pointed to the practical steps taken at EU level, such as the European arrest warrant, rules on police and judicial cooperation and the work of Europol and Eurojust. However, he also stressed the importance of the use of intelligence to target, track, arrest and convict criminals who threaten the security and strength of our societies. While acknowledging that advocates of change must make the case for their proposals, he argued that proper rules on retention and accessibility of telecommunications data were an essential part of the fight against terrorism and serious organised crime. He also spoke of developments of the Schengen Information System, enabling date on wanted individuals to be exchanged and about the Visa Information System, which, combined with biometrics in passports, ID cards, visas and perhaps driving licences, would allow the identities of genuine travellers to be easily proved. There needed to be a clear legal basis for all exchanges of information with appropriate safeguards against abuse. Mr Clarke also called for a new examination of jurisprudence under the European Convention on Human Rights. He said he did not want to undermine the achievements of the ECHR, drawn up in very different circumstances, but he said the balance between individual rights and collective rights of safety and security needed to be considered. "Our strengthening of human rights needs to acknowledge a truth which we should all accept, that the right to be protected from torture and ill-treatment must be considered side by side with the right to be protected from the death and destruction caused by indiscriminate terrorism, sometimes caused, instigated or fomented by nationals from countries outside the EU." The right to safety and security was, he said, a fundamental concern for our citizens: "Here we can show that Europe can and does deliver real benefits. We in the EU have a responsibility to rise to that challenge. This not an area where we can fail them." Commissioner Franco FRATTINI opened his speech by saying that, " Our heart goes out to those who have