WRITTEN QUESTION E-3692/08 by Willy Meyer Pleite (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (2 July 2008) Subject: Pollution in the river Guadalquivir Since November the water in the final stretch of the river Guadalquivir has been extremely cloudy, and this is causing serious public concern as regards both the environmental impact and the impact on sectors of the economy that are vital for the area, such as tourism, aquaculture and farming. Scientific reports indicate that the 100 000 tonnes of mud that are making the waters of the Guadalquivir estuary so cloudy stem from soil erosion in the upper Guadalquivir river basin. A non-renewable resource — soil — is being irreversibly lost, and this is giving rise to a change in conditions in the Guadalquivir estuary that may have adverse effects on the river’s ecosystem. Furthermore, a significant rise in salinity has been detected in the river, for which the competent authorities have been unable to provide a coherent explanation. The cloudiness may be the result of poor farming practices in the Guadalquivir river basin, systematic failure to respect ecological flow rates at the Alcalá del Río dam, and the discharge of significant quantities of mud from large-scale projects, inter alia . The solution proposed by the competent authorities was to extract 50 cubic hectometres from the Alcalá del Río dam in the month of May. The aim of this action is to push the ‘salt plug’ back to the mouth of the river at Sanlúcar de Barrameda and allow the irrigation of 18 000 hectares of rice fields with a further 150 cubic hectometres. This irrigation does not comply with the drought plan drawn up by the Guadalquivir Hydrographical Confederation, since this year the dams in the general regulation system for the river basin are in an emergency situation (at 31.7 % of capacity), which would not make it possible to irrigate the rice fields. In its communication of 18 July 2007 (COM(2007)0414) on water scarcity and droughts in the EU, the Commission considers it important to apply the Water Framework Directive effectively and give priority to measures aimed at saving water. Directive 2000/60/EC OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1. establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy includes action to protect Community rivers and defines a set of good practices and measures to protect and restore water that the Member States must respect. — Is the Commission aware of the situation affecting the river Guadalquivir? Will it ask the Spanish authorities for information on the state of ecosystems in and near the river? — Does the Commission not consider it necessary to respect the drought plan and guarantee compliance with the ecological flow rates for the Guadalquivir? Does it not consider it necessary to draw up a comprehensive plan for the sustainable management of the Guadalquivir? — What steps will the Commission take to ensure compliance with European legislation on water and prevent similar occurrences in the future?