the funding from the EU Solidarity Fund was adopted by 613 votes in favour, 11 against and 17 abstentions. The UK application indicates the regions that were affected by the floods. These are: East Midlands, West Midlands, Yorkshire/Humber, South West England, Wales, Northern Ireland. Projects from all of these regions would be eligible for a share of the funding. Speaking in the debate in Strasbourg on Monday 10 March 2008: Richard ASHWORTH (South East, Conservative, EPP-ED, UK) said: "Much of this flooding happened in my region, and I can testify to the appalling damage and hardship which it brought on many residents of my area . I am aware that my friend and colleague Reimer Böge said that, of course, in the grand order of things it is not a great deal of money. Perhaps it is not, but as a gesture of solidarity, please believe me that it is well and truly appreciated, and on behalf of the people of that region." Linda McAVAN (Yorkshire and the Humber, Labour, PES, UK) said: "It is a small grant towards covering the huge costs of the damage done by the floods in the UK, but we are appreciative to our colleagues in the Committee on Budgets, who voted unanimously, and also to the Commission. I understand it was the quickest payment ever made: within seven months. Therefore, although many people have been suffering for a long time, it is progress compared with previous funds. We also understand that it is one of the largest payments ever made, and we are appreciative of that." Diana WALLIS (Yorkshire and the Humber, Liberal Democrat, ALDE, UK) said: "A sum of EUR 162 million: it seems to be uncontentious, but it is hugely important on several levels. As an MEP, I represent the area of Yorkshire and the Humber, hit, as Ms McAvan said, by floods last summer – cities, villages across our region devastated. Many individuals, even in the village down the road from me, are still out of their homes. Whilst we know that this payment may not change their situation overnight, it will go indirectly towards helping by relieving pressure on our Government’s own budget. The British people, my constituents, will now understand that European solidarity has a tangible and practical meaning. And that will apply, I think, to all of us in this House. As climate change does bite, we may all be in the situation of representing those who are victims of such natural disasters and may have, therefore, to lay claim to European solidarity." John WHITTAKER (North West, UKIP, IND/DEM) said: "I am pleased to know that Britain should receive money to help us with the cost of last year’s floods. We are all very happy that the EU has generously come to the aid of a Member State in difficulty. But it is not quite like that: first, the grant is only 3.5% of the cost of the damage – a gesture, as Mr Ashworth says – and, secondly, it is nine months after the event – and that is