domestic duties. SCIENCE AND RESEARCH Women are significantly under-represented at European level and they are only present in some scientific fields and completely absent in others. They are also very unevenly represented at all levels of the scientific hierarchy and have less chance of obtaining funding for research. Of the 500 000 researchers in Europe working in industry, only 50 000 are women. In the public sector (universities and research centres) the percentage fluctuates between a quarter and a third, while at the higher levels of responsibility, the figure is less than 12%. In industrial research the situation is even worse, and the new technology sector is the worst of all. In its resolution of 3 February 2000, the European Parliament stated that statistics should be analysed by gender and that a 40% target should be set for the minimum participation of women at all levels of implementation and management of research programmes. Parliament also called for the adoption of appropriate measures to allow women scientists to combine professional and private life and for aid to be granted to the candidate countries to encourage the promotion of scientific and technical skills among women. THE INTERNET Research has demonstrated differences in the way in which women and men use the Internet: men are far more interested in news, information of a sexual content and surfing. In general, women use the Internet as a tool for specific activities (to maintain contact with friends and relatives, to log into chatrooms and for information and shopping), instead of treating the Internet as a technology which they must master. Only in very few cases do women who use the Internet have any technical background or exercise authority. The right to communications must be recognised as a basic right without which women will be unable to play their due role in shaping society. There are some alarming data about the small percentage of women who use the Internet in the candidate countries, but these should be viewed against the background of the very low percentage of overall users. The figures for men and women, respectively, are: in Estonia 38% and 14%, in Poland 18.7% and 5.4%, in the Czech Republic 12% and 6.8% and in Lithuania 10% and 2.9%. The percentage of the overall population with access to the Internet is low and even insignificant, and women Internet users are chiefly drawn from the educated urban elite and are not representative of women in their respective countries. The increased privatisation both of the traditional media and the new technologies restricts access to those who can pay and this makes the Internet increasingly commercialised and controlled, which severely jeopardises any initiatives to overcome inequality between men and women and reduces the scope for using new technologies as a medium for the emancipation of women. The development of the future content and functions of the new technology must be a collective process in which women must not participate only as users, but also as planners and creators of the new technologies. PROPOSALS - POLICY MEASURES National and international policies in