{ "context": [ [ "John Maloney (U.S. politician)", [ "John F. Maloney (sometimes spelled Malony) (died 1918) was an Alaskan lawyer, businessman, and politician, including the first Mayor of Juneau, Alaska from 1905 to 1906.", " He came to Juneau in 1885, and by 1900 owned part the Porcupine Trading Company, after the 1898 Porcupine Gold Rush (), along with Jack Dalton and Ed Hanley." ] ], [ "Dome Mine", [ "Dome Mine is situated in the City of Timmins, Ontario, Canada; and was developed during the Porcupine Gold Rush." ] ], [ "Negus Mine", [ "Negus Mine was a gold producer at Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada, from 1939 to 1952.", " It produced 255,807 troy ounces (7956 kg) of gold from 490,808 tons of ore milled.", " The underground workings were acquired by adjacent Con Mine in 1953 and were used for ventilation purposes until Con Mine closed in 2003." ] ], [ "Crisson Mine", [ "Crisson Mine was a gold mine in Lumpkin County, Georgia, USA, located just east of Dahlonega.", " Like many mines in the area, the property probably started as a placer mine during the Georgia Gold Rush.", " Once the placer deposits had been exhausted, an open pit gold mine was established in 1847 and commercial operations continued until the early 1980s.", " A small stamp mill was also established here.", " Much of the gold used for the gold leaf dome of the Georgia State Capitol was mined at this mine, which was among the most productive mine in the Georgia Gold Belt.", " The mine is located just north of the site of the Consolidated Mine, which is itself north of and the Calhoun Mine." ] ], [ "Mount Baker Gold Rush", [ "The Mount Baker Gold Rush (1897 to mid 1920's) occurred in Whatcom County, Washington, United States, upon the discovery of the Lone Jack Mine.", " The Mount Baker area was flooded with prospectors which led to the staking of many claims both patented and unpatented.", " The most notable mines staked soon after the Lone Jack are the Boundary Red Mountain Mine, Garget Mine (a.k.a. Gold Run Mine), Gold Basin Mine, Silver Tip Mine, and the Evergreen Mine." ] ], [ "McIntyre Mines", [ "The McIntyre mine is an abandoned underground gold mine in Schumacher, Ontario, Canada, which has earned a place in Canadian mining history as one of the nation's most important mines.", " Its iconic headframe, located near downtown Timmins, has come to represent the entire Porcupine Gold Rush.", " The McIntyre also yielded a considerable amount of copper over its life." ] ], [ "Franklin-Creighton Mine", [ "The Franklin-Creighton Mine was a Georgia Gold Rush gold mine located off what is now Yellow Creek Road in the town of Ball Ground in Cherokee County, Georgia.", " The mine, located along the Etowah River, was initially known as the Franklin Mine because it was started by a widow, Mrs. Mary G. Franklin, who obtained a 40 acre lot in the Gold Lottery of 1832.", " Around 1883, the mine