the necessary data. Table A in the Annex shows that Denmark, France, Germany, Greece and Ireland do not provide data on the value of arms exports, whereas the Netherlands and Portugal do not submit data on the value of licences issued. This is a clear obstacle to complete transparency and parliamentarian control of EU arms exports. Another problem is the lack of compatibility of the data provided by each Member State. For example, Austria only provides data on ‘war material’, but not on ‘non-war material’ SIPRI Yearbook 2004, p. 471-472. . The breakdown of the denials by geographical region in the national reports of Italy, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom is a welcome development. The SIPRI Yearbook, however, points out correctly that the value of the data provided is problematic, as in some instances the sum of denials per region does not fit the total number of denials SIPRI Yearbook 2004, p. 471. . After intra-Community trade, the second largest number of export licences concerned are still the Balkan countries, Russia, the Ukraine and the Caucasus region. The total number of consultations initiated, at 68, and of consultations received, at 48, appear low in relation to the 411 denials and more than 36000 licences granted. Moreover, the number of denials decreased by 54, whereas the number of licences issued increased by more than 11000. 2) End-user certificates The only noteworthy development is that the "indication of the end-use of the goods" was included into the minimal details to be set out in an end-user certificate. However, the more ambitious recommendations of the previous annual report of the European Parliament have not been implemented. Yet, the setting up of a delivery verification and post-export monitoring regime for all exports under the Code of Conduct, including the possibility to impose penalties, remains important in order to control effectively the end-use of arms, of other military and security equipment and of licensed production abroad. As such a monitoring system may exceed the capacities of small states and of some of the new Member States, the Member States should again give serious consideration to the possibility of setting up a common EU monitoring system. A European arms export control agency could still be a suitable counterpart to the planned armaments agency in the area of production and procurement. 3) Arms brokering The Common Position on the control of arms brokering, which was adopted by the Council in June 2003, is an outstanding achievement. It includes a definition of brokering activities, the obligation to obtain a licence or written authorisation for brokering activities by the competent authorities, the exchange of information on arms brokering and the establishment of adequate sanctions. In order to improve the effectiveness of the Common Position, the authorisation to act as an arms broker and the registration of arms brokers should be compulsory. Moreover, the provisions of the Common Position, following the example of US legislation, should also be applicable to EU citizens and companies outside the territory of the EU. In this regard, the efforts of Austria, Belgium, Finland, France,