2020’ Communication http://europa.eu/press_room/pdf/complet_en_barroso___007_-_europe_2020_-_en_version.pdf , the Commission pledged to design new financing instruments, in particular in cooperation with the EIB/European Investment Fund and the private sector. This has now been put into concrete terms in the recently published Innovation Union Commission initiative. The concrete actions include the following: — on the basis of Commission proposals, the EU will put in place by 2014 financial instruments to close the market gaps in investing in research and innovation. In particular, the Commission will work with the EIB Group, national financial intermediaries and private investors to address the following critical gaps: (i) investment in knowledge transfer and start ups; (ii) venture capital for fast growing firms expanding on EU and global markets; (iii) risk-sharing finance for investments in Research and Development and innovation projects; and (iv) loans for innovative fast growing SMEs and midcaps; — the Commission will ensure that by 2012 venture capital funds established in any Member State can function and invest freely in the EU (if necessary by adopting a new legislative regime). It will endeavour to eliminate any tax treatment unfavourable to cross-border activities; — the Commission will strengthen cross-border matching of innovative firms with suitable investors. It will appoint a leading figure to lead the process. In addition, in the context of the SME Finance Forum, the Commission will focus inter alia on the particular financing problems faced by SMEs. At the same time, the Commission is continuing its efforts to implement the ‘Small Business Act for Europe’ http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/policies/sme/small-business-act/ and to put the ‘Think Small First’ principle into practice. The review of the Small Business Act will serve to help Member States create a more SME-friendly business environment for start-ups and bankruptcy procedures as well as to facilitate SMEs’ access to finance and markets. Furthermore, in October 2010 the Commission adopted a Communication on ‘An integrated industrial policy for the globalisation era — Putting competitiveness and sustainability at centre stage’ COM(2010)614 final. . There it establishes a work programme containing more than 70 measures and recommendations aiming at creating the best environment for maintaining and developing a strong, competitive and diversified industrial base in Europe, including measures to support SMEs’ access to finance.