so requests. 38. With a view to ensuring the presence of Members of the Commission, Parliament undertakes to do its best to maintain its final draft agendas. Where Parliament amends its final draft agenda, or where it moves items within the agenda within a part-session, Parliament shall immediately inform the Commission. The Commission shall use its best endeavours to ensure the presence of the Member of the Commission responsible. 39. The Commission may propose the inclusion of items on the agenda not later than the meeting of the Conference of Presidents that decides on the final draft agenda of a part-session. Parliament shall take the fullest account of such proposals. 40. As a general rule, the Member of the Commission responsible for an item under consideration in a parliamentary committee shall be present at the relevant committee meeting, when invited. Members of the Commission shall be heard at their request. Parliamentary committees shall seek to maintain their draft agendas and agendas. Whenever a parliamentary committee amends its draft agenda or its agenda, the Commission shall be immediately informed thereof. Where the presence of a Member of the Commission is not explicitly required at a parliamentary committee meeting, the Commission shall ensure that it is represented by a competent official at an appropriate level. VI. FINAL PROVISIONS 41. The two Institutions undertake to reinforce their cooperation in the field of information and communication. 42. The implementation of this Framework Agreement and its Annexes shall be assessed periodically by the two Institutions, and their revision shall be considered, in the light of practical experience, at the request of one of them. 43. This Framework Agreement shall be reviewed following the entry into force of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. Annex 1 : Forwarding of confidential information to the European Parliament 1. Scope 1.1. This Annex shall govern the forwarding to Parliament and the handling of confidential information from the Commission in connection with the exercise of parliamentary prerogatives concerning the legislative and budgetary procedures, the procedure for giving discharge and the exercise in general terms of Parliament's powers of scrutiny. The two Institutions shall act in accordance with their mutual duties of sincere cooperation, in a spirit of complete mutual trust and in the strictest conformity with the relevant Treaty provisions, in particular Articles 6 and 46 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 276 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 1.2. 'Information' shall mean any written or oral information, whatever the medium and whoever the author may 1.3. The Commission shall ensure that Parliament is given access to information, in accordance with the provisions of this Annex, whenever it receives from one of the parliamentary bodies set out in point 1.4. a request relating to the forwarding of confidential information. 1.4. In the context of this Annex, the following may request confidential information from the Commission: the President of Parliament, the chairperson of the parliamentary committees concerned, the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents. 1.5. Information on infringement procedures and procedures relating to competition, in so far as they