de Cué, vice-chairmen; Bashir Khanbhai, rapporteur; Gordon J. Adam (for Imelda Mary Read), Nuala Ahern, Konstantinos Alyssandrakis, Sir Robert Atkins, Luis Berenguer Fuster, Freddy Blak (for Marianne Eriksson), Gérard Caudron, Giles Bryan Chichester, Nicholas Clegg, Concepció Ferrer, Norbert Glante, Michel Hansenne, Malcolm Harbour (for John Purvis), Roger Helmer (for Angelika Niebler), Hans Karlsson, Werner Langen, Rolf Linkohr, Caroline Lucas, Eryl Margaret McNally, Erika Mann, Marjo Matikainen-Kallström, William Francis Newton Dunn (for Willy C.E.H. De Clercq), Josu Ortuondo Larrea (for Claude Turmes), Paolo Pastorelli, Elly Plooij-van Gorsel, Samuli Pohjamo (for Colette Flesch), Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl, Daniela Raschhofer, Carlos Ripoll i Martínez Bedoya (for Guido Bodrato, pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Mechtild Rothe, Paul Rübig, Esko Olavi Seppänen, Gary Titley, W.G. van Velzen, Alejo Vidal-Quadras Roca, Dominique Vlasto, and Olga Zrihen Zaari. The opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy is attached. The Committee on Budgets had decided on 13 September 2001 not to do an opinion. The report was tabled on 24 April 2002. DRAFT LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a Council decision concluding an agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the Republic of India ( COM(2001) 448 – C5‑0451/2001 – 2001/0175(CNS)) (Consultation procedure) The European Parliament , - having regard to the proposal for a Council decision ( COM(2001) 448 OJ C 304 E of 30.10.2001, p. 241. ), - having regard to the draft agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the Republic of India, - having regard to Articles 170 and 300(2), first subparagraph, of the EC Treaty, - having been consulted by the Council pursuant to Article 300(3), first subparagraph, of the EC Treaty ( C5‑0451/2001 ), - having regard to Rule 67 and Rule 97(7) of its Rules of Procedure, - having regard to the report of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy ( A5‑0137/2002 ), 1. Approves conclusion of the agreement; 2. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States and the Republic of India. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT With this Agreement on scientific and technological co-operation between the EC and India, India is after China, the Russian Federation and the Argentine Republic the latest country to link its Research activities to those of the EC. Co-operation between EU and India in the context of research is however nothing new. In the context of the "Co-operation for development" programme of the EU's research Framework Programmes, the Community and India already carried out research together. In the last six years, the EU has supported 42 projects. Under the 4th and 5th Research Framework Programme, a total of 53 projects have been funded. The EU is India´s largest trading partner and biggest foreign investor. Yet, trade and investment between them is well below what it should be! India allocates € 2.5bn (0.72% of its GDP) to research and technological development