report. It must be stressed, however, that the Commission failed to supervise the work of the external consultants in a way that would have ensured a satisfactory analysis of the Member States' transposition of the Third life Directive. *** There seems to be a consensus of opinion on the need for all European institutions to give more serious consideration to the question of monitoring implementation See specially European Parliament Resolution on Monitoring the application of Community Law ( 2003-2004) and EP Resolution on the implementation, consequences and impact of the internal market legislation in force, both adopted on 16 May 2006. See also the European Commission's 21st and 22nd annual reports ( COM(2004)0839 and COM(2005)0570 ). , both in terms of transposition as well as application. The correct application of the Community law is a central element of the EU's institutional system. It is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of European regulations and of the respect of equality between the Member States. Moreover, it guarantees that companies, consumers and citizens can exercise the rights that they derive from European law in a rapid and effective way. Correct and swift implementation of European legislation is an integral and essential part of the “Better regulation” strategy, which has been put at the heart of the re-launched Lisbon Agenda for jobs and growth in 2005. The aim is to improve EU policies by strengthening their transparency, coherence, effectiveness and efficiency, while at the same time boosting public participation and accountability in the process of their development. Efforts to improve the regulatory environment will only produce the expected results if European regulations are applied correctly and effectively. The current approach to monitoring implementation is still too often characterised by a narrow focus on formal legal transposition. What is needed instead is a continuous hands-on approach to implementation by EU institutions throughout the various stages of the process of translating the intentions of the EU legislators into practical effects for European citizens. Thus, a new concept of dynamic transposition implies that the monitoring of implementation needs to be done over a longer period of time and not just as a mere one-off box-ticking exercise, as is too often the case. More importantly, the original will and intention of the legislator must be respected. In fact, the objective of ensuring effective implementation should be taken into account as early as the stages of drafting and adopting legislation. This has been recognised by the 'better regulation agenda' but continuous efforts are needed to ensure that EU legislation becomes clearer and simpler to implement. Problems of transposition and implementation often result from poorly drafted legislative texts. Thus, European legislative authorities have an important responsibility in this regard and should therefore avoid complicated and unclear compromises in negotiations. For example, textual ambiguities generate legal uncertainties and discrepancies when texts are transposed into national law, with the potential for distortion of competition and fragmentation of the internal market. It would therefore be desirable that all the community bodies involved in the lawmaking process take into account the potential difficulties of application of