social service society Investing in people must be at the forefront of any growth initiative. A modern economy can only be competitive if it has a highly skilled and adaptable workforce. Human capital is the most precious asset of the European Union and has so far been neglected. Decreasing labour productivity is an alarming sign that the European Union does not provide sufficient education and training for its human resources, which stands in total contrast with the target of a knowledge based economy, more and better jobs and to become the most competitive area in the World by the year 2010. There is an urgent need to improve quality in work which goes hand in hand with progress towards full employment, higher productivity growth and better social cohesion and is one of the overarching objectives in the Employment Guidelines for the period 2003-2005 and points at the relevance of the ten specific guidelines supporting these objectives, notably those on lifelong learning, gender equality, adaptability, making work pay, inclusion and undeclared work. At present, the European Union suffers from a high drop out rate at schools, vocational training that lacks quality and attractiveness and a considerably lower share of the population having concluded secondary and tertiary education as compared to the USA. Any strategy aiming at a knowledge-based society has to begin by improving education and training. Life-long training has to be made a reality and all actors concerned need to be involved in drawing up a lifelong learning strategy, urgently needed also in order to enable people to stay in work in view of prolonging working life and because of the need to increase productivity and innovation to stay competitive. The skills and employment strategy should give special attention to women, older workers and immigrants. The establishment of a social service society is a further instrument to increase employment participation, as part of an answer to the challenge of the ageing and knowledge-based society and economy and to improve the conciliation of working and family life for men and women. The rapporteur invites Member States and the Commission to introduce and elaborate these missing elements into the growth initiative, setting up a roadmap with concrete targets and deadlines to achieve and to reinforces co-operation and benchmarking. In this context the rapporteur invites the Member States to cut down the drop-out rate at school to 10%, to improve the quality and attractiveness of vocational training and to increase the share of population to have completed secondary and post-secondary education to 50% and in tertiary education to 35% by 2010. She encourages Member States to create incentives for the private sector sector to increase its financial contribution and invites, in particular, SMEs to take up their corporate social responsibility, to invest more in life-long learning of their employees and to improve the quality of work. Research, Development and Innovation The rapporteur calls for an urgent mobilisation of investment for R&D by 8% per year with an increase of 1% of GDP public investment and 2% of GDP private investment in order to achieve the