Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (2 October 2008) The Commission is aware of the use of asbestos cement (AC) water pipes, which contain white asbestos (chrysotile) in Greece. There is information available from the World Health Organisation that has carried various reports on AC pipes and human health. The Commission is not, however, aware of possible contamination of drinking water distributed by AC pipes in Greece. The use of new asbestos products (including new drinking water pipelines) is banned by Community legislation Commission Directive 1999/77/EC of 26 July 1999 adapting to technical progress for the sixth time Annex I to Council Directive 76/769/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (asbestos), OJ L 207, 6.8.1999. . Existing water pipes are not covered by this legislation and, therefore, still allowed under Community law. Based on existing scientific research and knowledge, the Commission is of the view that there is no reason for concern. The excess gastrointestinal mortalities noted in workers and in populations exposed to drinking water were usually quite small (from an epidemiological point of view), the follow-up period was of insufficient duration and consistent results were not found across studies. Also, it is very difficult to determine whether the excesses are due to asbestos or to other factors (exposure to other chemicals, misdiagnosis, dietary factors, alcohol intake, etc.). It should be added that, under the Drinking Water Directive Council Directive 98/83/EC of 3 November 1998 on the quality of water intended for human consumption, OJ L 330, 5.12.1998. , Member States must take all necessary actions to ensure that drinking water is wholesome and clean and is free from any substances which constitute a potential danger to health. They must in particular take all measures necessary to ensure that no substances or materials for new installations used in the distribution of drinking water or impurities associated with such substances remain in drinking water and that they do not reduce the protection of human health. The replacement of old pipes falls under the responsibility of the Member States. The Operational Programme ‘Sustainable Development and Competitiveness’ 2007‑13 Co-funded by Cohesion Fund (CF) and European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). foresees actions in the sector of water management. In particular, the replacement of water supply pipelines can be co-financed by the Cohesion Fund. If the Greek authorities so wish, they may include projects to replace pipes by using this Programme.