take effect from the first day of the first part-session of the seventh parliamentary term. 1. Questions for written answer shall: - fall within the competence and sphere of responsibility of the institution concerned and be of general interest; - be concise and contain an understandable interrogation; - not contain offensive language; - not relate to strictly personal matters. 2. If a question does not comply with these guidelines, the Secretariat shall provide the author with advice on how the question may be drafted in order to be admissible. 3. If an identical or similar question has been put and answered during the preceding six months, the Secretariat shall transmit a copy of the previous question and answer to the author. The renewed question shall not be forwarded to the institution concerned unless the author invokes new significant developments or is seeking further information. 4. If a question seeks factual or statistical information that is already available to Parliament's library, the latter shall inform the Member, who may withdraw the question. 5. Questions concerning related matters may be answered together. ANNEX III Guidelines and general principles to be followed when choosing the subjects to be included on the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law provided for under Rule 115 Fundamental principles 1. Priority shall be given to motions for resolutions intended to lead to a vote in Parliament directed at the Council, the Commission, the Member States, third countries or international bodies, before a particular event, provided that the current part-session is the only part-session of the European Parliament at which a vote can be held in time. 2. Motions for resolutions shall not exceed 500 words. 3. Subjects relating to the responsibilities of the European Union as laid down by the Treaty shall be given priority, provided they are of major importance. 4. The number of subjects chosen shall be such as to allow a debate commensurate with their importance and should not exceed three, including sub-chapters. Practical details 5. The fundamental principles applied in determining the choice of subjects to be included in the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law shall be notified to Parliament and the political groups. Limitation and allocation of speaking time 6. In order to make better use of the time available, the President, after consulting the political group chairs, shall reach agreement with the Council and Commission on the limitation of the speaking time for their respective statements, if any, in the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Deadline for tabling amendments 7. The deadline for tabling amendments shall allow sufficient time between their distribution in the official languages and the time set for the debate on the motions for resolutions to enable Members and political groups to give them due consideration. ANNEX IV Implementing procedures for examination of the general budget of the European Union and supplementary budgets Article 1 Working documents 1. The following documents shall