WRITTEN QUESTION E-1470/10 by Luigi de Magistris (ALDE) to the Commission (11 March 2010) Subject: Compliance by EU Commissioner with code of conduct On 18 February 2010, in connection with a recent public procurement scandal in Italy involving the Italian Head of Civil Protection, Guido Bertolaso, the daily newspaper La Repubblica published on its website part of the transcript of a telephone conversation intercepted by the Florence Ros (carabinieri special operations unit) in charge of the investigation, in which Antonio Tajani, Commission Vice-President responsible for industry, is mentioned by name. It emerges from the transcript published on the journal’s website that, on 7 March 2010, Gianni Letta, Undersecretary for the Prime Minister’s Office, contacted Bertolaso to pass on information divulged in a telephone call from Tajani regarding impending proceedings against Italy for infringement of environmental standards on the island of Maddalena (Sardinia). The extract reads: ‘He (Tajani — ed. ) has found out that Dimas (Commission responsible for the environment — ed. ) plans to initiate infringement proceedings regarding Maddalena and intends to announce this on Wednesday or Thursday.’ If this is true, does the Commission not consider that Commissioner Tajani is failing to fulfil the fundamental duty of all Commissioners regarding independence and autonomy vis-à-vis their Member States of origin under Article 17(3) (TITLE III — PROVISIONS ON THE INSTITUTIONS) of the consolidated version of the Treaty on European Union (TEU)? The relevant provision reads as follows: ‘The members of the Commission shall be chosen on the ground of their general competence and European commitment from persons whose independence is beyond doubt. In carrying out its responsibilities, the Commission shall be completely independent. Without prejudice to Article 18(2), the members of the Commission shall neither seek nor take instructions from any Government or other institution, body, office or entity. They shall refrain from any action incompatible with their duties or the performance of their tasks.’ If the above information proves to be accurate, what sanctions will it impose on the Commissioner concerned?