2004/C 78 E/279 WRITTEN QUESTION E-3395/03 by Olivier Dupuis (NI) to the Commission (17 November 2003) Subject: Freedom of movement for Kosovo citizens in the EU and the final status of Kosovo Under EU legislation, Kosovo citizens have no legal means of moving, whether short term or long term, within the territory of the Union's Member States in search of employment. (The Western Balkans and the European Union: Liberalising Movement of Persons', ILPA, Immigration Law Practitioners' Association, UK, March 2003). This means that there is no short-term prospect of resolving the problem of the powder keg represented by mass unemployment in Kosovo. In this connection, the former Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General in Kosovo, Michael Steiner, has stated that the astronomical unemployment rate and devastating poverty in Kosovo are obstacles to lasting peace in the region. (SRSG, 2002). The distinguished Balkan specialist, Misha Glenny, wrote in the Guardian of 9 September 2003 that unless we find a way, as a matter of extreme urgency, of achieving controlled release of the pressure which has been building in Kosovo since 1999, we will be facing a very real danger of explosion in the near future. While the final constitutional status of Kosovo remains, unfortunately, in suspense, no outside investment in the Kosovo economy is possible. (From this point of view, the impasse in which the EU and the UN find themselves with regard to the chaotic situation of legislation on property rights is only the most recent example of these difficulties (Institute of War and Peace Reporting, October 2003). These factors, in combination with the drastic reduction in opportunities of finding employment in the EU, condemn Kosovo to destitution on an indefinite basis. Under these circumstances, the EP resolution of 5 June 2003, expressing Parliament's lively concern regarding the economic and social situation in the Western Balkans, and calling for maximum priority to be given to eliminating the visa obligations for the EU, is quite particularly urgent in the case of Kosovo. What are the Commission's proposals with regard to getting rid of visa obligations for the citizens of Kosovo, a small country devastated by war? What are the Commission's proposals with regard to Kosovo's final constitutional status?