to revise the current criteria of HIPC; 26. In the context of HIPC, further regrets that the EU negotiators lend their support to watering down demands for debt sustainability analysis to take into account each country's capacity to raise the finance needed to achieve the Millennium development goals, as well as the demand that eligibility criteria need to be more flexible (§43); 27. Takes note with disapproval that the EU negotiators suggested erasing the notion of debt cancellation from the final text (§42); 28. Notes an appeal to the IMF and World Bank to develop more flexibility in debt relief for countries hit by catastrophes or conflict (§44); considers, however, that the Monterrey Consensus remains utterly below expectations in not showing any clear sign of opening international debt reduction policy to non-HIPC countries; 29. Calls on the EU Member States to agree on an immediate moratorium on debt servicing for all those countries belonging to the group of HIPCs and/or LDCs and to waive all remaining bilateral debts for those countries; 30. Demands that the criteria for acceptable debt be redefined to give priority to the financing of national poverty eradication programmes, with only part of the remaining state revenue then being used for debt servicing and repaying loans; 31. Welcomes the Monterrey appeal to donor countries to ensure that resources provided for debt relief are additional to existing ODA resources (§45), and calls on the EU to reaffirm its commitment to this principle through a Council decision; Systemic issues 32. Welcomes the proposal for an international debt workout mechanism (§ 53) as a first step in the direction of a much-needed fair and transparent arbitration procedure for indebted countries, and calls on the EU to come forward with a concrete initiative for the Monterrey Summit; 33. Equally welcomes the commitment by the parties to negotiate a UN convention against corruption, including the question of repatriation of funds illicitly acquired to countries of origin, and to promote stronger cooperation to eliminate money laundering (§58a); 34. Underlines, in view of the global rebalancing of power after 11 September, the priority attached by the parties to reinvigorating the UN system and the strengthening of the Economic and Social Council (§59); 35. Welcomes the fact that a certain continuity for FfD is foreseen through a two-yearly follow-up process; regrets, however, that most references to the involvement of civil society in this context have been eliminated from the final text; 36. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission and to Mr Escanero, the Facilitator for the UN Conference on FfD.