it complies with the conditions for the issuance of credit ratings set out in this Regulation. Amendment 83 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. Competent authorities may not impose additional requirements on the registration which are not provided for in this Regulation. 5. The CESR shall not impose additional requirements on the registration which are not provided for in this Regulation. Amendment 84 Proposal for a regulation Article 13 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Within 10 days of receipt of the application, CESR shall transmit the application to the competent authority of the home Member State and inform the competent authorities of the other Member States of that transmission . 3. Within 10 days of receipt of the application, the CESR shall inform the competent authorities of the Member States thereof . Amendment 85 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Within 10 days of receipt of the application for registration, the competent authority of the home Member State shall check whether the application is complete. 1. Within 10 days of receipt of the application for registration, the CESR shall check whether the application is complete. Amendment 86 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment In case the application is not complete, the competent authority of the home Member State shall set a deadline by which the credit rating agency shall provide additional information. In case the application is not complete, the CESR shall set a deadline by which the credit rating agency shall provide additional information. Amendment 87 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Upon receipt of a complete application, the competent authority of the home Member State shall transmit the application to the competent authorities of the other Member States and CESR . 2. Upon receipt of a complete application, the CESR shall transmit the application to the competent authorities of the Member States. Amendment 88 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. In case an application for registration is submitted by a group of credit rating agencies the competent authorities of the home Member States concerned shall closely co-operate in the registration process. They shall select among themselves a facilitator taking into account the following criteria: deleted (a) the place where the group of credit rating agencies carries out or is planning to carry out the most important part of its credit rating activity within the Community; (b) the place where the group of credit rating agencies generates or can be expected to generate the major part of the revenue of the group. Amendment 89 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The facilitator shall coordinate the examination of the application submitted by the group of credit rating agencies and ensure that all