14.11.2006 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Romano Maria La Russa, Michał Tomasz Kamiński, Adam Jerzy Bielan, Mieczysław Edmund Janowski, on behalf of the UEN Group on the situation of human rights in Iran European Parliament resolution on the situation of human rights in Iran The European Parliament , – having regard to its previous resolutions on the Islamic Republic of Iran, – having regard to the declaration of July 26 2006 by the Council of the European Union on the freedom of expression in the IR of Iran and the status of human rights defenders, – having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas, since 2005, the human rights situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran has deteriorated dramatically, with an escalation of violence against groups not previously targeted and rising persecution of all dissidents, leading to a climate of fear, B. whereas those who take a stand in defence of basic rights are harassed and victimized, C. whereas former MP Sayed Ali Mousavi, rapporteur on the prison situation in Iran during his mandate, was arrested on 12 June 2006 during a peaceful demonstration in Teheran, tortured during his period of imprisonment, not allowed to attend the funeral of his father and released only on 22 October 2006, D. whereas the well known intellectual Ramin Jahanbegloo was detained from 28 April to 30 August 2006, accused of spying and of taking part in a US attempt to carry out a velvet revolution in Iran, E. whereas the number of executions resulting from the application of the death penalty also for minor crimes or, much worse, for political reasons or conversion from Islam and for some cases of homosexuality has dramatically increased, F. whereas the Islamic Republic of Iran is the only country, with Pakistan, to make use of the death penalty against minors - e.g. the case of 16 year old Ateqeh Rajabi in 2004 and an unnamed 17 year old boy on 13 May 2006, G. whereas, according to Reporters Without Borders, Iran remains the Middle East's biggest prison for journalists and bloggers with 13 jailed during 2005, 16 since the beginning of 2006 and the death in mysterious circumstances of a journalist earlier this year, H. whereas even members of the clergy opposing Iran's theocratic regime are at risk, as witnessed by the case of Ayatollah Sayed Bouroujerdi, who was arrested with his followers in October 2006 and who are still detained, possibly at the Evin prison, I. whereas despite constitutional guarantees of equality members of various minorities, religious and ethnic groups are subject to discriminatory laws and practises, J. whereas the restrictions on women's rights, particularly outside of urban centres, remain manifold and in the current year two peaceful gathering in Teheran to protest against discrimination against Iranian women led to the arrest of several dozen activists detained in the Evin prison in