enable consumers to make a more informed decision when purchasing a product. Amendment 20 ARTICLE 1, POINT 6a (new) Article 9a (new) (Directive 97/68/EC) (6a) A new Article 9a is inserted as follows: "Article 9a The use of defeat devices or irrational emission control strategies shall be prohibited." Justification In the same way as Directive 2001/27/EC applies to heavy goods vehicles, this principle must also apply to non-road mobile machinery so as not to take limit values and test provisions to the point of the absurd. Amendment 21 ARTICLE 1, POINT 7 Article 10, paragraph 1 and 3 (Directive 97/68/EC) (7) In Article 10 the following paragraph 3 is added: (7) Article 10 is amended as follows: (a) the following indents are inserted at the end of paragraph 1: "- engines for use in machines intended primarily for the launch and recovery of lifeboats - engines for use in machines intended primarily for the launch and recovery of traditional vessels such as cobles, identified on a register compiled by the Commission - engines for use in machines used in harvesting and other specialised applications the annual operating hours of which is limited by the seasonality of their use, in the case of Stage IV only." (b) the following paragraph 3 is added: "3. Engines may be placed on the market under a "flexible scheme" in accordance with the provisions in Annex XIII." "3. Engines may be placed on the market under a "flexible scheme" in accordance with the provisions in Annex XIII." Justification At a limited number of locations, tractor engines are used to launch and recover "cobles" (traditional clinker-built open fishing boats with an awning at one end) and other small fishing craft. The tractors used to launch and recover these fishing boats travel very short distances (no more than 1km maximum) as they are only used to transport the boats to the water's edge. Given the small number of vehicles in question (approx. 200 in the UK) and their limited use, they are negligible as an emissions source and their exemption would have no appreciable impact on overall emissions. Some machines, for example, combine harvesters, self-propelled forage harvesters and airport snow ploughs are used for a limited season only. The cost of compliance with stage IV would be disproportionately high in relation to their annual usage and the emissions produced. Amendment 22 ARTICLE 2 The Commission shall, not later than 31 December 2006 The Commission shall, not later than 31 December 2006 – consider the available technology with a view to confirming Stage III B limit values and evaluating the possible need for additional flexibilities, exemptions or later introduction dates for certain types of equipment or engines, – consider the available technology with a view to confirming Stage IV limit values and evaluating the possible need for additional flexibilities, exemptions or later introduction dates for certain types of equipment or engines, – evaluate the need to use a separate test procedure for railway applications, – evaluate the need to use a separate test procedure for railway applications, – evaluate the