Answer given by Commissioner Füle on behalf of the Commission (3 March 2011) The EU’s policy regarding East Jerusalem is clearly set out in the Foreign Affairs Council Conclusions of December 2009, which were reiterated in December 2010. The EU will not recognise any changes to the pre-1967 borders including with regard to Jerusalem other than those agreed by the parties. The Conclusions further state that the Council has never recognised the annexation of East Jerusalem and that ‘if there is to be a genuine peace, a way must be found through negotiations to resolve the status of Jerusalem as the future capital of two states’. In line with this stance, the EU has also progressively increased its assistance to East Jerusalem in order to improve the quality of life of Palestinian Jerusalemites. Concerning the confidential report by EU Heads of Missions on East Jerusalem, this report has been discussed within the EU. Most of the recommendations included in the report are already being implemented by a large number of the Member States. The Member States agree on the majority of the recommendations to be implemented by Member states in due course. The ultimate aim is to agree on a common approach to issues that reflect the EU’s long-standing position on East Jerusalem as outlined in the Council Conclusions mentioned above. The implementation of agreed recommendations does not in any way prejudge an outcome to be found through negotiations to resolve the status of Jerusalem as the future capital of two states. On the issue of settlement products, a consistent policy has been applied by the European Commission, since 2005, and jointly by Commission services and the EEAS since 1 January 2011. It was confirmed in February 2010 by the Brita ruling of the European Court of Justice. This policy ensures that products originating from Israeli settlements in the occupied territories do not benefit from the preferential trade regime established under the EU‑Israel Association Agreement. A Technical Arrangement adopted by the EU‑Israel Customs Cooperation Committee provides for the indication of the name and postal code of the city, village or industrial zone where production has taken place to be indicated on all preferential documents of origin issued in Israel for export to the EU. On this basis, the Technical Arrangement is implemented by the customs authorities of EU Member States, who check the abovementioned proofs of origin and they apply a preferential tariff regime only to those imports that originate in the State of Israel within its internationally recognised borders. The question of labelling is very different in nature from that of rules of origin. The rules and procedures related to labelling are meant to provide correct information to the customer. Labelling of goods is an essential part of the EU’s consumer policy, in which the general principle is the voluntary character of indication of the place of origin on products. It remains the competence of the national authorities and the courts of Member States to apply and enforce EC law in conformity with Directive 2000/13/EC http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2000:109:0029:0042:EN:PDF .