of Congo, Gabon, Indonesia, Liberia, Malaysia and Vietnam are underway. On 20 October 2010, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 995/2010 laying down the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market. OJ L 295, 12.11.2010, p. 23. It prohibits the placing on the internal market of illegally harvested timber or timber products derived from such timber. Traders shall, throughout the supply chain, be able to identify the operators or the traders who have supplied the timber and timber products, and where applicable, the traders to whom they have supplied timber and timber products. Moreover, the Regulation introduces a due diligence system requiring operators who place timber or timber products on the internal market for the first time to exercise due diligence through a system comprising three elements inherent to risk management (access to information - risk assessment procedures - mitigation of the risk identified incorporating measures and procedures). Regarding sanctions, the EU Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. Sanctions must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive and may take the form of fines proportionate to the environmental damage, the value of the timber or timber products concerned and the tax losses and economic detriment resulting from the infringement; seizure of the timber and timber products concerned; or the immediate suspension of authorisation to trade. Conclusion According to OECD estimates, each year an area of original forest covering the size of Greece is lost, threatening irreplaceable biodiversity with extinction and increasing the risk of global warming. Although it is more than 20 years since the 1 st ITTA was concluded, over-exploitation and illegal logging remain widespread. Almost half of all logging activities in regions such as the Amazon, Congo Basin, South East Asia and Russia are illegal. The Council of EU and the EU Commission support the ITTA, 2006, which they believe addresses the most pressing issues of the timber industry. The ITTO will continue its work on issues such as deforestation and illegal logging, but more can be done on strengthening the forest law enforcement, like the abovementioned additional measures adopted by the EU illustrate. In the meantime, your Rapporteur welcomes this agreement and proposes that Parliament gives its consent. Parliament and the current proposal The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon has conferred increased powers on Parliament regarding international trade agreements. Point 19 of the Framework Agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission OJ C 117 E, 18.5.2006, p. 123. states that "In connection with international agreements, including trade agreements, the Commission shall provide early and clear information to Parliament both during the phase of preparation of the agreements and during the conduct and conclusion of international negotiations. This information covers the draft negotiating directives, the adopted negotiating directives, the subsequent conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of the negotiations". The above information "shall be provided to Parliament in sufficient time for it to