Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (5 October 2011) In relation to the medicinal product Protelos, an inspection of the pharmacovigilance systems of the producer Servier was carried out in December 2009 at the request of the European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). Such inspections are one of a series of escalating actions available to the Agency and national authorities to ensure that companies are in compliance with their legal obligations. The inspection findings raised concerns about the company’s pharmacovigilance system, with the potential to have impact on the conduct of pharmacovigilance not just for Protelos, but also for other medicines. Based on further information requested from Servier in June 2010, the CHMP concluded that the benefit-risk profile remained positive for centrally-approved medicines and that there was no need for suspension of the EU marketing authorisations. Member State competent authorities looked at nationally-approved products and also concluded that benefit-risk profile of the reviewed medicines remained positive. The Agency continues to monitor Servier's corrective and preventive action plan and a re-inspection was conducted in July 2011 at the Agency’s request. The final inspection report and the evaluation of its findings are expected in the fourth quarter of 2011, and appropriate follow-up, including re-inspection or other action, will be decided once this has been assessed by the Agency. In general, the safety of a medicinal product in the EU is evaluated at the time of marketing authorisation, followed by its surveillance in the pharmacovigilance system by the competent authorities of the Member States and the marketing authorisation holder. To strengthen the EU pharmacovigilance with a clear focus on public health protection and introduction of a proactive approach, new EU pharmaceutical legislation has been adopted in December 2010. Following the Mediator case, the Commission has identified possible weaknesses in the new legislation and is preparing a legislative change in the context of the amended proposals on information to patients.