same approach as the rest of the other institutions, the fundamental elements of which should be: – that a formal meeting be held between representatives of the Council and Parliament's Committee responsible for the discharge procedure, to be attended by the Secretary-General of the Council and the Presidency in office, the bureau of the Committee responsible for the discharge procedure, the rapporteur and the members representing political groups (coordinators and/or shadow rapporteurs) in order to provide all the necessary information on the implementation of the Council budget, – that the Secretary-General of the Council answer questions submitted to the Council by the Committee responsible for the discharge procedure; and – that a timetable be established so as to streamline and stabilise this interim solution; thus considers the idea of concluding an interinstitutional agreement with the Council on the Council's discharge to be unnecessary; 9. Urges the Court of Auditors to perform an in-depth assessment of supervisory and control systems in the Council, similar to the assessments it performed on the Court of Justice, the European Ombudsman and the European Data Protection Supervisor in the course of preparation of the Court of Auditors' Annual Report concerning the financial year 2009; 10. Takes note of the budgetary constraints many Member States face as a result of the financial and economic crisis and the need to critically review savings potentials at all levels, including at Union level; Reasons for postponement of the discharge decision 11. Indicates that the reasons for postponement are as follows: (a) the Council has not accepted any invitation to officially and formally meet Parliament's Committee responsible for the discharge procedure or its rapporteur to discuss matters concerning the Council budget execution for 2009, (b) the Council refused to provide a written answer providing Parliament with the information and documents requested from the Council in the annex to a letter of 14 December 2010 signed by the rapporteur, (c) Parliament has not received fundamental documents from the Council, such as the full list of budgetary transfers; Further actions to be taken by the Council 12. Calls on the Secretary-General of the Council to provide Parliament's Committee responsible for the discharge procedure, by 15 June 2011 at the latest, with comprehensive written answers to the following questions: (a) with regard to previous Council discharge debates in Parliament's Committee responsible for the discharge procedure, the Council did not attend these meetings regularly, however, it is considered of utmost importance that the Council attends in order to reply to committee members' questions referring to the Council discharge. Does the Council agree to attend future debates in Parliament's Committee responsible for the discharge procedure on the Council discharge? (b) why does the Council change the presentation/the format of the internal audit every year? Why is the internal audit so short, generic and unclear every year? Will the Council for the 2010 discharge onwards please present the internal audit in (a) language(s) other than French? (c) has an external audit been carried out? If so, may Parliament's Committee responsible for the discharge procedure see it? If an