positive outcome with Council and Commission. The rapporteur believes it would in the current human rights situation not be appropriate for the EP to give its consent without getting changes in Uzbekistan and in EU policies. The rapporteur wants to enter into dialogue with the Council and the Commission to obtain these changes so that the EP can reconsider at a later stage to give its consent to the Protocol amending the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement (PCA). Textiles and the PCA The PCAs were concluded with the countries of the former Soviet Union at the end of the nineties, when textiles were still a sensitive issue in international trade. Until 1995, textile and clothing quotas were negotiated bilaterally and governed by the rules of the Multi-Fibre Arrangement (MFA). This provided for the quantitative restrictions when surges in imports of particular products caused, or threatened to cause, serious damage to the industry of the importing country. Between 1995 and 2005, import quotas were gradually phased out. Since the EU had a bilateral agreement with Uzbekistan, the EU decided to include Article 16 in the PCA, explicitly excluding textiles from the PCA. For other sectors, the PCA provided for mutual most favoured nation status. At the end of the transition period for textile import quotas were forbidden. Only import tariffs were allowed. The EU gave, as a general rule, Most-Favoured Nation status to non-WTO members in terms of tariffs; this included Uzbekistan. Many WTO members do the same. Uzbekistan as non-WTO member, on the other hand, does not have the obligation to bind its tariffs. It has the freedom to increase (or decrease) its tariffs as it pleases. This leads to considerable uncertainty amongst EU textile exporters. By including textiles in the PCA, textiles would fall under the title ‘trade in goods’. That title foresees the according of the MFN status, trade free of quantitative restrictions, the principle of free transit, trade at market related pries, a safeguard clause and prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security. For other countries, such as Tajikistan, the PCA foresaw the automatic deletion of the Article in cases where the bilateral agreement lapsed. This was not the case for Uzbekistan. At the moment, Article 16 is still valid, so textiles are still excluded from the PCA. Explicit deletion of Article 16 is needed to include textiles in the PCA. The protocol on the table today does just that. Uzbekistan is not the only case. The EU also concluded PCA amending protocols with Azerbaijan (2007) and Kazakhstan (2008). The protocol and forced child labour The rapporteur understands that this protocol is beneficial to EU exporters since it creates legal certainty for them. In economic terms, however, this agreement should not be overestimated. The value of EU textile export to Uzbekistan is EUR 16.4 million - 0.05% of total EU textile export. Moreover, an agreement with Uzbekistan in the textile sector cannot be treated as a separate technical matter. The fact that the Economist Intelligence Unit