Answer given by Ms Hübner on behalf of the Commission (8 December 2006) According to information from the managing authority for the Saxon Operational Programme 2000–06 (Saxon State Ministry for Economy and Labour, Unit 15 Managing Authority for the EU Structural Funds, Wilhelm-Buck-Strasse 2, 01097 Dresden), the construction of the federal road B 178 (new) is not being co-financed with European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) Funds under this Programme. The Project does not receive funds from the Operational Programme for Transport Infrastructure in the German Objective 1 regions either. According to information from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) responsible authority for the Saxon Operational Programme 2000–06 (Sächsisches Staatsministerium für Umwelt und Landwirtschaft, Referat 23 — Förderstrategie, Archivstr. 1, 01075 Dresden), the construction of the federal road B 178 (new) is not being co-financed with EAGGF‑funds under this programme. The Commission has not yet received the classification as SPA Special protected area under the Birds Directive. for the site, ‘Feldgebiete in der östlichen Oberlausitz’. However, in the Framework of an infringement procedure against Germany for not having classified sufficient sites under the Birds Directive Council Directive 79/409/EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds, OJ L 103, 25.4.1979. (case 2001/5117), the German authorities have indicated that further site designations for Saxony will arrive in due time. To the Commission's knowledge the above site will be part of that designation. For sites that have not been classified as SPA (but should have been classified according to Article 4(1) of the Birds Directive) the provisions of Article 4(4) of the Birds Directive apply, which establish a strict protection regime, prohibiting any significant deterioration of habitats or disturbance of bird species mentioned in Annex I of the directive. However, after the classification of such a site as an SPA, the protection regime changes and the provisions of Article 6(3) and (4) of the Habitats Directive apply Directive 92/43/EC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora, OJ L 206, 22.7.1992. . If the project is likely to have a significant effect on the site ‘Feldgebiete in der östlichen Oberlausitz’, either individually or in combination with other plans or projects, it must then be subject to an appropriate assessment of its implications for the site. It may be authorised only if it has been ascertained that it will not adversely affect the integrity of the site concerned, or, in the absence of alternative solutions, if it must be carried out for imperative reasons of overriding public interest. In that case, compensatory measures must be taken to ensure that the overall coherence of Natura 2000 is protected. It is for the competent authorities to apply the appropriate protection regime, taking into account the actual designation status of the site.