Mita), Antonio Tajani, Dimitris Tsatsos, Karl von Wogau (for Daniel J. Hannan), and Joachim Wuermeling (for The Lord Inglewood). The opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control is attached. The report was tabled on 16 September 2002. APARLIAMENT'S RULES OF PROCEDURE Present textProposed new text Amendment 1 Rule 93a (new) Other discharge procedures 1. The provisions governing the procedure for discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget shall likewise apply to: - the procedure for discharge to the President of the European Parliament in respect of implementation of the budget of the European Parliament; - the procedure for discharge to the persons who are responsible for the implementation of the budgets of other institutions and bodies of the European Community such as the Council (as regards its activity as executive), Court of Justice, Court of Auditors, Economic and Social Committee and Committee of the Regions; - the procedure for discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the European Development Fund budget; - the procedure for discharge to the bodies responsible for the budgetary management of legally independent entities which carry out Community tasks, in so far as their activities are subject to legal provisions requiring discharge by the European Parliament. Justification In addition to the discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget provided for in the Treaty, Parliament in practice also grants discharge to other bodies . For instance, discharge is granted to the Commission for implementation of the European Development Fund budget, to the management boards of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP) and the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions in respect of the implementation of their budgets, and discharge is granted to the management boards of other Community bodies and agencies in respect of the implementation of their specific budgets. This situation is not reflected in the current wording of the Rules of Procedure. The procedure set out in Annex V should likewise be made applicable to these other discharge procedures. This also applies to the Council, should Parliament decide to carry out a discharge procedure. Amendment 2 Annex V Article 2 (Interpretation) Amendments proposing the opposite to the proposal of the committee responsible are inadmissible. Deleted Justification The interpretation has been redundant since the Rules of Procedure were amended in 1999 as this matter has since been specifically governed by Article 5(2) of Annex V. Amendment 3 Annex V Article 2 (Interpretation) Amendments to the resolution for adoption in plenary must be referred to the committee responsible for an opinion. Amendment 4 Annex V Article 3 Granting or refusing to grant discharge Content of the report The committee responsible shall draw up a report comprising: 1. The discharge report drawn up by the committee responsible shall comprise: (a) a proposal for a decision granting or refusing to grant discharge; (a) a proposal for a decision granting discharge or postponing the discharge decision (April part session vote); or a proposal for a decision granting or refusing to grant