regulate effectively. " Mr. LAKE in H1 also supports this view by claiming that "in UK law the PRE have the protection of the competent authorities" and that the UK "did not implement the legal requirements to enable the authorities to monitor the application of its own law in respect of PRE", despite it being appropriate and necessary, thus possibly breaching the letter and spirit of Article 10. One specific reason why PRE were not respected is related to the solvency margin (for more detail, see section on Article 25, Solvency margin). The argument goes as follows: the regulator allowed ELAS to fulfil its solvency requirements, despite the dubious financial situation in which the company found itself. This is, in effect, tantamount to hiding the true financial situation of ELAS from policyholders and endangering the company’s future financial viability. Consequently, PRE were put at risk and thus it would follow that UK regulators took measures that were not “ appropriate and necessary to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the assured persons” and ensure that the business complied with UK law, i.e., PRE. This raises the possibility of a breach of Article 10 (PRE) via a possible breach of Article 25 (solvency margin). Article 18 - Establishment of technical provisions (Articles 17 of 1LD and 20 of CD) Summary of objectives This article deals with the requirement of every assurance company to establish sufficient technical provisions in respect of its entire business. It also provides for rules for the calculation of the technical reserves, establishing a number of principles, which call for a “prudent prospective actuarial valuation” and for a prudent rate of interest, placing on the home Member State regulator the obligation to fix one or more maximum rates of interest. The bases and methods used in the calculation of technical provisions must be made available to the public. Furthermore, all technical provisions must be covered by matching assets. It also imposes an obligation to localise those assets within the Community. Text of the article Article 18 Article 17 of Directive 79/267/EEC shall be replaced by the following: 'Article 17 1. The home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to establish sufficient technical provisions, including mathematical provisions, in respect of its entire business. The amount of such technical provisions shall be determined according to the following principles: A. (i) The amount of the technical life-assurance provisions shall be calculated by a sufficiently prudent prospective actuarial valuation, taking account of all future liabilities as determined by the policy conditions for each existing contract, including: - all guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed surrender values, -bonuses to which policy-holders are already either collectively or individually entitled, however those bonuses are described - vested, declared or allotted, - all options available to the policy-holder under the terms of the contract, - expenses, including commissions; -taking credit for future premiums due; (ii) the use of a retrospective method is allowed, if it can be shown that the resulting technical provisions are not lower than would be required under a sufficiently prudent prospective