Answer given by Ms Damanaki on behalf of the Commission (7 September 2011) The Commission is aware of the cartographic study of the Sea Mountains of the Baleares promoted by Oceana and the Biodiversity Foundation. Within the proposal for a new Basic Regulation for the common fisheries policy Proposal for a regulation of the Parliament and the Council on the common fisheries policy, COM(2011)425 final. , technical conservation measures will remain an important tool to ensure the conservation of marine biological resources. A new element in the proposal is that Member States may be empowered to adopt conservation measures at national level, either on the basis of a multiannual plan providing for conservation measures for specific stocks, or on the basis of a new technical measures framework regulation, in which the European Parliament and the Council will have set out the basic principles, objectives, targets and results to be obtained. As set out in Article 14(d) of the proposal, such technical measures frameworks shall among other things mitigate the impact of fishing gear on the ecosystem and the environment, with particular regard to the protection of biologically sensitive stocks and habitats. As regards the application of Article 13(1) of the proposal for reform of the common fisheries policy, the intention is to address threats to the marine eco-system requiring immediate action. Fisheries management in the Mediterranean is based on Council Regulation (EC) 1967/2006 of 21 December 2006 concerning management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the Mediterranean Sea OJ L 409, 30.12.2006. , which contains provisions on the establishment of technical measures and measures to protect sensitive habitats and species from fishing impacts. In particular, Article 4 of Council Regulation (EC) 1967/2006 defines the protected habitats on Posidonia beds, coralligenous habitats and maërl beds. The proposal for new Basic Regulation for the common fisheries policy has not yet been adopted and will be subject to discussions by the legislators. The new Basic Regulation is not expected to enter into force in 2013, and it is therefore too soon to evaluate and consider any concrete measures under the proposed act. Council Regulation (EC) 1967/2006 will remain in place when the new Basic Regulation on the common fisheries policy enters into force, and will therefore continue to provide the specific tools for management of fisheries in the Mediterranean. The combined use of proposed provisions as part of the reform of the CFP and existing provisions in place specifically for the Mediterranean, if effectively enforced, should make the protection of the three sea mounts in question possible.