by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). To strengthen the efficiency of the European Anti-Fraud Office and to clarify the legal framework of its mission, the report, drafted by Ingeborg GRÄßLE (EPP-ED, DE), asks the Commission to progress without any further delays on a consolidation of the legal texts on Community administrative investigations. MEPs seek improvements in rules on excise duties The Economics Committee is generally supportive of Commission plans to update the rules on excise duties, and most of the amendments MEPs in the committee propose aim at clarifying the text. Other amendments set out when can travellers have access to duty free shops, and whether there should there be guidelines for the amount of alcohol and tobacco citizens can take across borders. Challenges ahead after 10 years of Economic and Monetary Union MEPs are to debate a comprehensive overview of how all aspects of the Economic and Monetary Union could be developed in the years to come. The report from the Economics Committee gives Parliament’s views on the ECB, the Lisbon Strategy, the Stability and Growth Pact, external representation for the eurozone and financial services supervision, among other issues. Raising the ceiling on financial assistance for non-euro Member States The Commission proposes raising the ceiling for financial assistance to non-euro area Member States facing balance of payments difficulties from €12 to €25bn. It also wants to be granted the power to decide on further changes to the ceiling without going through a full legislative process. Parliament will vote on Tuesday morning on whether to apply an urgency procedure to this proposal – if it does, it could complete its passage through Parliament during this plenary week. CAP health check: finding the right balance Parliament will adopt its position on the Common Agricultural Policy health check just before EU agriculture ministers decide on the final shape of this legislation. In reports tabled to plenary, the Agriculture Committee calls for a smaller cut in farm aid and a limited increase in milk quotas as well as special aid for milk producers and livestock farmers. It also argues that, for certain sensitive sectors, intervention schemes and the link between subsidies and production should be preserved. The four reports, drafted by Luis Manuel Capoulas Santos (PES, PT), strike a balance between the various proposals put forward by MEPs during debates on the health check and also reflect the variety of situations facing farmers in the European Union. Bees and bee-keepers face emergency The decline in the number of bees all over the world but especially in Europe poses a threat not just to honey production but to the pollination of plants and hence to food production. In a debate based on an oral question, followed up with a resolution, MEPs will press the Commission to take action. The threat to bees comes partly from the use of modified and treated seed, which has led to a reduction in pollen and nectar, and partly from the reduction in agricultural set-aside land. CAP further simplified as wine is brought into common market organisation The process of simplifying