Question for written answer E-005522/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Marc Tarabella (S&D) (9 June 2011) Subject: Anti-phishing technologies The scenario is this: citing some pretext or other (computer breakdown, file verification, new legislation, etc.), a person claiming to represent a bank or related organisation sends a customer an e‑mail asking for confirmation of his details. The customer is asked to log on to the bank's website by clicking on the link supplied. Having done so, he is faced with a near‑perfect replica of the bank's website (a so‑called ‘mirror site’) which invites him to submit personal information, such as his credit card number, account number, PIN codes and Internet banking login code. Once in possession of this information, the sender of the malicious e‑mail only has to log on to the bank's real website in order to raid the customer's account. Although governments have specialised police units to deal with this problem, the technology is constantly evolving and cyber criminals follow these developments closely. Assigning police officers in sufficient numbers is not enough; they must also be supported and given the help they need to keep up. The basic problem is that police forces are expected to counter organised crime groups that are increasingly well funded and organised. A partnership with software manufacturers should be set up in order to remedy this state of affairs; however, an arrangement of this kind would be in breach of many countries' laws. 1. Could the widespread adoption of SPF (Sender Policy Framework) and DKIM (Domain Keys Identified Mail) protocols by e‑mail providers and Internet operators be an alternative? 2. Could Internet service providers be required to provide legitimate senders of bulk e‑mails with an authenticated private channel? These measures would ease the pressure on ordinary SMTP channels while also drastically reducing cases of identity fraud. Providing access to such channels would clean up the e‑mail marketing sector in France by giving priority to bona fide companies. This access would be provided on a contractual basis, with both the sender and the operator committing to follow best practices in the fight against spam.