authorities of the withdrawal of the registration, which shall take immediate effect throughout the Community. Amendment 104 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 4 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The European Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union an updated list of credit rating agencies the registration of which has been withdrawn within 30 days of the notification by the competent authority of the home Member State . The Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union an updated list of credit rating agencies the registration of which has been withdrawn within 30 days of the notification by the CESR . Amendment 105 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4a. In the event of withdrawal of registration the competent authorities shall provide for a transition for ratings previously made by the deregistered agency whereby those ratings stand for 12 months with appropriate qualification attached thereto by the competent authorities. Justification It is important that deregistration of an agency does not destabilise the market by undermining or deleting valid opinions previously made by said agency. Amendment 106 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. CESR shall provide advice to the competent authorities , in the cases provided for in this Regulation . The competent authorities shall consider that advice before taking any final decision under this Regulation. 1. The CESR , which is the authority in charge of the registration of credit ratings agencies , shall obtain the opinions of the Member States' competent authorities under Article 15(1) . The CESR shall consider th ose opinions before taking any final decision under this Regulation. Amendment 107 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. The CESR shall work closely together with the Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS) established by Commission Decision 2004/5/EC of 5 November 2003 1 and the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors (CEIOPS) established by Commission Decision 2004/6/EC of 5 November 2003 2 , in view of the role of credit rating agencies and credit ratings in the context of capital and solvency requirements. This applies, in particular, to circumstances or recommendations for instances of withdrawal of registration of a credit rating agency. 1 OJ L 3, 7.1.2004, p. 28. 2 OJ L 3, 7.1.2004, p. 30. Justification The close cooperation between the 3 Level 3 Committees in this respect is vital. Amendment 108 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 2 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. By [within one year after entry into force of this Regulation] CESR shall issue guidance on: 2. By ...* the CESR shall issue guidance on: * OJ please insert date: 6 months after entry into force of this Regulation. Justification CESR has to issue is guidance before credit rating agencies have to apply for registration, see Article 35. Amendment 109 Proposal