Answer given by Mr Barroso on behalf of the Commission (3 April 2009) The Commission is deeply concerned about the social impact of the financial and economic crisis. It has already taken a number of initiatives to help alleviate the impacts on citizens and their families, for example, by frontloading expenditures under the European Structural Funds. It also welcomes the Czech Presidency's initiative to organise an Employment Summit (in May 2009). The Commission hopes that the Summit will confirm a shared commitment by Member States, Community institutions, social partners and other interested parties to work together with a view to providing concrete solutions to problems faced by Europe's citizens and workers. This, it believes, is the best way to alleviate the risks of social disruption. The Honourable Member's questions seem to imply that the protection of national interests needs to be justified by exceptional circumstances such as financial hardship and unemployment. The Commission finds this surprising. In fact, safeguarding national interests is the responsibility of Member States, independently of whether there is a crisis or not. Member States have decided that the best way to do so is to pool sovereignty and exercise it jointly, breaking down barriers between them that impede economic growth and development, and open up to the world. This policy choice reflects the lessons learned from the disastrous impact that the economic nationalism and protectionism of previous decades had had on Europe and the world economy. The success of the Single Market shows that Member States made the right choice: in 2006 alone, the Single Market created additional wealth worth EUR 240 billion. This would not have been possible without a framework of Community law. The Commission therefore has no intention of ‘axing’ European law, as suggested by the Honourable Member. Rather the Commission considers that the quality of the legal environment is now more important than ever. With that in mind, the Commission will continue to evaluate the stock of existing legislation and adjust it where needed, while making sure that any new legislation it proposes is proportionate and that the benefits justify the costs.