bananas. In recent years, however, the power of the banana multinationals has been eclipsed by the power of the supermarkets in some key EU markets, notably the UK. In 2008, EU consumers bought more than 5.4 million tonnes of bananas. The EU imported almost 90% of the bananas it consumed (72.5% from Latin America, 17% from African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries). Five EU countries supplied the remaining 11%: Cyprus; France (the overseas departments of Guadeloupe and Martinique); Greece; Portugal (Madeira and the mainland); and Spain (the Canary Islands). Resolution of the banana dispute On 15 December 2009, the EU, a group of Latin American countries and the United States reached an agreement on the EU’s tariffs on banana imports, bringing to a close one of the most protracted and bitter disputes in the multilateral trading system’s recent history. EU banana import policies had been the subject of a decade-long row at the WTO, putting the EU against several Latin American banana producers and the US. Pascal Lamy warmly welcomed the end of “one of the most technically complex, politically sensitive and commercially meaningful legal disputes ever brought to the WTO.” At issue was the treatment the EU gave to the import of bananas from the ACP countries in preference to bananas from Latin America. In fact, the EU’s banana import regime allowed 775,000 tonnes of the fruit from ACP countries to enter the EU duty-free each year, with a €176/t tariff on bananas from all other exporters (most-favoured nation (MFN) suppliers). Many Latin American countries, which include some of the world’s biggest banana exporters, long insisted that this import regime illegally discriminated in favour of bananas from ACP countries and violated WTO rules on quantitative restrictions. The dispute resulted in multiple legal rulings by dispute panels, the Appellate Body and special arbitrators and the EU had to revise its policies. The agreement consists of three basic components: - an agreed schedule of tariff reductions for most-favoured nation (MFN) banana exporters; - agreement on how to deal with "tropical products" and products subject to "preference erosion" in the wider WTO negotiations; - a financial package, amounting to €190 million, of assistance to ACP banana exporters, to be known as the Banana Accompanying Measures (BAM) programme. The disputes on bananas have destabilised the climate for production and trade in the countries concerned. The deal will make the global market in bananas more predictable and stable, and thereby encourage investment and growth, and increased attention to wider production condition issues in the banana supply chains. Tariff reductions Under the terms of the deal, the EU will gradually cut its tariffs on Latin American banana exports from the current level of €176/t to €114/t by 2017, when it will reach its final level of €114/t. A first cut of €28/t, which was applied retroactively as of 15 December 2009, the date of initialling of the Agreement, reduced the tariff to €148/t. The tariff will then fall again at the start of each year for seven years in annual instalments (€143, €136, €132, €127, €122, €117,