the Management Board should include persons with experience of food and feed production, processing and retailing, as well as persons with experience of working for consumer organisations. Amendment 19 Recital 49 (49) The establishment of the Authority should enable Member States to become more closely involved in scientific procedures; there should therefore be close cooperation between the Authority and the Member States for this purpose. In particular, the Authority should be able to assign certain tasks to organisations in the Member States. (49) The establishment of the Authority should enable Member States to become more closely involved in scientific procedures; there should therefore be close cooperation between the Authority and the Member States for this purpose. In particular, the Authority should be able to assign certain tasks to authorised competent organisations in the Member States. Amendment 20 Recital 50 (50) It is necessary to ensure that a balance is struck between the use of national organisations carrying out tasks for the Authority and the need to ensure for the purposes of overall consistency that such tasks are carried out in line with the criteria established for such tasks for the Authority. Existing procedures for the allocation of scientific tasks to the Member States, in particular with regard to the evaluation of dossiers presented by industry for the authorisation of certain substances, products or procedures, should be re-examined within a year to take into account the establishment of the Authority and the new facilities it offers. (50) It is necessary to ensure that a balance is struck between the use of national authorised competent organisations carrying out tasks for the Authority and the need to ensure for the purposes of overall consistency that such tasks are carried out in line with the criteria established for such tasks for the Authority. Existing procedures for the allocation of scientific tasks to the Member States, in particular with regard to the evaluation of dossiers presented by industry for the authorisation of certain substances, products or procedures, should be re-examined within a year to take into account the establishment of the Authority and the new facilities it offers. However, such scrutiny should remain at least as stringent as current procedures. Amendment 21 Recital 51 (51) The independence of the Authority and its role in informing the public mean that it should be able to communicate autonomously in the fields falling within its competence, its purpose being to provide objective, reliable and easily understandable information. However, the Commission remains fully responsible for communicating risk management measures; the appropriate information should therefore be exchanged between the Authority and the Commission. (51) The independence of the Authority and its role in informing the public mean that it should be able to communicate autonomously in the fields falling within its competence, its purpose being to provide objective, reliable and easily understandable information , including all recommendations to risk managers . Amendment 22 Recital 51 a (new) (51a) The Commission remains fully responsible for communicating risk management measures; the appropriate information should therefore be exchanged between the Authority and the Commission. Amendment