common structure to forward any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the financial management of the common structure. The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and forward any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the financial management of the common structure. The Commission shall at mid-term of the programme and shortly after the end of the programme period submit an evaluation report to the European Parliament and the Council informing them of the operations financed with the Community contribution, and the Commission’s conclusions on the implementation of the programme. Special attention should be devoted to the strengths and weaknesses of the management by the common structure. Justification The management of the programme shall be evaluated thoroughly. The European Parliament has to be provided with sufficient information to enable parliamentary control on the use of the Community funds. Amendment 26 Article 5, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. The Annual report on the Framework Programme presented to the European Parliament and Council pursuant to Article 173 of the Treaty shall include the results of the evaluation of the EDCTP Programme, a description of the activities carried out in connection with research and technological development, creation of the European Research Area and dissemination of results during the previous year and the work programme for the current year. Reporting on the implementation of the EDCTP Programme shall also be part of the regular progress report on the EC Programme for Action on Communicable Diseases in the context of poverty reduction. Justification It is necessary to evaluate the EDCTP programme in the context of its impact on the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis (EC Programme for Action on Communicable Diseases in the context of poverty reduction). Amendment 27 Annex, point 1, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. The programme shall be implemented in close cooperation with researchers from the developing countries and public-health officials, who shall be represented by means of a developing-country coordination committee within the EDCTP programme. Justification Public health experts and officials in the partner developing countries must be involved in the implementation of the EDCTP programme through their involvement in the developing- country coordination committee. Amendment 28 Annex, point 1, subparagraph 2 These activities are aimed at strengthening the two main components of the EDCTP Programme: programmes/activities in Europe on the one hand and in the developing countries on the other. These activities are aimed at strengthening the two main components of the EDCTP Programme: programmes/activities in Europe on the one hand and in the developing countries on the other , with a distinct stress on the latter . Justification The EDCTP must ensure that developing countries participate actively in every stage of the programme and the focus should be on developing programmes and activities in the developing countries. Amendment 29 Annex, point 2 2. Activities linked directly to the development of new products against the three diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis): ∙ support