The rapporteur underlines that the changes proposed by the Council in the different headings for the issues of competence of the culture and education committee are not acceptable. In particular, this committee has stressed several times that the amount proposed in the PDB for the co-decided programs in the culture and education sector are the minimum necessary to run them in an effective way, as expected by a broad range of beneficiaries such as schools, universities, students, cultural organisations, associations. It is important to safeguard these programs as flagships of European integration. Even though the European Commission has showed some difficulties in determining the next phases of its communication policy, the reductions proposed in this area are not coherent with the general political need to engage in a constant dialogue between EU institutions and citizens. 10. Draftsperson's remarks General remarks: The budget 2007 procedure follows the agreement on the MFF, which established ceilings for expenditure much below the ambitions of the European Commission and of the proposals by the European Parliament. National governments are responsible for delaying the agreement on the MFF and thus for putting at risk the timely beginning of EU spending from 2007 onwards. Intergovernmental negotiations on contributions to the EU budget have showed once more their limits. Instead of communicating the idea of the European added value, negotiations on the EU budget have transmitted the EU citizens the wrong impression of a bargaining on "who gets more from Brussels and give less to the EU". Political leadership and a visionary approach to European integration seem to have gone lost. The European Parliament, following its resolutions on policy challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged Union and on the renewal of the Inter-institutional agreement on budgetary discipline (reports by Mr Böge), has given to the issues treated by the culture and education committee priority in the difficult negotiations which took place on the multi-annual financial framework. This has allowed safeguarding the programmes which are recognised as "flagships" and "multipliers" of the European added value. Given their direct impact on some citizens' primary concerns and interests (such as education, culture, cinema, civic society and youth projects etc) their results are good "value for money". They show also a good implementation rate. At the same time, pressure is constantly put on the European Parliament co-decision prerogatives. The EP culture and education committee has contributed to the improvement of the functioning of EU programmes in its area of responsibility through the co-decision procedures. The late adoption by the Council of an agreement on the financial perspective urges the EP to speed up the second reading procedures on five key European programmes (Lifelong Learning, Culture, Media, Youth, Europe for Citizens) while adapting them to the figures established in the Inter-institutional Agreement on the MFF. The EP has constantly underlined the importance of these programmes and of EU action in policy areas such as cultural dialogue, town twinning, cooperation of universities and schools, professional training, youth exchanges, audiovisual creativity, cultural diversity and pluralism. Active policies with adequate financial means in these areas are fundamental.