Society and/or the Government's Actuary Department; and to recommend appropriate redress for any injustice so caused " (WE 12 Annex B. ). The Ombudsman will not investigate whether the UK regulatory regime at the time was properly conceived or whether it meets the requirements of EU law but only whether it was properly administered. It is also important to note that her investigation only covers the period up to 1 December 2001, as the FSA, which was established as the sole regulator from that date, is not a body within her jurisdiction. Likewise, the Ombudsman can only inquire into the actions of those charged with the prudential regulation of ELAS; she cannot consider complaints about the conduct of business or marketing issues because the self-regulatory bodies that were responsible for such regulation are not - and have never been - within the Ombudsman's jurisdiction. A number of witnesses pointed out the importance of the Ombudsman's investigation. Mr THOMSON (H2) took the view that the Ombudsman's report is the policyholders' best hope for compensation. Likewise, Mr TERTÁK (H1) stated that "[the Commission] have consistently taken the view that the second report of the Ombudsman offers the best chance for victims of Equitable Life to obtain redress ". Commissioner McCREEVY in H8 confirmed this: " The report represents the best chance – perhaps the only chance – for aggrieved policyholders and pensioners to receive compensation ". Policyholders seem to agree on the significance of the Ombudsman's report and urged the committee to wait for it to be published before making its own final report. However, they also pointed out the limited coverage of the Ombudsman's investigations: " The Parliamentary Ombudsman's remit is not broad: it excludes the FSA; it excludes half of the regulatory regime concerned with marketing and the conduct of business and it excludes Equitable itself " (WE 44). Furthermore, they expressed concern as to whether the UK Government would implement a scheme giving effect to possible recommendations by the Ombudsman to pay compensation. In this context, they referred to a recent case on occupational pensions, where as many as 125,000 people lost significant parts of their defined benefit occupational pensions when such schemes wound up between April 1997 and March 2004 without sufficient funds to pay the benefits promised. In March 2006, the Parliamentary Ombudsman published a report, ' Trusting in the pensions promise ', which found that Government maladministration had meant that those who suffered loss had not realised the risks they ran and had been denied the opportunity to reduce them. She recommended that the Government should consider whether it should make arrangements for the restoration of the core pension and non-core benefits of those affected. The UK Government rejected both the Parliamentary Ombudsman's finding of maladministration and her recommendation. The UK Parliament's Select Committee on Public Administration was highly critical of the government's position on this issue and expressed concern about the implications it may have for the Ombudsman's constitutional role: We agree with the Ombudsman that maladministration occurred. Government information about pensions was deficient and reasonable people