form a political group shall be twenty. 3. A Member may not belong to more than one political group. 4. The President shall be notified in a statement when a political group is set up. This statement shall specify the name of the group, its members and its bureau. 5. The statement shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rule 30 Activities and legal situation of the political groups 1. The political groups shall carry out their duties as part of the activities of the Union, including the tasks allocated to them by the Rules of Procedure. The political groups shall be provided with a secretariat on the basis of the establishment plan of the Secretariat, administrative facilities and the appropriations entered for that purpose in Parliament's budget. 2. The Bureau shall lay down the rules relating to the provision, implementation and monitoring of those facilities and appropriations, as well as to the related delegations of budget implementation powers. 3. Those rules shall determine the administrative and financial consequences in the event of the dissolution of a political group. Rule 31 Non-attached Members 1. Members who do not belong to a political group shall be provided with a secretariat. The detailed arrangements shall be laid down by the Bureau on a proposal from the Secretary-General. 2. The Bureau shall also determine the status and parliamentary rights of such Members. 3. The Bureau shall also lay down the rules relating to the provision, implementation and auditing of appropriations entered in Parliament's budget to cover secretarial expenses and administrative facilities of non-attached Members. Rule 32 Allocation of seats in the Chamber The Conference of Presidents shall decide how seats in the Chamber are to be allocated among the political groups, the Non-attached Members and the institutions of the European Union. TITLE II LEGISLATIVE, BUDGETARY AND OTHER PROCEDURES CHAPTER 1 LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES - GENERAL PROVISIONS Rule 33 Commission's legislative and work programme 1. Parliament shall work together with the Commission and the Council to determine the legislative planning of the European Union. Parliament and the Commission shall cooperate in preparing the Commission's legislative and work programme in accordance with the timetable and arrangements agreed between the two institutions and annexed to these Rules of Procedure See Annex XIV. . 2. In urgent and unforeseen circumstances, an institution may, on its own initiative and according to the procedures laid down in the Treaties, propose adding a legislative measure to those proposed in the Legislative Programme. 3. The President shall forward the resolution adopted by Parliament to the other institutions which participate in the European Union's legislative procedure and to the parliaments of the Member States. The President shall ask the Council to express an opinion on the Commission's Annual Legislative Programme as well as Parliament's resolution. 4. Where an institution is unable to comply with the timetable laid down it shall notify the other institutions as to the reasons for the delay and propose a new timetable. Rule 34 Examination of respect for fundamental rights, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the