A first cut of €28/t, which was applied retroactively as of 15 December 2009, the date of initialling of the Agreement, reduced the tariff to €148/t. The tariff will then fall again at the start of each year for seven years in annual instalments (€143, €136, €132, €127, €122, €117, €114), starting on 1 January, 2011. Should there be no agreement in the Doha Round negotiations, then the EU will freeze its cuts for up to two years. This means that should there be no agreement once the EU cuts its tariffs to €132 per tonne, it will make no further cuts for up to two years, until the end of 2015 at the latest, then from 2016 at the latest, the EU will continue cutting its tariff each year, as agreed until the tariff reaches €114/t on 1 January 2019 at the latest. The agreement lays to rest decades of conflict, with a clause stating that Latin American banana exporters will drop all actions against the EU in the WTO: "once the WTO certifies the EU’s new tariff schedule, Latin American banana-supplying countries will drop all their disputes on bananas with the EU at the WTO, and any claims they made against the EU after new member countries joined the Union, or when the EU changed its banana tariff in 2006" and will not seek further tariff reductions on bananas in the Doha Round. Bananas from ACP countries will continue to enjoy duty-free and quota-free access to the EU's market under separate trade and development agreements, but are likely to lose market share to more efficient Latin American producers as the EU tariff slides lower. "Tropical" and "Preference Erosion" products In parallel, the EU, ACP and Latin American countries agreed on an approach on the so-called "tropical" and "preference erosion" products in the on-going DDA negotiations. "Tropical products" will be subject to deeper tariff cuts, while tariff cuts for "preference erosion" products of interest to ACP countries will be conducted over a relatively longer period. The agreement is the EU's final commitment on the tariffs it will apply to banana imports following the Doha Round negotiations. Banana support programme for the ACP Since 1994, the EU has provided more than €450m to ACP banana-exporting countries to help them adapt to changes, to produce bananas more competitively or to diversify their economies into other areas. In addition to regular EU aid, the main ACP banana-exporting countries will receive up to €190 million from the EU budget to help them adjust to the new tariff. The Commission will examine, together with the budgetary authority, the possibility of topping up this amount by €10 million if the corresponding credits become available in the annual budget procedures. The aid will be aimed at improving competitiveness, economic diversification and mitigating the social consequences of adjustment. The Banana Accompanying Measures programme will apply to ten ACP banana exporters (Belize, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ghana, Jamaica, St Lucia, St Vincent & the Grenadines, and Suriname), including two non-traditional exporters (Ghana and Dominican Republic). In addition to