ensure full cooperation when dealing with specific implementing measures. To this effect, appropriate contacts at administrative level will be established. Preceding agreements 20. The 2000 Agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission on procedures for implementing Council Decision 1999/468/EC OJ L 256, 10.10.2000, p. 19. is hereby replaced. The European Parliament and the Commission consider the following agreements superseded and thus of no effect in so far as they are concerned: the 1988 Plumb/Delors Agreement, the 1996 Samland/Williamson Agreement and the 1994 modus vivendi OJ C 102, 4.4.1996, p. 1. . ANNEX XIII Framework Agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission The European Parliament Parliament's decision of 26 May 2005. and the Commission of the European Communities (hereinafter referred to as "the two Institutions"), - having regard to the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty establishing the European Community, and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaties"), - having regard to the Inter-institutional Agreements and texts governing relations between the two Institutions, - having regard to Parliament's Rules of Procedure OJ L 44, 15.2.2005, p. 1. , and in particular Rules 98, 99 and 120 as well as Annex VII, A. whereas the Treaties strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the European Union's decision-making process, B. whereas the two Institutions attach the utmost importance to the effective transposition and implementation of Community law, C. whereas this Framework Agreement does not affect the powers and prerogatives of Parliament, the Commission or any other institution or organ of the European Union but seeks to ensure that those powers and prerogatives are exercised as effectively as possible, D. whereas it is appropriate to update the Framework Agreement concluded in July 2000 OJ C 121, 24.4.2001, p. 122. and to replace it by the following text, agree as follows: I. SCOPE 1. The two Institutions agree on the following measures to strengthen the political responsibility and legitimacy of the Commission, extend constructive dialogue, improve the flow of information between the two Institutions and improve the coordination of procedures and planning. They also agree on specific implementing measures for the forwarding of confidential Commission documents and information, as set out in Annex 1 and on the timetable for the Commission’s legislative and work programme, as set out in Annex 2. II. POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Each Member of the Commission shall take political responsibility for action in the field of which he or she is in charge, without prejudice to the principle of Commission collegiality. The President of the Commission shall be fully responsible for identifying any conflict of interest which renders a Member of the Commission unable to perform his or her duties. The President of the Commission shall likewise be responsible for any subsequent action taken in such circumstances; if an individual case has been re-allocated, the President shall inform the President of Parliament thereof immediately and in writing. 3. If Parliament decides to express lack of confidence in a Member of the Commission, the President of the Commission, having given serious consideration to that decision,