be achieved”. . This deadline is important when considering the role of UK regulators in the Equitable Life case, as their action in the years 1989-1993 (scrutiny of actuarial reports, prudential supervision) was accordingly ruled by provisions of the First Life Directive (79/267/EEC). European Court of Justice (ECJ) rulings have repeatedly placed particular emphasis on the purpose of a directive. see cases C-14/83 von Colson and Kaman, para.15 and C-62/00 Marks & Spencer v Customs & Excise, para.27. Accordingly, the crucial issue is whether a Member State has adopted all the necessary measures to ensure the full effectiveness of the directive in accordance with the objective which the latter pursues. As stressed by the ECJ " Member States are under an obligation to ensure the full and effective application of a directive, meaning that a Member State is not discharged of its transposition obligations merely by adopting the necessary implementing measures. Member States remain bound to ensure full application of the directive even after the adoption of those implementing measures and individuals are therefore entitled to rely before national courts against the State whenever the full application of the directive is not in fact secured. That is to say, not only where the directive has not been implemented or has been implemented incorrectly but also where the national measures correctly implementing the directive are not being applied in such a way as to achieve the result sought by it . Further, the ECJ has repeatedly held that directives are binding on all the authorities of the Member States: not only the legislature but also the administrative agencies responsible for the day-to-day application and enforcement of the law... are bound. " (ES-1, par.7-8) 2. Prudential supervision responsibility Articles 8 and 9 of 3LD clearly define the remit and extent of the Member States' supervising responsibility, including cases where the assurance company operates in other Member States, stating that "financial supervision shall include verification, with respect to the assurance undertaking's entire business, of its state of solvency, the establishment of technical provisions, including mathematical provisions, and of the assets covering them, in accordance with the rules laid down or practices followed in the home Member State pursuant to the provisions adopted at Community level." In the case of a company having established an operational branch in another Member State, " the competent authorities of the home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to have sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms." For control purposes, " the Member State of the branch shall provide that... the competent authorities of the home Member State may... carry out themselves, or through the intermediary of persons they appoint... on-the-spot verification of the information necessary to ensure the financial supervision of the undertaking. The authorities of the Member State of the branch may participate in that verification." The home Member State may require systematic communication of technical provisions for prudential supervision, but only for the purpose of " verifying compliance with national provisions concerning actuarial principles, without that requirement constituting a prior condition for an