% " he stated. He made one final appeal to the people of Cyprus to vote in favour of the draft agreement. Elmar BROK (D) for the EPP-ED recalled that the Foreign Affairs Committee had drawn up a draft report which supported the Annan plan. He also supported this plan saying that it could be implemented without risk. No individual issue, he said, should prevent the draft agreement from being approved. The compromise put forward was fair and well-founded. He also outlined that the draft resolution assured both sides that the EU institutions would do their best, with other international institutions, to guarantee the implementation of the settlement and confirmed its intention actively to monitor the implementation of the Annan Plan. Jacques POOS (L) for the PES group underlined that the Cypriots faced an important choice and urged them to vote in favour of reconciliation and peace. The Secretary-General of the UN had put forward a plan that should be acceptable to both sides. He called on both sides to " leave nationalism behind ". A no vote could mean that that the status quo could endure for many years if not forever. For the ELDR group, Graham WATSON (South West) said that the Cypriots were at a historic junction where possible reconciliation had meant important concessions from both sides. He thanked Commissioner Verheugen for his work but regretted that he had not received more support from other European leaders. Mr Watson saluted those Cypriot leaders who were calling for a " yes " vote. A no vote would be both " sad and based on sectarian values " and could put back the chance of reunification by a generation. Speaking for the EUL/NGL group, Hans MODROW (D) said he had visited the island last week. There had been a glimmer of hope, but many of the expectations of the Greek Cypriots were unfulfilled. The negotiations had been barely reported in Cyprus. It was difficult to communicate a 9,000 page document, and this had clearly failed. There were different interpretations of the plan even within the governing coalition of the Republic of Cyprus. Now there was a need for clear signals from the EU and the UN, he said, signals on peace and security. We should not, he argued, ignore the fact of war and Turkish occupation. There should be no unilateral advantages for either side. Politics is not about finality and eternal truths - the reunification of Germany had shown that. There was a need for a sober and level headed approach. Daniel Marc COHN-BENDIT (F) for the Greens/EFA group said the situation was not only difficult, it was also sad. For years, he said, we had argued that we could not allow a Turkish nationalist position to prevent the acceptance of Cyprus into the EU, but this, he said, had led us into a trap. With a radical change on the Turkish side, the guaranteed accession of Greek Cyprus had led to the present position. The UN plan reflected neither all of the Greek Cypriot view or the Turkish Cypriot