9999/C Q999 E/018 WRITTEN QUESTION P-0455/04 by José Ribeiro e Castro (UEN) to the Commission (06 February 2004) Subject: Illegal fishing - Azores and Madeira There are media reports that the Spanish authorities have apparently 'anticipated' the application of the new Community Regulation (1954/2003 OJ L 289, 7.11.2003, p. 1 . ), and liberalise access to half of the Azores and Madeira Economic Exclusion Zone; they have already issued licences for fishing in those waters to at least one Spanish shipowner, in what constitutes a clear violation of the deadlines established. The same sources believe that this action on Spain's part is a direct assault on Portuguese sovereignty, since liberalisation was scheduled to take place only on 1 August 2004 (Regulation 1954/2003, Article 15), when the currently applicable Regulation is revoked. The Portuguese radio channel TSF obtained access to a Spanish Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries document authorising one shipowner to fish for swordfish and similar species in Azores and Madeiran waters, with the exception of the zone lying between the coast of the two archipelagos and the hundred-mile limit. These documents were discovered by accident on January 16 2004. The Azores authority, whose satellites had already detected 16 Spanish vessels in local waters, have informed the Portuguese Defence Ministry of the discovery of this document, and have requested that surveillance, both by air and by sea, be reinforced. The media claim that the Portuguese Government, in the person of the Secretary of State for Fisheries, has asked the Commission for its opinion of the Spanish licences for fishing off the Azores and Madeira. If Spain's precipitate action proves to be illegal, the worst fears concerning the liberalisation of fishing in those waters will be confirmed, and Portuguese public opinion will have fresh cause for alarm. - Is the Commission aware of these facts, and the action of the Spanish authorities? - How does it view this case and, particularly, the behaviour of the Spanish authorities? - What measures has it taken, or will it take, to deal with this situation? - Does it believe that Spain should make reparations to Portugal?