aid seriously risks jeopardising the successful use of the Directive since it would offer insufficient incentive for the victim to cooperate. Free legal aid enhances successful co-operation of the victim, who in most cases have little or no financial means of their own. Amendment 13 Article 9, paragraph 3 subparagraph 2a (new) Member States shall ensure the effective availability of the third-country national to cooperate with the competent authorities for the duration of the residence permit. Justification Since the purpose of the Directive is to encourage successful cooperation between the victim and the competent authorities, the availability of the victim for the duration of the residence permit should be ensured. Amendment 14 Article 10, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. When issuing a residence permit, the Member States shall consider issuing family members accompanying the victim a residence permit for the same limited period. Justification Reinstates the part of Amendment 25 from Parliament's resolution A5-0397/2002 which relates to Article 10(4). Amendment 15 Article 10, paragraph 2 b (new) 2b. The absence of papers or possession of false papers shall not constitute obstacles to the issuing and renewal of a residence permit. Justification It very often happens that victims of illegal immigration or of trafficking in human beings have no identity documents or have been given false ones. This state of affairs should not constitute an obstacle to their situation being taken into account and to their being issued with a residence permit. Amendment 16 Article 12, paragraph 1 1. Member States shall define the rules under which holders of the residence permit shall be authorised to have access to the labour market, to vocational training and education. 1. Member States shall define the rules under which holders of the residence permit shall be authorised to have access to the labour market, to vocational and language training and education. Justification In order to integrate well into the training system, the labour market and education, it is essential that holders of short-term residence permits should have access to language training. Amendment 17 Article 13 a (new) Article 13a Court proceedings Member States shall protect the privacy and identity of persons who take part in court proceedings and shall guarantee, in particular, that such proceedings are not held in public . Justification Persons who act as witnesses in court proceedings above all have the right to be protected against intimidation and/or reprisals. The confidentiality of such proceedings represents a basic precaution. Amendment 18 Article 14, point (c) a (new) (ca) In addition, Member States shall ensure that unaccompanied minors are accommodated on the basis of arrangements in the following order of preference: - with adult relatives; - with a foster family; - in institutions which specialise in accommodating minors; - in other forms of accommodation suitable for minors. Justification Consideration must also be given to accommodating victims who are minors. Amendment 19 Article 16, paragraph 1 1. The residence permit issued on the basis of this Directive shall not be renewed if the conditions of Article 10(2) cease to be satisfied or if a decision adopted