the Council and the Commission of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure OJ C 172, 18.6.1999, p.1. , for the budgetary authority during the annual budgetary procedure. In general, EC development-related funding should also contribute towards gender equality as a cross-cutting issue. ( 14 ) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. . ( 15 ) In accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality set out in Article 5 of the Treaty , the objective of the proposed action, namely to promote gender equality in development cooperation, cannot be attained by the Member States acting alone. By reason of the scale and effects of the proposed action, it can therefore be better achieved by the Community. This Regulation confines itself to the minimum required to achieve that objective and does not go beyond what is necessary for that purpose. HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Chapter I Scope Article 1 1. The purpose of this Regulation is to implement measures to promote gender equality in Community development cooperation policies, strategies and interventions. To this end, the Community shall provide financial assistance and appropriate expertise aimed at promoting gender equality into all its development cooperation policies and interventions in developing countries. 2. The Community support shall be aimed at complementing and reinforcing the policies and capacities of developing countries as well as the assistance provided through other instruments of development cooperation. Article 2 For the purposes of this Regulation: a) "gender mainstreaming' concerns planning, (re)organisation, improvement, and evaluation of policy processes, so that a gender equality perspective is incorporated in all development policies, strategies and interventions, at all levels and at all stages by the actors normally involved therein; b) "specific measures' concerns measures to prevent or compensate for disadvantages linked to sex and which may be maintained or introduced with a view to ensuring equality in practice between men and women; such measures should, in the first instance, aim at improving the situation of women in the field covered by this Regulation. Article 3 The objectives to be pursued by this Regulation, in accordance with the goal of promoting gender equality and empower women as specified by the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women, the Outcome of the Special Session of the General Assembly 'Women 2000: gender equality, development and peace for the 21st Century', are the following: a) to support the mainstreaming of gender in all areas of development cooperation, combined with specific measures in favour of women of all ages , with the goal of promoting gender equality as an important contribution to poverty reduction; b) to support endogenous public and private capacities in developing countries which can take the responsibility and