comprise the word "contains" followed by the name of the ingredient(s) concerned. However, an indication is not necessary when the ingredient is already included under its specific name in the list of ingredients or in the name under which the beverage is sold. Justification The aim of the amendment is to avoid the disproportionate obligation of listing on the label of products such as wines all the substances used as processing aids that do not leave residues in the finished product or the residues of which have been transformed in such a way that they have lost their allergenic characteristics. However, in order to protect the consumer, labelling will be compulsory where the Commission is able to provide scientific evidence that the residues still present in the finished product may cause an allergic reaction. Amendment 2 ARTICLE 1, PARAGRAPH 1, SUBPARAGRAPH F Article 6, paragraph 10, subparagraph 3 (new) (Directive 2000/13/EC) Notwithstanding paragraph 4(c)(ii), (iii) and (iv), any substance used in production of a foodstuff and still present in the finished product, even if in altered form, and originating from ingredients listed in Annex IIIa shall be considered as an ingredient and shall be indicated on the label with a clear reference to the name of the ingredient from which it originates. Notwithstanding paragraph 4(c)(ii), (iii) and (iv), any substance used in production of a foodstuff and still present in the finished product - in an amount which scientific research has shown may cause allergic reactions - even if in altered form, and originating from ingredients listed in Annex IIIa shall be considered as an ingredient and shall be indicated on the label with a clear reference to the name of the ingredient from which it originates. The indication of processing aids shall however not be required for alcoholic beverages as defined in paragraph 3. Justification On the basis of the current state of scientific knowledge, it must be assumed that allergic reactions occur only in the presence of specific quantities. This raises, among other things, the question of setting a limit value for certain substances. 'True' allergies - i.e. those involving an IgE (immunoglobulin E) response are only dose-independent in theory: in practice even these immunological reactions require certain (low) concentrations of the potential allergens. Measurable presence alone does not determine the allergic reaction. For many potential allergens, generally proteins, no classic dose finding curves are available, which means that threshold values are assumed but not defined. Similarly, there are few immunological studies with reliable test systems that are ultimately capable of establishing beyond doubt the allergic potential of an additive or its metabolites constituents. Consequently, reliable analytical and immunological test results are needed. A comprehensive evaluation of this complex problem also requires: (a) testing of potential allergic substances and of the forms used to deliver them (b) data on bioavailability and metabolisation. In particular, the labelling of processing aids used for wine and beer processing requires an exception. This reintroduces the idea of Amendment 7 from first reading with a view to a compromise with the Council. Amendment 3 ARTICLE