penalties from being set. Amendment 3 Proposal for a directive Recital 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6) In order to ensure its effectiveness, the system of enforcement should cover the phases between the detection of an offence and the sending of an offence notification, based on a standard model, to the holder of the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned. Once a final decision has been taken, the Council Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to financial penalties applies . (6) In order to ensure its effectiveness, the system of enforcement should cover the phases between the detection of an offence and the sending of an offence notification, based on a standard model, to the holder of the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned. Once a final decision has been taken, the Council Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to financial penalties may apply. Where that Framework Decision cannot be applied, for example because sanction decisions do not fall within the scope of criminal law, the effectiveness of the sanctions should nevertheless be ensured by other sanction enforcement measures. A minimum standard ought to be introduced for offence notifications, including response notices, and for more compatible methods of sending them so that cross-border enforcement becomes more reliable and more effective . Justification The effectiveness of sanctions transmitted between Member States is ensured by Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA for decisions involving criminal offences. However, this Decision does not cover all such cases within the European Union; other means of sanction enforcement must therefore be established in order to complete the framework agreement, particularly where sanction decisions are taken by administrative authorities. Amendment 4 Proposal for a directive Recital 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7) Further, the cross-border exchange of information should be carried out rapidly by electronic means. To this end , an EU electronic network should be set up . (7) Further, the cross-border exchange of information should be carried out rapidly by electronic means. To this end, it is desirable that secure Community electronic networks be set up , enabling the exchange of information in secure conditions and ensuring the confidentiality of the data transmitted . Justification The electronic networks thus created must ensure data security and confidentiality. Amendment 5 Proposal for a directive Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) Since the data relating to the identification of an offender is personal, Member States must take the measures necessary to ensure that Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data is complied with. (8) Since the data relating to the identification of an offender is personal, Member States must take the measures necessary to ensure that Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the