the basis of Article 192 EC Treaty and Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure; (b) Strategic Reports , drawn up on the basis of non-legislative strategic and priority initiatives included in the Commission's annual legislative and work programme; (c) Non-Legislative Own-Initiative Reports , not drawn up on the basis of a document of another Institution or body of the European Union or drawn up on the basis of a document forwarded to Parliament for information, without prejudice to Article 2(3); (d) Annual Activity and Monitoring Reports (as listed i n Annex 1) Parliamentary committees envisaging the drawing-up of annual activity and monitoring reports pursuant to Rule 112(1) of the Rules of Procedure or pursuant to other legal provisions (as included in Annex 2) shall give advance notification thereof to the Conference of Committee Chairs, indicating in particular, the relevant legal basis deriving from the Treaties and other legal provisions, including Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Committee Chairs shall subsequently notify them to the Conference of Presidents. Such reports shall be authorised automatically and shall not be subject to the quota referred to in Article 1(2). ; (e) Implementation Reports on the transposition of EU legislation into national law and the implementation and enforcement thereof in Member States. Quota 2. Each parliamentary committee may simultaneously draft up to six own-initiative reports. For committees with sub-committees, this quota shall be increased by one report per sub-committee. This additional report shall be drawn up by the sub-committee. The following shall not be subject to that ceiling: - legislative own-initiative reports; - implementation reports; each committee may draw up one such report a year. Minimum period before adoption 3. The parliamentary committee seeking authorisation may not adopt the report in question within the three months following the date of authorisation or, in the case of notification, within the three months following the date of the meeting of the Conference of Committee Chairs at which the report was notified. Article 2 Conditions for authorisation 1. The proposed report must not deal with topics principally involving analysis and research activities which may be covered in other ways, for example by studies. 2. The proposed report must not deal with topics which have already been the subject of a report adopted in plenary during the previous 12 months, save where new information justifies it on an exceptional basis. 3. With regard to reports to be drawn up on the basis of a document forwarded to Parliament for information, the following conditions shall apply: - the basic document must be an official document from an institution or body of the European Union and (a) have been forwarded officially to Parliament for consultation or information, or (b) have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union for the purpose of consultations with interested parties, or (c) be a document from an institution or body of the European Union which has been officially submitted to the European Council or a document produced by the latter; - the document must be forwarded in all the official languages of