rules that Equitable Life is allowed to sue its former auditor, accountants Ernst & Young, provided that it restricts the claim to damages for the "loss of the chance of sales" (of the company) rather than actual loss of sales. § October 2003: The former non-executive directors' application to strike out the claim against them is dismissed. § March 2004: The Penrose report is published. Following the report's publication the government rules out compensation and is accused of "abandonment" by MPs. § April 2004: A group of policyholders, the Equitable Life Trapped Annuitants (ELTA), announces its intentions to sue the society if compensation is not forthcoming. Equitable Life is advised by lawyers that it has "no realistic claims" against government regulators of the society. § June 2004: Christopher Headdon, Equitable's former chief executive, is banned from holding a management role at any company regulated by the Financial Services Authority for the next six years. § 15 July 2004: Arthur White sends 1st petition to the Petitions committee of the EP § 6 December 2004: Emag sends 2nd petition to the Petitions committee of the EP § April 2005: The trial of Equitable's claim against its former auditors Ernst & Young and directors commences, claiming their negligence was the cause of the insurer's near collapse. It also sues 15 former directors for their role in the insurer's downfall. The case continues until the summer break. § September 2005: Equitable's claim against its former auditors is settled. § September 2005: UK Ombudsmans sends memorandum to EP petitions committee. § 18 January 2006 EP takes decision to start EQUI committee § 2 February 2006 EQUI committee constituent meeting § 8 May 2007 EQUI committee adopts final report. ANNEX 2: GLOSSARY OF SPECIALIZED EQUI TERMS GLOSSARY Abridged version of glossary in the Penrose report, with some additions. OF SPECIALIZED EQUI TERMS § ABI: Association of British Insurers. § Actuary: A specialist in the mathematics of insurance who calculates rates, reserves, dividends and other statistics. § Actuary's certificate: A certificate provided by the appointed actuary of a life office. § Admissible assets : Asset that can be taken into account for the purposes of a firm's solvency requirements valued in terms of applicable regulations. § Annuity: An agreement by an insurer to make periodic payments that continue during the survival of the annuitant(s) or for a specified period. § Annuitant: An individual who purchases an annuity and will receive payments from that annuity. His life expectancy is used to calculate the income payment amount on the annuity. § AVC: Additional Voluntary Contribution: a payment on a voluntary basis into an employer's occupational pension scheme. § BaFin: Bundesamt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, the German Financial Services Authority. § BIA: British Insurers Association (which became the ABI). § Companies Act accounts : Statutory accounts prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act accounting requirements. § Compromise Scheme : A scheme for compromise between a company and its creditors, or any class of them. § Conduct of Business (C.O.B.) regulation : Regulation relating to the sales processes of the company. § Corley