national management declarations, which represent a major innovation in the management of Community funds and are already used in a number of Member States (Netherlands, Denmark, United Kingdom and Sweden). The committee is critical of what it sees as the Commission's hitherto “tacit acceptance of Member States’ collective irresponsibility” (with the exception of the above four countries) concerning the EU's financial management. However, it welcomes the “firm political support” now given by the Commission for such declarations, although it says the Commission should encourage them more strongly External activity: one final effort The committee believes the management of the Community’s external aid raises numerous questions. It considers that, following this discharge procedure, the Commission is showing increasing awareness of the importance of the transparency and visibility of external aid (of all kinds, whether managed by the Commission or jointly managed via international partners). At the same time, the committee still awaits the list of entities which did not have to undergo tender procedures for contracts received in 2006. MEPs accept the Commission’s proposal to discuss the matter of a definition for non-governmental organisations following the results of the Court of Auditors’ ongoing audit of NGOs (announced as part of the court’s work programme for 2008). Lastly, they say EU external aid should be more visible on the ground and more accessible to audit activities in cases of joint management of aid, in particular with the United Nations. EP discharge - in line with the Bureau’s recommendations MEPs are also proposing that the European Parliament be granted its discharge for 2006. Among key points of the 2006 Parliament discharge (rapporteur: Javier Pomes Ruiz , EPP-ED, ES), the question of Members’ own administrative expenditure was the subject of a number of amendments, one of which (a compromise) welcomes the decisions of the Conference of Presidents and the Bureau on this matter. The committee believes that the working party on the Members’ statute, the assistants’ statute and the pension fund (set up following the decisions of those senior EP bodies) should include a member (yet to be designated) of the Budgetary Control Committee. In this connection, shortly before the vote on the 2006 EP discharge, Vice-President Martine Roure (PES, FR), who chairs the working party on the Members' statute and assistants, urged MEPs to give her their “full support” in finding a solution to this matter. The committee says that service providers must be paid [when fulfilling a contract for an MEP] by a payment agency based in their own Member State, and that MEPs may not employ members of their family. Voluntary pension fund The committee also says it is “surprised” at the recommendation by the Conference of Presidents of 13 March 2008 that MEPs be allowed to acquire new pension entitlements under the voluntary pension fund following the entry into force of the new Members’ statute. The discharge resolutions for 2004 and 2005 had stressed that this fund’s activities should be limited, from the start of the next term, to making payments for entitlements already acquired. For this reason, the committee insists that