decreasing precipitation. There is an obvious link between these changing climate conditions and increased risks of forest fires, although climate change is not the only factor affecting those risks. The Green Paper places much emphasis on prevention, preparedness and early action in order to limit damage and costs due to climate change. While there is a role for all actors and national, regional and local authorities, the Green Paper proposes that a number of the solutions require EU‑wide coherent and coordinated action. The Green Paper also calls for a reinforcement of civil protection mechanisms. 2. The Commission's Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC) acts as an information, communication and coordination centre on a 24/7 basis. The Commission does not monitor the use of the mechanism by each Member State. The Commission does monitor the use of Community funds for combating fires in the EU. The first LIFE+ call for proposal which provides support for public awareness-raising projects and for training of agents involved in forest fire prevention is intended to be launched in autumn 2007. Prior to LIFE+, the expired Forest Focus Regulation provided funding for forest fire prevention activities. The allocation of resources to Forest Focus forest fire measures has been described in the 2005 Report of the Joint Research Centre on Forest Fires in Europe. This can be viewed on the following website: http://effis.jrc.it/documents/2006/ForestFiresInEurope2005.pdf. The publication of the 2006 report is planned for early October 2007. Concerning the Rural Development Fund, the Capidim database deals with the monitoring of the community funds implemented under the measure ‘preventing forest fire and restoring production potential’. 3. The Commission has recently adopted a Communication on water scarcity and droughts COM(2007)414 final. which identifies a first set of policy options with a view to opening up a wide-ranging debate on how to adapt to water scarcity and droughts, two phenomena that are likely to deteriorate due to climate change. In the light of the discussions on this communication in the Council of Ministers and Parliament, the Commission will consider follow-up initiatives and action within the coming few years. 4. The Commission recognises the important role of forests in the vicinity of cities and towns but has so far not drawn up a specific action programme in this regard. 5. The Commission recognises the important role of forests not only as climate regulators but also as important sinks and sources of greenhouse gases. Forests have therefore become an important element of international climate change negotiations to reduce emissions, in which the Commission is actively participating.