of its members; b) the objective and tasks of the EGTC ; c) its name and the address of its seat; d) its organs , which shall include an assembly composed of representatives of its members, an executive committee, its competencies, its functioning, the number of representatives of the members of the organs and a secretariat. The statutes may provide for supplementary organs ; e) the decision-making procedures of the EGTC ; Justification Every entity having legal personality can establish its own organs in accordance with the law governing the way in which it operates. It would seem advisable, therefore, to leave the choice of organisational system up to the EGTC members, subject to the proviso that every EGTC should have an assembly representing all its members and an executive committee, i.e an executive body composed of one or more persons. It should also be up to EGTC members to specify the arrangements for EGTC representation, i.e who can represent the grouping in what field, whether it should be represented by one or more persons when concluding agreements, etc. Amendment 38 Article 5, paragraph 2, point i a) (new) ia) the modalities for its dissolution. Justification In order to guarantee its democratic and transparent management every EGTC should have an assembly made up of representatives of all its members and an executive committee and/or director, who are answerable to the assembly. The statute should also contain provisions regarding the dissolution of the EGTC. Amendment 36 of the rapporteur, which deletes Article 6, is complementary to this amendment. Amendment 39 Article 5, paragraph 4 4. Upon adoption of the statutes, the EGCC has the capacity to act, in accordance with article 3, paragraph 2. deleted Justification Amendment 31, which inserts a new provision, Article 6a, proposes the introduction of EGTC registration procedures based on the law applicable to the registration of associations. Consequently, it is appropriate to confirm the fact that the EGTC acquires legal personality and the capacity to act pursuant to the law applicable to the registration of associations. Consequently, the text of Article 5(4), which is insufficiently precise, should be withdrawn. Amendment 40 Article 6 Article 6 Organs 1. The EGCC is represented by a director, who acts on its behalf. 2. The EGCC can equip itself with an assembly, which is made up by representatives of its members. 3. The statutes can envisage supplementary organs deleted Justification Amendment 34 proposes to reword Article 5(2)(d) and insert a new Article 5(2)(da), leaving the choice of organisational system for the EGTC up to its members, provided that each EGTC has an assembly and an executive committee, and specifying that rules concerning the representation of the EGTC must be laid down. Consequently, the provisions of Article 6(1), which are inconsistent with Amendment 34 and place unjustifiable limits on the competencies of EGTC members, should be withdrawn. Amendment 41 Article 8 The EGCC is published in the Official Journal of the European Union, once it has the capacity to act, in accordance with article 5, paragraph 4. As of this instant, the legal