Reply (21 March 2011) As was mentioned by the Honourable Member, EU proposals aimed specifically at reinforcing EU‑NATO relations were submitted to the NATO Secretary General by the High Representative in February 2010. The European Council of 16 September 2010 invited the High Representative to develop ideas with which to further strengthen EU‑NATO cooperation in crisis management, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions. The European Council underlined that this should be done in a spirit of mutual reinforcement and in respect of their decision-making autonomy further to the recommendations on concrete measures transmitted by the EU to NATO in February 2010. The European Union has already set in place a number of measures aimed at improving cooperation with NATO on specific matters and facilitating dialogue, between all EU Member States and all NATO allies. It is not a question of resolving the most difficult questions but rather improving EU‑NATO cooperation pragmatically, including in Afghanistan and Kosovo. Moreover, work is in progress to reinforce cooperation and explore potential collaboration in specific fields such as the fight against explosive devices and medical aid. The High Representative considers it of the utmost importance to find practical solutions that allow EU‑NATO relations to develop on an organisation-to-organisation basis, without discrimination among NATO Allies or EU Member States. Following the NATO summit in Lisbon on 19 and 20 November, where the importance of a strategic partnership between NATO and the EU has been affirmed, the Secretary General of NATO, Mr Rasmussen, for his part, was encouraged to continue working with the High Representative and to submit a report to the North Atlantic Council on the efforts being made in time for the meeting of the NATO foreign affairs ministers in April 2011. The NATO Secretary General presented first ideas during the informal Defense Ministers meeting in Palma de Majorca and during a speech to the European Parliament on 28 September. These ideas have never been transmitted officially to the EU by NATO. At the same time, the Council reiterates that Turkey, as a candidate State, must subscribe to the principles and objectives of the European Union. In particular, the negotiating framework envisages the need for a progressive alignment in Turkey's position within the international organisation on the policies and positions adopted by the Union and its Member States (including in relation to the accession of all EU Member States to these organisations and arrangements). Regarding the two specific questions raised by the Honourable Member, as is envisaged within the negotiating framework and the Council conclusions of 14 December 2010, Turkey is still required to respect its obligations concerning, on the one hand, good neighbourly relations and, on the other, the full non-discriminatory implementation of the Additional Protocol to the Association Agreement.