of family, cultural and social ties with his country of origin where they reject an application, withdraw or refuse to renew a residence permit or decide to order the removal of the applicant or members of his family. Member States shall have proper regard for the nature and solidity of the person's family relationships and the duration of his residence in the Member State and to the existence of family, cultural and social ties with his country of origin where they reject an application for entry and residence for the purposes of family reunification , withdraw or refuse to renew a residence permit or decide to order the removal of the applicant or members of his family. Amendment 64 Article 17a (new) Article 17a Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall adopt all the necessary measures to ensure that they are implemented. The penalties provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Member States shall notify the Commission of the content of these measures by 31 December 2003 at the latest, and of any subsequent amendment to them immediately. Amendment 65 Article 18, title (new) Procedural guarantees Amendment 66 Article 18, paragraph 1 The Member States shall ensure that the applicant and/or the members of his/her family have the de facto and de jure right to apply to the courts where an application for family reunification is rejected or a residence permit is either not renewed or is withdrawn or removal is ordered. Any decision as a result of which an application for family reunification is rejected or a residence permit is either not renewed or is withdrawn or removal is ordered must be duly substantiated . The person concerned shall be notified of the decision in writing. This notification shall specify the appeal procedures available, and the time limits for lodging such appeals with the administrative and judicial authorities of the Member State in question. Amendment 67 Article 19, title (new) Reports Amendment 68 Article 19 From time to time , and for the first time no later than two years after the deadline set by Article 20, the Commission shall report to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of this Directive in the Member States and shall propose such amendments as may appear necessary. These proposals for amendments shall be made by way of priority in relation to Articles 3, 4, 7, 8 and 13. Every five years , and for the first time no later than two years after the deadline set by Article 20, the Commission shall report to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of this Directive in the Member States and shall propose such amendments as may appear necessary. These proposals for amendments shall be made by way of priority in relation to Articles 3, 4, 7, 8 and 13. The Member States shall supply the Commission with all the information needed to draw up that report. Amendment 69 Article 20, title (new) Transposition into