disclosed by the rating agency. Amendment 75 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. A credit rating agency shall document and disclose all the steps, information and factors which have given rise to a rating. Justification Increased transparency and better protection of investors. Amendment 76 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 8a Transparency of information Issuers providing information to a registered credit rating agency, for the purpose of establishing a rating, shall provide the same information , on request , to any bona fide analysis service . Such an analysis service shall undertake to respect confidentiality in the us e of th at information. Employees of such an analysis service shall also undertake not to trade in securities issued by the issuer concerned . Justification The regulation should require issuers to make available to others the same information as is used by the credit rating agencies in reaching their judgement. Making the information available would create the opportunity for a market to develop in truly independent ratings not paid for by the issuer. Increasing the availability of information is the course of regulatory action most likely to result in genuine competition to the credit rating agencies. Amendment 77 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Credit rating agencies shall make available in a central repository established by CESR information on their historical performance data and information about past credit rating activities. The repository shall be open to the public. 2. Credit rating agencies shall make available , in a common format , in a central repository established by CESR information on their historical performance data , including the frequency of ratings transition, and information about past credit rating activities. The repository shall be open to the public. The CESR shall provide guidance on the format, detail and period that is to be covered. On the basis of th e information contained in the repository , the CESR shall monitor past performances of credit ratings on the bas is o f statistical results. The CESR shall subsequently publish statistics on credit rating agencies and their performances, inter alia as regards the reliability of their ratings. Amendment 78 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. A credit rating agency shall make available annually to the competent authority of the home Member State the information on matters set out in Annex I, Section E, Part II, point 2. Competent authorities of home Member States shall not disclose that information. 3. A credit rating agency shall make available annually to the CESR the information on matters set out in Annex I, Section E, Part II, point 2. The CESR shall disclose that information. Amendment 79 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment A credit rating agency shall publish annually a transparency report which includes the information on matters set out in Annex I,