Commission, G. whereas the Commissioner in charge in its official letter from 21 January 2011 identified three areas for clarification: the question of balanced coverage; the territorial scope and the requirement of registration; whereas the Hungarian government’s reply to the Commission was sent on the 31st January with detailed clarification and repeatedly confirmed willingness to carry out negotiations on the new law, and modify the text if proven necessary, H. whereas on 7 February 2011 the negotiations between the Commission and government experts took place successfully and came to an agreement on carrying out modifications in the law in four items: registration of blogs, services provided from other countries, the requirements for balanced coverage and offensive content, 1. Affirms that the freedom and pluralism of the media guaranteed in Hungary by the Media Constitution (CIV of 2010) and Media Law and the freedom of the press and of information is an established principle in the daily life of every Hungarian citizen; 2. Deplores the premature and unjustified attacks to the Hungarian Government especially timed on the occasion of the beginning of the Hungarian Presidency of the European Union; 3. Underlines that the Commission's findings, as the guardian of the Treaties, checked the compatibility of the new Hungarian Media Law with the relevant European legislation; 4. Welcomes the agreement between the Commission and the Hungarian Government to modify the Hungarian Media Law as requested. Welcomes the exceptionally fast decision of the Hungarian Government to modify the Media Law and welcomes the adoption of the modifications by the Hungarian Parliament in the upcoming days. Expresses disappointment that the Hungarian Socialist Party in the Hungarian Parliament opposed the urgency vote on the agreed amendments; 5. Welcomes the views of the European Commission expressed by Commissioner Kroes during the debate on the Hungarian Media Law in the plenary session of the European Parliament that the amended version of the Law ‘complies with all aspects of EU law’ including concerns raised regarding the Charter of Fundamental Rights; 6. Declares that a resolution against the Hungarian Media Law has no justified reason any more; expresses therefore disappointment as to the manipulative and politically motivated comments often out of content on the Hungarian Media Law and the Hungarian Government, and considers that this unfounded criticism aims to weaken the Hungarian Presidency this way do harm to EU as a whole facing its biggest challenges since its creation; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the Governments and Parliaments of the Member States and the President of the Republic of Hungary.