may lodge an appeal without suspensory effect against this decision. This appeal shall be considered jointly by the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament and the bureau of the committee concerned. Their majority decision shall be final. If it is proved that an official has failed to respect confidentiality, the penalties for which the Staff Regulations provide shall apply. B. Access by Parliament to sensitive information in the field of security and defence policy Interinstitutional Agreement of 20 November 2002 between the European Parliament and the Council concerning access by the European Parliament to sensitive information of the Council in the field of security and defence policy OJ C 298, 30.11.2002, p. 1. THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL, Whereas: (1) Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union states that the Council Presidency shall consult the European Parliament on the main aspects and the basic choices of the common foreign and security policy and shall ensure that the views of the European Parliament are duly taken into consideration. That Article also stipulates that the European Parliament shall be kept regularly informed by the Council Presidency and the Commission of the development of the common foreign and security policy. A mechanism should be introduced to ensure that these principles are implemented in this field. (2) In view of the specific nature and the especially sensitive content of certain highly classified information in the field of security and defence policy, special arrangements should be introduced for the handling of documents containing such information. (3) In conformity with Article 9(7) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. , the Council is to inform the European Parliament regarding sensitive documents as defined in Article 9(1) of that Regulation in accordance with arrangements agreed between the institutions. (4) In most Member States there are specific mechanisms for the transmission and handling of classified information between national governments and parliaments. This Interinstitutional Agreement should provide the European Parliament with treatment inspired by best practices in Member States, HAVE CONCLUDED THIS INTERINSTITUTIONAL AGREEMENT: 1. Scope 1.1 This Interinstitutional Agreement deals with access by the European Parliament to sensitive information, i.e. information classified as "TRÈS SECRET/TOP SECRET", "SECRET" or "CONFIDENTIAL", whatever its origin, medium or state of completion, held by the Council in the field of security and defence policy and the handling of documents so classified. 1.2 Information originating from a third State or international organisation shall be transmitted with the agreement of that State or organisation. Where information originating from a Member State is transmitted to the Council without explicit restriction on its dissemination to other institutions other than its classification, the rules in sections 2 and 3 of this Interinstitutional Agreement shall apply. Otherwise, such information shall be transmitted with the agreement of the Member State in question. In the case of a refusal of the transmission of information originating from a third State, an international organisation or a