for managing one-fifth of the Union's external eastern border. He stressed that it would be important for the EU to open up eastwards as long as countries in that region aligned their legislation to that of the EU. Lithuania's greatest achievement in recent years, he said, was good neighbourly relations. President Paksas stated that Russia had a strategic partnership with Lithuania. On Kaliningrad, the President wanted to stress the social economic development of the enclave and port. The EU, he said, should not forget Ukraine nor the Southern Caucasus and these countries should be offered a vision of European Union membership. On the draft Constitutional Treaty, he stated that a good and acceptable balance had been struck although further precision was necessary. Institutional reform and the spirit of compromise were of paramount importance at the moment, calling for a Europe based on common values, equal rights and opportunities. On the CFSP, the President called for Europe to act with a single voice as well as stressing the importance of the transatlantic partnership. The EU, in conclusion, should aim towards spreading stability and security wherever possible. Final step before enlargement Commission communication on the comprehensive monitoring report and strategy paper of the Commission on the progress towards accession by the candidate countries Debate: 05.11.2003 The European Commission has presented its monitoring report on the preparedness of the ten accession countries set to join the EU in May 2004 and regular reports on the progress towards accession of Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. In its monitoring report on the ten acceding countries, the Commission has " not been confronted with any major surprises or last minute discoveries ". The report, which was presented to the European Parliament by Commission President Romano PRODI and enlargement Commissioner Günter VERHEUGEN, concludes that, " on the whole, the acceding countries are expected to be ready for accession in the very large majority of areas, even if minor adjustments are still needed in some cases ". A number of issues remain to be tackled with greater effort between now and accession. However, there are also a small number of issues of serious concern, on which the Commission will issue warning letters. If the countries concerned do not take immediate and decisive action, they will most likely not be able to enjoy the full benefits of EU membership, the Commission warns. Such issues have been found in all acceding countries. But the Commission is convinced that the remaining gaps can be closed by the time of accession. The Commission has found 39 issues of serious concern relating to the internal market and the delivery of EU funds to beneficiaries. However, these issues represent a mere 3% of all the topics examined. Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey have made significant progress towards fulfilling the accession criteria, the Commission says. For Bulgaria and Romania, accession in 2007 remains the firm focus. Turkey needs to make further efforts in the strengthening of the judiciary, the exercise of fundamental freedoms of expression, association and religion, reducing the role of the military in civil domains and the