be humble" when we ourselves are "dealers in nuclear technology". Tobias PFLÜGER (GUE/NGL, DE) said that the North Korean nuclear test deserved to be condemned and would only lead to the destabilisation of the region. It was sad that the North Korea regime was focusing on developing nuclear weapons rather than feeding its people. North Korea, he said, had become the ninth nuclear power in the world despite the Nuclear non-proliferation Treaty (NPT). Sanctions would not work as the population would suffer. North Korea was exploiting double standards as the EU also possessed nuclear weapons despite the NPT. "There is no such thing as a good nuclear bomb." Ģirts Valdis KRISTOVSKIS (UEN, LV) was another speaker to underline that the whole region's stability had been undermined by the nuclear test. He too stressed the double standards regarding non-proliferation as Dr El Baredei from the IAEA had pointed out. Why was it okay for Israel to possess nuclear weapons and North Korea not, he asked. Bastiaan BELDER (IND/DEM, NL) said that the whole region had been destabilised. Russia and China need to shoulder their responsibility for finding a solution to this crisis. The international community could stop trading with North Korea. Jan Tadeusz MASIEL (NA, PL) said that North Korea's population had suffered considerably over a long period and that the North Korean regime should concentrate on feeding its people rather than building nuclear weapons. This would be of benefit to the entire region and not only North Korea. British speaker James ALLISTER (NA, UK) said it was "chilling" to think of the North Korean regime's nuclear capacity, particularly as it "may now be in the marketplace with crazed terrorist groups for the export of nuclear technology". He argued that "it behoves the EU to be extremely robust and resolute" in the circumstances and said "severe sanctions" might be required. Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner's response to the debate Replying for the Commission, Benita Ferrero-Waldner said the need was "to find the right smart response", one which would "focus on the authorities but spare the population". Only diplomacy could achieve this goal and she was adamant that "the six-party talks remain the best hope" for a medium- to long-term solution. The EU was not a participant in these negotiations but "as a responsible global actor, it is profoundly supportive of this framework". In the end, she believed "dialogue will be the answer". High Representative Solana's response to the debate Mr Solana said that the debate had shown that all MEPs that had spoken condemned the nuclear test. It was difficult to assess why North Korea had chosen this moment to carry it out. Mr Solana praised the Chinese for their constructive reactions and for leading the six-party talks, however no date had been set for the next meeting and instead a nuclear test had been carried out. He also agreed with those MEPs that had said that the NPT had to revised. North Korea must be condemned for the nuclear test, he said. North Korea had probably examined the international community's reaction to the nuclear test