Recital 7 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7a) A minimum organised structure is needed in order to successfully carry through a citizens' initiative. This should take the form of a citizens' committee, composed of natural persons (organisers) coming from one fifth of Member States, in order to encourage the emergence of European-wide issues and to foster reflection on those issues. For the sake of transparency and smooth and efficient communication, the citizens' committee should designate representatives to perform a liaison function between the committee and the institutions of the Union throughout the procedure. Justification The citizens' initiative is conceived in order to give the opportunity to citizens to participate in the democratic life of the Union. It should only be open to natural persons who establish a citizens' committee. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7b) It is important to involve young people and to encourage them to participate in the citizens' initiatives. Justification In the proposal, Member States have the responsibility for checking signatures. To involve young people, we should aim at developing a system for checking signatures at EU wide level in order to ensure a common minimum age. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives, it should be mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary statements of support from citizens; proposals that are abusive or devoid of seriousness should not be registered and the Commission should reject the registration of proposals which would be manifestly against the values of the Union. The Commission should deal with registration in accordance with the general principles of good administration. (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives, and to avoid a situation in which signatures are collected for a proposal which does not fall within the scope of this Regulation, it should be mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary statements of support from citizens; proposals that are not citizens' initiatives in accordance with this Regulation should not be registered and the Commission should reject the registration of proposals which would be manifestly against the values of the Union , as set out in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union . Registration is an administrative procedure aimed at selecting those initiatives that fall within the scope of this Regulation; therefore any refusal of registration should be based only on legal grounds and not, on any account, on grounds of political expediency . The Commission should deal with registration in accordance with the general principles of good administration , and should therefore be obliged to inform the organisers of an initiative of the reasons for any refusal to register an initiative and of the legal remedies available to them in that event . It should also be made clear