News Alert : 04-10-2002 Brussels, 4 October 2002 The Week Ahead 7 – 13 October 2002 The first item on the agenda of Parliament's plenary session of 9 and 10 October is the presentation by Commission President Romano Prodi of the progress report on enlargement. A number of important parliamentary reports are also scheduled for adoption at this session, including one on greenhouse gas emissions trading, which is crucial to meeting the EU's obligations under the Kyoto protocol. Outside the plenary, this week sees a number of major events. On Monday the Conciliation Committee will try to reach a compromise on cosmetic products, where the crux of the issue is animal experiments. Another tricky conciliation takes place on Thursday on electrical and electronic waste. Parliament's committees welcome several prominent visitors in the course of the week. On Tuesday the Economic Affairs Committee holds its regular monetary dialogue meeting with Wim Duisenberg, and also welcomes William McDonough, who is Chairman of the Basel Committee on capital adequacy requirements as well as head of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The same day the Foreign Affairs Committee has a discussion with NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson. Committee adoptions will include the Regional Committee's vote on the report on the creation of a solidarity fund for major disasters. The Legal Affairs Committee will decide its position on the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products. Two resolutions on terrorism are also due to be put to the vote, one at the Foreign Affairs Committee and the other at the Citizens' Rights Committee. BRUSSELS PLENARY SESSION 9 – 10 October 2002 Wednesday 9 October 2.30–4pm - Commission statement - presentation of progress report on enlargement 4-8pm, 9pm-12 midnight - Debate on the situation in Iraq (to be confirmed) Joint debate on employment . Statements by Council and Commission on the employment strategy . Report by Regina Marie PINTO DA FONSECA RAMOS BASTOS (EPP-ED, P) on skills and mobility . Report by Philip Rodway BUSHILL-MATTHEWS (EPP-ED, UK) on the growth and employment initiative for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) Joint debate on Al geria *** . Recommendation by Raimon OBIOLS I GERMA (PES, E) on a Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement with Algeria . Oral questions to Council and Commission - conclusion of an association agreement with Algeria ***II - Recommendation by Alejo VIDAL-QUADRAS ROCA (EPP-ED, E) on energy performance of buildings - Report by Herbert BÖSCH (PES, A) on fraud-proofing of legislation and contract management * - Report by Michael HOLMES (Ind, UK) deep-sea fishing Thursday 10 October 9-11am ***I - Report by Jorge MOREIRA DA SILVA (EPP-ED, P) on greenhouse gas emissions trading ***II - Recommendation by Giuseppe NISTICO (EPP-ED, I) on dangerous substances (carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction) 11am-1pm - Votes THE PRESIDENT'S DIARY Wednesday 9 October 6pm Meeting with Speaker of Mongolian Parliament, Mr Tumur-Ochir Thursday 10 October 10.30am Address to Irish Senate 3.30pm Meeting with Czech Foreign Minister, Cyril Svoboda PRESS CONFERENCES Press Room: PHS 0A50 Monday 7 October 3.30pm Monica FRASSONI (Greens/EFA, B) and Messrs SAURA and LABORDETA, Spanish MPs,