been considered by the European Parliament in separate resolutions or will be considered shortly Inter alia the new decision on Commitology and the communications on an operating framework for the European regulatory agencies ( COM(2002) 718 final), on a framework for target-based tripartite contracts and agreements between the Community, the States and regional and local authorities ( COM(2002) 709 final) and the Commission's working document on the policy dialogue with regional and local government bodies, published in March 2003 (Commission Working Paper: 'Ongoing and systematic policy dialogue with local-government associations' (http://europa.eu.int/comm/regional_policy/consultation/permanentdialogue_en.pdf). In this connection the rapporteur also notes the efforts with regard to openness and transparency. It will soon be possible to read the observations of the European Parliament in the Cashman report on public access to the documents of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission (implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001), with an opinion delivered by Mrs Hanja Maij-Weggen on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. . In the meanwhile, the European integration process has not stood still. The Nice European Council paved the way for a broader and deeper debate on the future of the European Union. Enlargement to include ten new Member States and the way in which the decision-making process in Europe has ground to a halt illustrate the absolute necessity of reforming the European Union as a whole. The Convention on the Future of Europe was set up to make proposals for making the European Union more capable of action, more efficient and more democratic. It must be stressed that the reforms which are being debated at the Convention are of the greatest importance and must be the true basis for good governance in Europe. This report does not contain any new recommendations on revising the Constitution, but does emphasise the importance of a successful IGC. By means of various resolutions, the European Parliament has created a framework for its contribution to the Convention. The Lamassoure report Report on the division of competences between the European Union and the Member States (2001/2024(INI)), Committee on Constitutional Affairs, rapporteur: Alain Lamassoure, A5-0133/2002 . on the division of competences between the European Union and the Member States is the key document here. That report clearly indicated in what transnational fields European policy is needed. Such policy should be adopted at Community level in order to guarantee democracy and effective action in an enlarged and deepened European Union. 2. SIMPLIFICATION OF LEGISLATION In June 2002, in connection with the White Paper, the Commission published an Action Plan entitled 'Simplifying and improving the regulatory environment' COM(2002) 278 final. . Its aim was to improve the formulation and implementation of policy by modifying the existing procedures, expanding policy instruments and simplifying current legislation. The Commission has since published a fresh communication on simplifying and streamlining the existing acquis COM(2003) 71 final. . Here too, the aim is to make legislation more accessible and comprehensible to the general public. Outdated legislation is to be repealed and the volume of legislation will be reduced by an estimated 35 000 pages by means