of preparation of the agreements and during the conduct and conclusion of international negotiations. This information covers the draft negotiating directives, the adopted negotiating directives, the subsequent conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of the negotiations". The above information "shall be provided to Parliament in sufficient time for it to be able to express its point of view if appropriate, and for the Commission to be able to take Parliament’s views as far as possible into account ...". Article 218(10) of the TFEU has provided for "Parliament ... [to] be immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedure". This stipulation must therefore be put fully into effect, as Parliament called for in paragraph 3(h) of its resolution of 9 February 2010 on a revised Framework Agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission. The European Commission shall regularly inform the European Parliament about the application of ITTA, 2006. In doing so, it shall check ITTA's implementation against the EU's own forest law enforcement, governance and trade instruments. In line with the European Parliament legislative resolution of 24 September 2008 P6_TA-PROV(2008)0 453 , your Rapporteur recalls that when drafting the negotiating mandate for the revision of the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006, the Commission should propose that the current text be revised, placing the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests and the restoration of forest areas that have been degraded at the heart of the agreement, stressing the importance of education and information policy in the countries affected by the problem of deforestation in order to enhance public awareness of the negative consequences of exploiting timber resources in an abusive manner. Trade in tropical timber should only be encouraged to the extent compatible with these prior objectives. In particular, this mandate for the revision of the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006 should propose a voting mechanism for the International Tropical Timber C ouncil that clearly rewards the conservation and sustainable use of tropical forests. RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE Date adopted 13.7.2011 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 25 0 1 Members present for the final vote William (The Earl of) Dartmouth, Laima Liucija Andrikienė, Kader Arif, David Campbell Bannerman, Daniel Caspary, Marielle De Sarnez, Christofer Fjellner, Metin Kazak, David Martin, Vital Moreira, Paul Murphy, Cristiana Muscardini, Franck Proust, Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl, Niccolò Rinaldi, Helmut Scholz, Peter Šťastný, Keith Taylor, Paweł Zalewski Substitute(s) present for the final vote Josefa Andrés Barea, George Sabin Cutaş, Norbert Glante, Syed Kamall, Elisabeth Köstinger Substitute(s) under Rule 187(2) present for the final vote Rosa Estaràs Ferragut, Vicky Ford