Main changes in the Draft Budget: specific aspects and by MFF heading 8. Before outlining the main changes in the DB by MFF heading, there are three specific aspects of the DB that the rapporteur wishes to highlight. These are: (i) horizontal cuts linked to the quality of Activity Statements; (ii) pilot projects and preparatory actions, and; (iii) administrative resources. These issues were discussed at the conciliation (see part III). Horizontal cuts linked to activity statements 9. The Commission produces activity statements linked to the PDB, which set out the rationale for spending and key objectives in each policy area. The activity statements are prepared by the Commission Directorate-General responsible for each policy area. On the basis of detailed analyses by member states of these activity statements, the Council has deducted between 2 and 3 % of appropriations for particular policy areas in the DB. This approach appears to have elements in common with the cost-benefit approach advocated by the rapporteur. There is, however, a substantive difference between activity statements prepared by Commission Directorates-General and external assessments conducted by the European Parliament, or by external consultants on its behalf, that examine the overall qualitative value for money delivered by specific policies. The rapporteur wishes to see an improvement in value for money in the EU budget, but he would not endorse an approach whereby policies that do not constitute political priorities and/ or under-performing programmes receive additional funds solely because the relevant activity statements are well-drafted. In a spirit of seeking better value for money in the EU budget, the rapporteur would welcome a more in-depth discussion with the Commission and Council on how the analysis of the activity statements was conducted and how this fits with political priority-setting within the EU budget. The rapporteur seeks a co-ordinated approach across the EU Institutions on these issues. Pilot projects and preparatory actions 10. The DB includes two budget lines for pilot projects: · Strengthening education, research and innovation, the "knowledge triangle" (Budget line: 02 02 09, commitments € 5 million, payments € 2 million) · Energy security - promotion of EU self-sufficiency in renewable energy sources (Budget line: 06 04 07, commitments € 5 million, payments € 2 million) 11. The rapporteur notes that these pilot projects cover priority areas for the European Parliament, but he raises two major concerns. On substance, he is concerned that these pilot projects do not constitute new areas of EU policy, but would seem to cover issues already within existing programmes. On process, notwithstanding the fact that the new IIA for foresees an early evaluation of new pilot projects and preparatory actions, he reserves his position on pilot projects and preparatory actions. He intends to come forward with his position in mid-September, taking into account proposals from other EP committees. As per paragraph 23 of the mandate report, he considers that a rationalisation and concentration of proposals should be an objective for the 2007 budget. Administrative resources 12. In parallel with the DB, the Council adopted a unilateral declaration on administrative resources. This focused on posts in