this Directive and of the regulatory acts listed in Part I of Annex IV and shall take all necessary measures for their implementation. The penalties determined shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Member States shall notify these provisions to the Commission no later than …. * and shall notify any subsequent modifications thereof as soon as possible. Member States shall determine the penalties applicable for infringement of the provisions of this Directive , and in particular of the prohibitions contained in or resulting from Article 31, and of the regulatory acts listed in Part I of Annex IV and shall take all necessary measures for their implementation. The penalties determined shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Member States shall notify these provisions to the Commission no later than …. * and shall notify any subsequent modifications thereof as soon as possible. Justification Simpler drafting consistent with the modified art.31 (1). Amendment 33 Annex II, section A, point 5 5. "Special purpose vehicle" means a vehicle of category M, N or O for conveying passengers or goods and for performing a special function for which special body arrangements and/or equipment are necessary . 5. "Special purpose vehicle" means a vehicle intended to perform a function which requires special body arrangements and/or equipment. This category shall include wheel-chair accessible vehicles. Justification The amendment aims at including within the ‘special purpose vehicle category’ vehicles which are constructed or converted to accommodate wheel-chair users. It will thus be possible to lay down specific technical provisions for type-approving such vehicles at Community level. In addition, the definition has been simplified. Amendment 34 Annex II, section A, point 5, point 5.4 a. (new) 5.4a. "Wheel-chair accessible vehicle" means a vehicle of category M 1 constructed or converted specifically so that it accommodates one or more person(s) seated in their wheel-chair(s) when travelling on the road. Justification The amendment provides for a clear definition of a vehicle converted for the purposes of transporting wheel-chair users seated in their own wheel-chairs. The definition together with the new Appendix to Annex XI will allow specific technical provisions for type-approving such vehicles to be laid down at Community level. Amendment 35 Annex II, section C, point 5, indent SGH a (new) SGa Wheel-chair accessible vehicle (See Annex II, section A, item 5.4a.) Justification The amendment is related to the definition newly included in Annex II, section A, point 5. Amendment 36 Annex IV, Part I, item 31, column 1 31. Seat belts 31. Seat belts and restraint systems Justification The amendment aims at ensuring consistency with the introduction of a new obligation to type-approve child restraint systems under Directive 77/541/EEC. This amendment should also apply to: Annex IV, Part I, Appendix, item 31 - Annex IV, Part II, item 31 - Annex VI, Appendix, item 31 - Annex XI, Appendix 1, item 31 - Annex XI, Appendix 2, item 31 - Annex XI, Appendix 3, item 31 - Annex XI, Appendix 4, item 31 Amendment 37 Annex V, appendix 2, paragraph 10.1 and paragraph 10.2, introductory wording and point (a) 10.1. The