WRITTEN QUESTION E-3012/10 by Joanna Senyszyn (S&D) to the Commission (3 May 2010) Subject: Women in Polish science Women are under-represented in science and scientific research. In Europe, 30 % of scientists and only 18 % of professors are women, while they account for just 27 % of science managers. In Poland, women make up just 7 % of the members of the management bodies of universities and scientific institutes, putting the country in last but one place among the EU’s 27 Member States. The Polish Academic Entrepreneurship Foundation plans to conduct a research project, ‘Women in Science’, which will aim to point out grounds for discrimination against women in Polish science as well as resolving this situation effectively. In preparation for this project, could the Commission answer the following questions: 1. In its most recent opinion (January 2010) on the implementation of equality policy in Poland, the Commission pointed out irregularities in the application of EU provisions prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of religion, belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in employment and occupation (Directive 2000/78/EC). Could the Commission clarify the nature of these shortcomings and indicate what actions not hitherto undertaken are necessary? Would it be possible to obtain a comparative study on compliance with these obligations by other Member States? 2. Does the Commission see the need for the creation of further specific programmes in the area of science and the media in order to guarantee equal opportunities for women in science? Could such programmes count on the financial support of the Commission during the current multiannual financial framework? 3. What is the Commission’s view on a quota system for scientific management bodies? Does the Commission have any information on the introduction of such systems in other Member States? I would ask the Commission to give specific support and practical assistance to social organisations in drawing up and implementing citizens’ projects. Citizens’ projects which come from citizens and are for citizens have the greatest chance of success.