the modalities of the UPR, D. whereas the credibility of the UNHRC rests on the implementation of these reforms and mechanisms in a way which will strengthen its ability to address human rights violations around the world, E. whereas an ad hoc European Parliament delegation will be established for the seventh session of the UNHRC, as in the two previous years and, before that, for the UNHRC's predecessor, the UN Commission on Human Rights, The Human Rights Council's work 1. Underlines the crucial role of the Human Rights Council in the overall UN architecture; reiterates the view that its focus should remain primarily on addressing human rights violations, as general political situations fall within the competence of other UN bodies; stresses the specificity of the UNHRC: the important role of Special Procedures, the special sessions, the UPR, the interactive dialogue and its capacity to address urgent crises; 2. Takes note of the results of the UNHRC's work; welcomes the fulfilment of the ambitious programme the UNHRC set itself, which included the review of its procedures and working methods, in particular the development and implementation of the UPR and the review of Special Procedures; 3. Pays tribute to the positive achievements of the UNHRC presidency and in particular its good cooperation with the OHCHR; calls on the EU to support equally candidates with high standards of integrity for the election of the new President of the UNHRC to be held on 23 June 2008; 4. Welcomes the organisation of special sessions, as they constitute essential links between serious human rights violations and independent expertise; is concerned, however, at the failure of the UNHRC to take action to address many of the world's most urgent human rights situations; 5. Notes that the purpose of special sessions is to address urgent crises, while persistent human rights violations should be addressed in regular session, allowing for a more in-depth analysis and providing solutions for the long term; 6. Stresses that special sessions require prior preparation and structured working methods to produce a positive outcome; in this regard, notes the success of key EU initiatives; 7. Notes the direct impact of the special session on Myanmar, held in Geneva in October 2007, with the condemnation of government repression and the visit of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar; deplores the lack of follow-up to and monitoring of the Special Rapporteur's recommendations, as the human rights situation is worsening in Myanmar; U nited Nations General Assembly election of new members of the UNHRC 8. Calls for competitive elections to be held in all regions, in May 2008, in order to provide real choice among UN Member States; regrets that some countries with problematic human rights records have so far been elected, since slates have been wiped clean; 9. Calls on the Council, Commission and Member States to continue to press for the establishment of membership criteria for election to the UNHRC, including the issuing of standing invitations to Special Procedures, as well as for monitoring of the actual implementation of the UN Member