mechanisms must be closely connected to the global agenda for women’s rights; notes that this includes linking up with and supporting the new UN gender equality entity, which should combine policy and operational activities, and calls on the EU to ensure that the new entity is provided with substantial financial and human resources enabling it to deliver on the ground, and led by a UN Under-Secretary-General with responsibility for gender equality; 78. Calls for compliance with its recent resolutions of 10 February 2010 on preventing trafficking in human beings ( P7_TA(2010)0018 ) and on equality between women and men in the EU ( P7_TA(2010)0021 ); 79. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the governments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Introduction The 2006-2010 Roadmap for equality is due to expire this year, and the Commission has announced that it is drawing up a new gender equality strategy. Given that we are experiencing a serious economic and social crisis, with dire consequences for women, what is needed is to prevent backward steps and give substance to the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion. Two anniversaries fall this year: the 15 th anniversary of the Beijing Conference and the centenary of International Women’s Day. These were landmark events for women’s emancipation and the fruits of struggles – great and small – that intensified during the 19 th and 20 th centuries. The Swedish Presidency drew up a report on the EU’s implementation of the document adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women, held in Beijing in 1995: the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action for Equality, Development and Peace. While it was preparing this report, bearing the above context in mind, the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality held a hearing in Brussels on 28 January 2010 on gender equality strategy, attended by a number of specialists and EU women’s organisations; the participants pointed to the need for further breakthroughs to enable gender equality to be translated into reality and women’s rights to be defended and promoted as fundamental human rights. Stages in the struggle for women’s rights – the centenary of International Women’s Day and the 15 th anniversary of the Beijing Conference Meeting in Copenhagen in 1910, the Second International Conference of Working Women, on a proposal by Clara Zetkin, a prominent German revolutionary leader, endorsed the idea of celebrating an International Women’s Day, the object being to enable working women to demonstrate in support of their emancipation and universal suffrage; this marked the culmination of a growing protest movement in which women had been campaigning for better living and working conditions; their protest was thus elevated onto the political plane, and what was a symbolic date was turned into an action plan calling for working women all over the world to mobilise in support of their economic, social, and political mobilisation. Many years were to pass, however, between the declaration of International Women’s Day (1910) and its official establishment by the UN. In March 1972 Hertta Kuusinen, a Communist member