principle of proportionality as set out in that Article, this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective, HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Article 1 Scope This Directive shall apply to the activity of driving carried out by: a) nationals of a Member State and b) nationals of third countries who are employed or used by an undertaking established in a Member State hereinafter referred to as "drivers", engaged in road transport within the Community, on roads open to the public, using: – vehicles for which a driving licence of category C1, C1+E, C or C+E, as defined in Directive 91/439/EEC, or a driving licence recognised as equivalent, is required; – vehicles for which a driving licence of category D1, D1+E, D or D+E, as defined in Directive 91/439/EEC, or a driving licence recognised as equivalent, is required. Article 2 Exemptions This Directive shall not apply to the drivers of: a) vehicles with a maximum authorised speed not exceeding 45 km/h; b) vehicles used by, or under the control of, the armed forces, civil defence, the fire service and forces responsible for maintaining public order; c) vehicles undergoing road tests for technical development, repair or maintenance purposes, or of new or rebuilt vehicles which have not yet been put into service; d) vehicles used in states of emergency or assigned to rescue missions; ( e) vehicles used in the course of driving lessons for any person wishing to obtain a driving licence or a CPC, as provided for in Article 6 and Article 8(1); f) vehicles used for non-commercial carriage of passengers or goods, for personal use; g) vehicles carrying material or equipment to be used by the driver in the course of his work, provided that driving the vehicle is not the driver's principal activity. Article 3 Qualification and training 1. The activity of driving as defined in Article 1 shall be subject to a compulsory initial qualification and compulsory periodic training. To this end Member States shall provide for: a) a system of initial qualification Member States shall choose between the following two options: i) option combining both course attendance and a test In accordance with point 2.1 of section 2 of Annex I, this type of initial qualification involves compulsory course attendance for a specific period. It shall conclude with a test. Upon successful completion of the test, the qualification shall be certified by a CPC as provided for in Article 6(1)(a). ii) option involving only tests In accordance with point 2.2 of section 2 of Annex I, this type of initial qualification does not involve compulsory course attendance but only theoretical and practical tests. Upon successful completion of the tests, the qualification shall be certified by a CPC as provided for in Article 6(1)(b). However, a Member State may authorise a drive r to drive within its territory before obtaining a CPC, when he is undergoing a national vocational training course of at least 6 months, for a maximum period of three years. In the context of this vocational training course, the tests