Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (26 February 2007) Alcohol-related harm is a serious and complex problem. The Commission is pleased that, on 30 November 2006, the Council already gave full support for the strategy set out in the Commission communication COM(2006)625 final. as a meaningful and serious first step in supporting Member States in reducing alcohol related harm. In developing this strategy, the Commission consulted internally, as well as with all the players in the alcohol supply chain from primary producers to retail and hospitality sectors, advertisers, public administrations and non-governmental bodies, whether primarily focussed or not on alcohol issues. The Commission could not, without a disproportionately expensive examination of diaries of all parts of the Commission services and cabinets, establish a comprehensive account of all meetings with all interested players where the subject of the alcohol strategy may have been raised. Commission policy develops in the context of an open democratic exchange where stakeholders and interested parties are entitled to make their views known and to lobby in support of their particular interests. On subjects which enjoy particular attention, the variety and number of ways in which this process takes place can be huge. The Commission has a responsibility to take different views into account as its policy develops, before reaching its own final conclusions in accordance with its Treaty obligations. In order to give stakeholders and Member States the opportunity to put forward their positions related to alcohol harm, the Commission has held extensive consultations. For several years there have been regular separate meetings with networks representing Member States’ experts, the wider alcohol industry and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The objectives of the consultation process have been to gather the opinions and views of all relevant stakeholders on issues to be included in the communication on an EU strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol related harm, and to monitor and assess the implementation of the 2001 Council recommendation on the drinking of alcohol by young people, in particular children and adolescents. It is the Commission's intention to continue to have regular meetings with Member States and all stakeholders in the future, through the Alcohol and Health Forum which shall start its work in June 2007.