situation in the States in which the EBRD operates; 32. Encourages the EBRD to continue to step up its dialogue with democratically elected representatives, both in the European Parliament and at national and regional level; 33. Supports the freezing of current investment plans in countries where the human rights situation is worrying; calls nonetheless for micro-financing projects to be implemented in those countries, so as to help independent small businesses; 34. Welcomes the significant increase in EBRD activities in Yugoslavia and calls on the EBRD, in the context of the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, to assist these countries to step up their contacts still further and to pursue targeted investment in projects which increase trade between the former warring parties in the Balkans; 35. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, as well as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank and the national parliaments of the Member States and the candidate countries. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Comments and expressions of opinion about the activities of this little-known development bank are rare. This may be connected with the fact that the Bank, unlike the European Investment Bank, is not linked to the European Union. Nor is the EBRD a global development bank, akin to the Asiatic Development Bank or the African Development Bank, coming under the umbrella of the World Bank group. Its capital derives instead from more than 60 countries with an interest in the future of Central and Eastern Europe, following the fall of the Berlin Wall. Over the last 12 years of transition the EBRD has had to tackle many challenges. Under the leadership of Jacques Attali, the Bank swiftly became a target of public criticism on account of its ambitious personnel policy and the massive costs of its head office in London. The next President, Jacques Delarosière, restored the institution's credibility. Staff costs remained stable between 1993 and 1998. The doubling of the EBRD's capital to ECU 20 million in 1997 finally demonstrated that the shareholder States accepted the EBRD's policy of consolidation. However, the Bank's funding potential continued to be under-exploited. By 1997 it could show a total of ECU 13.9 billion in pledged funding since starting operations in 1991, but actual commitments (following signature by investors and the Bank) amounted to only ECU 10.2 bn, and actual disbursements were, ultimately, far below the level of commitments, at only ECU 5.9 bn. Horst Koehler had just taken over the helm at the Bank when the Russian crisis broke in 1998. Up to 1997 the Bank had invested in the Russian financial sector in order to reform it from the inside out. The shock was huge. The EBRD had invested substantial sums, and as a result it went into the red for the first time in its history. It later admitted, exercising self-criticism, that certain risks arising from companies' questionable business standards had been underestimated. Similarly, the Bank had overestimated its ability to exercise influence over firms with the aim of raising low business