Question for written answer E-010974/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Nuno Teixeira (PPE) (25 November 2011) Subject: Macroeconomic conditionality in the new cohesion policy (2014-2020) The Commission proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Common Strategic Framework for the Cohesion Policy 2014-2020 (COM(2011) 0615) points to the need to establish ‘a closer link between cohesion policy and the economic governance of the Union’. In the same proposal, the Commission stresses that ‘where […] a Member State fails to take effective action in the context of the economic governance process, the Commission should have the right to suspend all or part of the payments and commitments’. A performance reserve, amounting to 5 % of total Community resources allocated to each Member State, is to be set up, on the understanding that the funds will only be made available where a Member State meets the objectives laid down by the Commission. A number of Member States and leaders of European regions have publicly expressed concern at the prospect of the Commission unilaterally deciding to suspend Community funding. At the opening session of the Open Days held at the European Parliament on 10 October 2011, Commissioner Johannes Hahn said that the effectiveness of investments would not be undermined by macroeconomic conditionalities, given that the criteria for cohesion policy rules would be laid down beforehand. It was also pointed out that the 5 % performance reserve should be seen as a reward for those regions which made the most effective use of the funding available were most successful in implementing the funding. 1. Does the Commission consider it right for regions of a Member State which are correctly implementing Community funds to be penalised by the fact that the country is experiencing macroeconomic difficulties, as a result of which Community could be suspended simply by a unilateral decision of the Commission? 2. How can a 5 % reward be allocated to regions if they have no control over the proper implementation of Community funding where the Member State fails to speed up the utilisation of the relevant appropriations?