to take action if it considered it appropriate, in order to protect the policyholders' interests. The FSA could also seek to be heard if the scheme was taken to court for formal approval after the policyholders' vote. In its assessment of the Compromise Scheme published on 7 December 2001 (WE67), the FSA endorsed the terms of the deal, stating that " it had no reason to intervene to object to the proposals being put to policyholders" and specifying that " the FSA is content that, in relation to the relevant groups of GAR and non-GAR policyholders, the level of increase to policy values is a fair offer in exchange for the GAR rights and potential mis-selling claims that would be given up. While there are variations from person to person, within each relevant group, we are content that there are no categories of policyholder within the groups who would receive disproportionately greater or lesser benefits ..." It concluded that the FSA " firmly believes that a successful compromise would, in principle, offer the best prospect of bringing stability to the with-profits fund and improving the outlook for concerned policyholders ." As far as the complexity of the proposed compromise is concerned, the FSA said it " believed it was important that the Compromise put to policyholders should be clear and should provide them with the information they need to form their own judgement about how to vote on the proposals put to them." However, it acknowledged that " much of the Compromise documentation sent to policyholders for the vote is complex ... We are content that it is sufficiently clear to enable them to form their own view on how they should vote, in the light of their individual circumstances ." The FSA further specified that it could not provide personal advice to policyholders, adding that "where Equitable Life policyholders believe they require assistance in deciding how to vote, they will need to seek independent financial advice ." (WE67) 3e) Complaints by policyholders A large number of non-GAR policyholders and representatives of policyholders' action groups have submitted evidence and complaints about the Compromise Scheme. According to their claims, the Scheme had been devised in such a way as to harm policyholders from the beginning, suggesting that the subsequent policy cuts in April and July 2002 that promptly annihilated the modest uplift the Scheme had awarded them see WE6, WE7, WE-CONF16, WE-CONF. , had been foreseen, if not deliberately planned, by the EL management already when first proposing the Scheme in September 2001. Additionally, the regulator would have been aware of the fact that the proposed uplifts were fictitious, because they were not covered by sufficient assets. Policyholders also complained that they had been led to believe that the with-profits fund would have been stabilized by the Compromise Scheme, a fact which proved to be untrue, as the fund remained subject to market fluctuations and the subsequent stock market fall during 2002. As a result, aggrieved policyholders claimed that after the Scheme was adopted in February 2002, non-GAR policyholders were definitely worse off