maximise its legal costs and to use every available appeal process - with the intimidating risk of the Government’s legal costs being awarded against complainants. Tens of millions of euros would be needed to sue the UK Government and this is evidenced by the cases of BCCI against the Bank of England Detailed information on this case can be found in ES 3, page 94. and by the shareholders in Railtrack who, before being permitted to sue the UK Government for misfeasance, had to pay into Court €3.3m - only made possible with the help of a major financial institution, which would certainly not be available in Equitable’s case ." As mentioned under point IV.1. ELAS instructed a law firm to advise it on the merits of possible claims by the Society and policyholders against the various regulators of the Society, after the Penrose Report was published. Following the advice, which was made available to the committee in WE 71, it decided not to pursue such claims. WE 71 identified a number of potential claims against the prudential regulators Prudential regulators at the relevant time were the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry acting through the Department of Trade and Industry (up to 5th January 1998) and thereafter HM Treasury, the relevant functions of which were contracted out to the Financial Services Authority (FSA). and assessed the likelihood that these could be successful: · Breach of statutory duty under the Insurance Companies Act 1982 (ICA). WE 71 considers that the Society does not have any claim in this regard, " since (i) it cannot be said that the regulator failed to consider whether to exercise its powers of intervention under the ICA 1982 or that no rational prudential regulator could have acted in the way in which it did; and (ii) the ICA 1982 does not confer private law remedies on the Society ". · According to WE 71, the Society would not have a claim in common law negligence either, " since (i) there is nothing in the Report to indicate that anything which the prudential regulators did, or forbore from doing, fell outside the ambit of their powers; and (ii) the regulators had no duty to hold the Society harmless from any loss which it might have suffered as a result of the shortcomings in prudential regulation identified in the Report ". · Claims for misfeasance in public office would also be unlikely to succeed, according to WE 71: " There is nothing ... to suggest that any one or more of the individuals employed by the prudential regulators exercised power unlawfully, specifically intending to injure the Society, or with reckless indifference to the possibility of such injury. " Pursuant to the Financial Services Act 1986 (FSA), the conduct of business regulator The conduct of business regulator at the relevant time was the Personal Investment Authority, the relevant functions of which were contracted out to the FSA. has limited statutory immunity. Thus, claims against it are precluded by the FSA 1986 unless the act or omission is shown to