Regulation shall apply, in situations involving a conflict of laws, to divorce and legal separation. 1. This Regulation shall apply in situations involving a conflict of laws, to divorce , legal separation and annulment of marriage . Justification There are certain situations where it is important for the woman that she is not yet divorced. A broadening of the scope would therefore be welcome. (The next sentence does not apply to the English text). Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The agreement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be expressed in writing, dated and signed by both spouses. Any communication by electronic means which provides a durable record of the agreement shall be deemed equivalent to writing. 3. The agreement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be expressed in writing, dated and signed by both spouses and authenticated by a notary . Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Where the law applicable pursuant to Article 3 or Article 4 makes no provision for divorce or does not grant one of the spouses equal access to divorce or legal separation on grounds of their sex, the lex fori shall apply. Where the law applicable pursuant to Article 3 or Article 4 makes no provision for divorce or for legal separation or does not grant one of the spouses equal access or ensure equal treatment relating to divorce or legal separation on grounds of their sex, the lex fori shall apply. Justification To protect the fundamental rights of both women and men, equal access and equal treatment must be guaranteed during divorce or legal separation. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Application of a provision of the law designated by virtue of this Regulation may be refused only if such application is manifestly incompatible with the public policy of the forum. Application of a provision of the law designated by virtue of this Regulation may be refused only if such application is manifestly incompatible with the public policy of the forum. However, the courts should not be able to apply the public-policy exception in order to disregard the law of another Member State when to do so would be contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and in particular Article 21 thereof, which prohibits all forms of discrimination, and Article 23 thereof, which requires equality between men and women to be ensured in all areas. Justification In order to respect the fundamental rights of European citizens, it is important to limit the public-policy exception. PROCEDURE Title Implementation of enhanced cooperation procedure regarding law applicable to divorce and legal separation References COM(2010)0105 – C7-0315/2010 – 2010/0067(CNS) Committee responsible JURI Opinion by Date announced in plenary FEMM 7.10.2010 Rapporteur Date appointed Angelika Niebler 4.5.2010 Discussed in committee 28.10.2010 30.11.2010 Date adopted 30.11.2010 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 20 2 Members present for the final vote Andrea Češková, Marije Cornelissen,