Answer given by Mr De Gucht on behalf of the Commission (20 December 2010) 1. Supply of rare earth elements originating in China is a long-standing issue. The Commission indeed finds the development of Chinese export policies alarming, and has been following the matter with great attention. 2. The Commission has been using all possible channels to address the rare earths issue, well before the embargo allegations. While the existence of an embargo could not be uniformly confirmed, the Commissioner responsible for Trade has written twice on this matter to Chen Deming, the Chinese Minister for Commerce (the latest letter being addressed also to other Chinese Ministers). The Commissioner responsible for Trade has also raised it at each occasion he had a personal meeting with him. The President of the Commission at his level also raised the matter at the EU‑China summit in Brussels, and Chinese Premier Wen responded that China would not impose a total ban on Chinese rare earths exports, but wanted a more sustainable administration of its own resources to avoid their exhaustion. In addition, the EU officials continue dealing with the matte at operational level with their Chinese counterparts. Due to the high sensitivity of the matter, including its potential World Trade Organisation (WTO) implications, and in order to preserve the EU's negotiating interests at this crucial stage, it is however not possible to share the EU's correspondence on this matter at the current time. 3. As explained in the Commission's answer to the Honourable Member's Written Question E‑3608/2010 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB , sustainable supply of raw materials has become one of the EU priorities and is tackled in the communication ‘Raw Materials Initiative — meeting our critical needs for growth and jobs in Europe’ COM(2008)699, November 2008. . Among the communication's three pillars, trade policy action on market access to supplies focuses on three strands: integration of rules in trade negotiations, enforcement of the rules and tackling of barriers, and reaching out to third countries. Following the most recent export quota reductions, the Commission is exploring relevant options to address this problem, also in light of implications for the EU industry. The Commission services are currently in contact with Member States and EU business on these aspects. In addition, the Commission encourages Member States to further develop domestic resources. Research and development and innovation actions are in place ie as regards finding alternative solutions in order to reduce the demand of rare earth elements in key technologies. In order to find currently unknown deposits within the EU and to increase resource efficiency including mining, minerals processing and recycling, the Commission is also in contact with Geological Surveys and the research community. Moreover, the Commission will continue to strengthen cooperation in the area of research and innovation with the United States and Japan. At EU political level, the Commission continue to raise the issue with my Chinese counterpart, Minister Chen Deming. At operational level, the EU will also continue to use all relevant bilateral contacts with China to strive to secure adequate supply of rare earths. The newly established EU‑China