WRITTEN QUESTION E-1882/07 by David Hammerstein Mintz (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (11 April 2007) Subject: The troubles of Sierra Escalona, Orihuela — Alicante The Alicante Town and County Planning Commission has returned a favourable opinion on the PAU 21 proposal to build a golf course and 2 286 houses for a planned population of 8 000. The opinion in question does not carry the required authorisation of the Confederación Hidrográfica del Segura, nor is drinking water guaranteed (Mancomunidad de Canales de Taibilla). Furthermore, illegal ploughing has been going on in the Escalona hills, over a surface of 179 hectares, since 2001. The deforestation is being carried out on specially protected, non-building land; 97 of the 179 hectares form part of the SCI. The PAU 21 sector forms part of the proposed extension of the ‘Sierra Escalona y Dehesa de Campoamor’ SCI, which was also to have been declared a special bird protection area (SBPA). Various groups have requested that this area be declared non-building land, with strict forestry protection — due to its natural beauty and ecological value. The area contains magnificent natural Aleppo pine ( pinus halepensis ) woods, a kermes oak grove with lentiscus and fan palms in good preservation, thyme-beds and meadows rich in local species. The river beds and water courses provide shelter for important plant growth, including tamarind groves. The Sierra de Escalona — Dehesa de Campoamor is an integral part of an IBA (listed as No 168). The species include Bonelli’s eagles, booted eagles, golden eagles and pharaoh eagle owls. The Commission’s position is that IBAs classified by SEO/Birdlife should be protected as SBPAs under the Birds Directive. This natural area meets all the necessary requirements for being declared a nature reserve. Its international importance is obvious from the fact that Birdlife International includes it as a migration area for birds of prey. Is the Commission aware of the situation? What steps does it intend to take to ensure that European legislation is complied with?