Commission also passes formal complaints it receives on to SOLVIT if there is a good chance that the problem could be solved without legal action. See: http://ec.europa.eu/solvit/site/index_en.htm mechanism is also used In its resolution on the Commission's 21st and 22nd Annual reports on monitoring the application of Community law (P6(2006)202), the EP noted the SOLVIT network has proved its effectiveness as a complementary non-judicial mechanism which has increased voluntary cooperation among Member States, but considers that such mechanisms should not be regarded as a substitute for infringement proceedings (para.18). . Other fora where the Commission gathers information include the standing technical or comitology committees set up under various Directives. For example, there is an Internal Market Advisory Committee, which brings together officials from the Member States with an overall responsibility for the internal market. There are also networks of regulators and officials, or groups of experts, such as the national competition network in the field of competition policy. In the financial services sector, the Lamfalussy approach serves as an additional means to help ensure effective and convergent implementation of EU legislation across Member States. At level 3, it includes networking between regulators with a view to producing joint interpretative recommendations, consistent guidelines and common standards, peer reviews and comparisons between regulatory practice to foster consistent implementation and application. As Mrs MINOR put it, " regulators and supervisors ... cooperate in the day-to-day application of Community legislation. Once the measures have been transposed and being applied on a daily basis, there are regular meetings of regulators see explanations on CEIOPS in Part IV. " . The Commission has repeatedly stated that it cannot assume the role of supervising national authorities or individual entities on a systematic basis. The Commission claims that, with the current staff resources at its disposal, it is not feasible to send out teams of officials in search of cases of incorrect application throughout the 27 Member States. Only in certain special sectors, such as fisheries and human health, do inspectors carry out on-the-spot checks. For most other areas, the Commission tries instead to encourage Member States' regulators and supervisors to work more closely together by carrying out peer reviews, adopting Protocols or Memorandums of Understanding for the coordinated application of specific directives and generally pursuing a policy of supervisory convergence. The hope is that problems of incorrect application of Community legislation will be detected at an earlier stage. "Les services de la Commission développent des méthodes proactives pour déceler ces cas de mauvaise application. Compte tenu de ses moyens, cette tâche n'est pas aisée. Mais par exemple, si un problème se présente dans quelques États membres, nous procédons à la vérification de la situation dans les autres États membres ." H10 Verbatim, Mrs. DURAND, page 7, par.7. On the overall consistency of EC law application, Mr. AYRAL (H10) stated that " nous n'avons pas le pouvoir d'intervention auprès des États membres pour nous assurer qu'ils respectent, qu'ils appliquent la législation de la même manière. Nous pouvons nous assurer qu'ils appliquent correctement la législation, mais nous ne pouvons pas nous