Answer given by Mr Kovács on behalf of the Commission (13 May 2008) In answering the question by the Honourable Member, the Commission would firstly draw attention to the opportunities the current EC legislation gives to Member States to set their national rates at levels which they consider appropriate for pursuing national policy objectives, including objectives which may relate to health and social policy concerns. Council Directive 92/84/EEC which deals with rates of alcohol taxation lays down a system of minimum rates. As long as these minimum rates are complied with, Member States have the discretion to set their taxation at the levels which they consider best fitted to their national situation. Consequently if a Member State considers that rates of alcohol duty need to be fixed with health and social concerns in mind then the existing structure of EC legislation gives them the liberty to do so. Secondly, it is worth noting that the Commission report on the rates of excise duty applied on alcohol and alcoholic beverages COM(2004)223 final. Report from the Commission to the Council, Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee on the rates of excise duty applied on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. , confirmed that a large majority of Member States do not refer to such considerations as a basis of taxation policy. It must be recognised that there are significant cultural differences and divergent views across the Community as to the benefits and problems associated to alcohol consumption. This is underscored by the wide differences in the national policies towards alcohol taxation. Nevertheless, the Commission feared that without an adjustment for inflation the minimum rates could eventually become meaningless, which would lead to greater cross-border shopping and smuggling, which in turn could undermine the national tax policies of Member States. Consequently the Commission made a proposal COM (2006) 486. Proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 92/84/EEC on the approximation of the rates of excise duty on alcohol and alcoholic beverages. in 2006 increasing minimum rates by 31 % to take account of inflation since the directive was adopted in 1992. However some Member States were not in favour of the proposal, noting that to revalorise from 1992 ignored that the new Member States had acceded more recently. Because of this a compromise was tabled that took 2004 as the basis which would mean a 4.5 % increase in the minimum rates. Despite the modesty of such an increase it has yet to obtain the unanimous consent of the Member States, which is a necessary condition for the amendment of the directive. Nonetheless, the Commission remains hopeful that unanimity can eventually be obtained.