Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (24 June 2005) The application of Community rules on free movement and of the provisions on non-discrimination of the association agreements to sport is purely the result of case law of the European Court of Justice. If the sport involves gainful employment it will be subject to Community law, or to the provisions of non-discrimination of the association agreements. In this judgment (C‑265/03 of 12 April 2005, Igor Simutenkov v. Ministerio de Educación y Cultura and Real Federación Española de Futból ), the Court follows and affirms the interpretation taken in its earlier judgments, in particular Case C‑438/00 Deutscher Handballbund eV v. Maros Kolpak , judgment of 8 May 2003. (The case concerned the interpretation, within the area of sport, of the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality set out in the association agreement between the European Communities and Slovakia.) It appears that the European Economic Community (EEC) association agreements with third countries contain provisions on non-discrimination on grounds of nationality as regards working conditions and remuneration of workers who are legally employed in a Member State. Football players, as well as other sport professionals from these countries, can benefit from the Bosman case in that legally employed professional players would not be discriminated against when playing in a Member State. This means e.g. that players who are nationals of a country which has concluded an association agreement with the Community cannot be excluded from the team sent out on the field on the basis of their nationality. The Court held that a rule such as that drawn up by the Spanish Federation relates to working conditions and that a limited opportunity for Russian players, in comparison with players who are nationals of an EEA Member State, to take part in certain matches involves discrimination prohibited by the association agreement. Such discrimination cannot be justified on sporting grounds. According to case law of the Court, the only exception which the Court has made to the general rule of non-discrimination is that in matches which are purely of sporting, rather than economic, interest (e.g. matches between national teams) excluding foreign players for exclusively sports-related reasons may be justified. The Commission services elaborated a list which illustrates the agreements between the Community and third countries which contain ‘equal treatment clauses’. This list is sent direct to the Honourable Member and to Parliament’s Secretariat. 2. According to the procedure for conclusion of agreements between the Community and one or more States or international organisations laid down by Article 300 of the EC Treaty Article 228 — EC Treaty (Maastricht consolidated version) or Article 228 — EEC Treaty. , except for the agreements referred to in Article 133(3), including cases where the agreement covers a field for which the procedure referred to in Article 251 or that referred to in Article 252 is required for the adoption of internal rules, the Council shall conclude agreements after consulting Parliament. Parliament shall deliver its opinion within a time limit which the Council may lay down according to