Justification It is necessary to evaluate the EDCTP programme in the context of its impact on the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis (EC Programme for Action on Communicable Diseases in the context of poverty reduction). Amendment 29 Annex, point 1 1. Activities linked to networking and coordination: 1. Activities linked to networking and coordination: ∙ of European national programmes; ∙ of European national programmes; ∙ of the activities carried out in the developing countries. ∙ of the activities carried out in the developing countries. These activities are aimed at strengthening the two main components of the EDCTP Programme: programmes/activities in Europe on the one hand and in the developing countries on the other. The programme shall be implemented in close cooperation with researchers from the developing countries and public-health officials, who shall be represented by means of a developing-country coordination committee within the EDCTP programme. These activities are aimed at strengthening the two main components of the EDCTP Programme: programmes/activities in Europe on the one hand and in the developing countries on the other. Networking and coordination activities will primarily be project focused. Justification - Public-health experts and officials in the partner developing countries must be involved in the implementation of the EDCTP programme through their involvement in the developing- country coordination committee. - The EDCTP should not engage in networking for networking’s sake. The platform should focus on products and outputs rather than structures. Amendment 30 Annex, point 2 2. Activities linked directly to the development of new products against the three diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis) : ∙ support for clinical trials in the developing countries; ∙ strengthening of capacities in the developing countries. 2. Activities linked directly to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products against the three diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis) and their contributing factors: ∙ support for clinical trials in the developing countries; ∙ strengthening of capacities in the developing countries ; ∙ support for transfer of technology to the developing countries. The new products shall be developed in such a way as to be suited to the specific requirements of the developing countries i.e. they must be effective, easy to use and as cheap as possible, so that people in developing countries can afford to buy them. Justification - Transfer of technology is an indispensable element of any solution that pretends to be efficient and sustainable. Conditions of life, and there for of care and treatment, of people affected by HIV/AIDS, malaria and/or tuberculosis in developing countries radically differ from developed countries. 27 November 2002 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEN’S RIGHTS AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on Community participation in a research and development programme aimed at developing new clinical interventions to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis through a long-term partnership between Europe and the developing countries, undertaken by a number of Member States and Norway ( COM(2002) 474 – C5-0392/2002 – 2002/0211(COD)) Draftsperson: Jillian Evans PROCEDURE The Committee on Women’s