transparent and forward-thinking manner and hence to make the principle of reciprocity the general rule in the Union’s trading relations; 41. Stresses that legislation seeking to include environmental matters in economic policies and strategies should allow the Member States scope for flexibility in the choice of economic and financial instruments; 42. Believes that, as regards the measures to be taken, especially in the WTO, it is necessary to allow for the context obtaining in, and the specific characteristics of, each sector, the opportunities and challenges that may arise, and the difficulties posed for individual Member States; 43. Calls on the Member States and the Commission to pursue sustainable development objectives by bringing economic, social, and environmental aspects into an even balance; 44. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT A strong and healthy manufacturing sector is essential to fully exploit EU's potential. EU manufacturing industry provides around 20% of EU output and employs some 34 million people. Over 80% of EU private sector R&D expenditures are spent in manufacturing. Manufacturing generates new and innovative products that provide some 75% of EU exports. Manufacturing consists of many SMEs: over 99% of companies and 58% of manufacturing employment are SMEs. Although European manufacturing has a huge potential for generating wealth and jobs, it faces rapid technological change and intense and growing competitive pressure, both in the high-tech, and in the more mature sectors. Though a majority of individual manufacturing sectors perform well, the general make-up of EU manufacturing industry leaves it less than ideally positioned in the global context. Even if relocations of jobs to low-cost countries have been limited in most manufacturing sectors, the mounting international competition for R&D spending and foreign direct investment is a matter of considerable concern. Creating the right conditions in which the manufacturing industry can flourish in Europe is therefore an essential, but also a complex challenge. What has been missing in the palette of new programmes in the framework of the Lissabon-programme is an effort to target sectoral industry issues, particularly in manufacturing industry, and provide a basis for sectoral or vertical support measures. With this communication the Commission sets out to meet this need. This Communication sets out an outline of work for industrial policy in manufacturing industries for the coming years. The analysed manufacturing sectors are grouped into four broad industry areas: Food and life science industries, Machine and system industries, Fashion and design industries, and Basic and intermediate goods industries. Within those areas, 27 individual sectors of manufacturing and the construction industry are screened in detail, using key factors for furthering competitiveness and development, such as: knowledge, better regulation, environment and energy, trade and structural change. On the basis of this screening, concrete recommendations for sectoral actions are made to promote growth, productivity and competitiveness in each of the sectors analysed. In addition, 7 major cross-sectoral policy initiatives are proposed, in order to meet the common challenges and reinforce the synergies: · Intellectual Property Rights and Counterfeiting