Question for written answer E-000909/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Nikolaos Chountis (GUE/NGL) (2 February 2012) Subject: Arrests of lecturers, students and journalists in Turkey The Turkish Government has recently made a series of arrests involving lecturers, students and journalists. Typical cases are those of the History lecturer at Marmara University, Busra Ersanli, and the writer and publisher, Ragip Zarakolou, who are accused of participating in the organisation of terrorist activities. The evidence used against Ms Ersanli are the notes she kept when teaching at a series of seminars organised by the BDP Party; the evidence used against Mr Zarakolou is his participation as Vice-President of the Human Rights Association of Turkey in a demonstration by the same Party. There are also reports of many students having been arrested, such as Seyma Ozcan, a student in the History Department of Bosphorus University, the only evidence against her being a telephone conversation and a sign proclaiming the right to a free education. Similar treatment has been meted out to numerous journalists, such as Ahmet Sik and Nadim Sener, because they revealed the links between Islamists and the new ‘deep state’, which is known as the Ergenekon case. Given that, in its answer to my previous question (E‑7426/10), the Commission stated that: ‘The interpretation of the anti-terrorist legislation in Turkey is too wide. This has led to prosecutions, convictions and arrest of defendants for acts which fall within the remit of freedom of expression, freedom of association and/or freedom of assembly’, and to my question (E‑5792/09) that: ‘The Commission will continue closely to monitor this case as regards the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression, freedom of association and the rights of defendants’: 1. Is the Commission aware of the aforementioned arrests and what comments does it have to make on them? At what stage in the legal proceedings are the cases in question and what action does it intend to take to ensure the immediate release of the Turkish citizens in question? 2. Can the Commission tell us whether Turkey has made any changes to the Criminal Code, in particular Articles 220 and 314, and to Article 7/2 of the Anti - Terrorism Law? Does it consider that progress has been made as regards prosecutions, convictions and arrests for acts which fall within the remit of freedom of expression, freedom of association and/or freedom of assembly?