adopted, P6_TA(2008)0033 . , – having regard to its resolution of 15 January 2008 on CARS 21: A Competitive Automotive Regulatory Framework Texts adopted, P6_TA(2008)0007 . , – having regard to its resolution of 14 December 2006 on a European strategy for sustainable, competitive and secure energy - Green Paper OJ C 317 E, 23.12.2006, p. 876. , – having regard to its resolution of 1 June 2006 on e nergy efficiency or doing more with less - Green Paper OJ C 298 E, 8.12.2006, p. 273. , – having regard to its resolution of 14 March 2006 on a European information society for growth and employment OJ C 291 E, 30.11.2006, p. 133. , – having regard to Rule 108(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the EU has set the target of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% and of deriving 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020, and whereas it has also turned its efforts towards achieving a 20% improvement in energy efficiency within the same period, B. whereas it has been calculated that the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) could save more than 50 million tonnes of CO2 annually, C. whereas the above targets are to be achieved without detriment to the competitiveness and sustainability of the EU economy, D. whereas the EU has set itself the goal of becoming the most competitive knowledge‑based economy by 2010, and whereas economic competitiveness is greatly dependent on energy efficiency and the use of ICTs, E. whereas improving energy efficiency is one of the most economic means of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, and whereas energy efficiency can lead directly to savings for consumers, F. whereas ICTs have a key role to play in improving energy efficiency locally and globally and in the industrialised and the emerging economies (in particular by means of intelligent networks and intelligent buildings and the technological upgrading of the production processes of energy‑intensive industries), and having regard to the potential for savings offered by intelligent transport systems in the case of manufacturing industry and transport, G. whereas the ICT sector currently produces 2% of global CO2 emissions, and whereas the industry would be capable not only of reducing its own CO2 emissions, but in particular of developing innovative and more energy-efficient applications for the economy as a whole, H. whereas technology neutrality should be respected in order to ensure that all relevant ICT-based technologies are available to assist the EU in meeting its greenhouse-gas emissions targets, placeI. whereas the ICT industry offers tools that have a key role to play in monitoring any system’s performance as compared with its energy consumption, J. whereas there are already several EU programmes and initiatives in existence which support ICT research and innovation in energy matters (Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP7), the ICT policy support programme and the European operational programmes for intelligent energy), and whereas tax incentives and appropriate State-support instruments also provide financial backing and encouragement for intelligent energy-efficiency solutions, K. whereas industry and small- and medium-sized undertakings (SMUs) have