in general, be that of the country of commitment, i.e. the country where the policyholder has his/her habitual residence in order to ensure that the contract is governed by law with which the policyholder is familiar. Furthermore, " when a Community insurer establishes a branch in, or provides services into, another Member State , that host Member State may require that its conduct of business rules that are justified by the general good should be respected. These rules must be notified to the competent authorities of the insurer's home State (see Article 40(4)), so that the home authority can inform the insurer accordingly. In addition the host Member State may ask for ex post and non-systematic notification of the policy conditions used by an insurer in its territory 'for the purpose of verifying compliance with national provisions concerning assurance contracts' (Article 45) " (WE 41 Page 3. ). The Commission provides guidance on the application of the concept of the general good in the insurance sector through an interpretative Communication Commission Interpretative Communication on the freedom to provide services and the general good in the insurance sector (2000/C 43/03). . The right of home Member States to apply their rules in the interest of the general good is referred to in several places in the 3LD, for instance as regards advertising, where it is stipulated in Article 47 that " insurers can advertise their products in the host country subject to any rules governing the form and content of such advertising adopted in the interest of the general good ". The 3LD also lays down requirements in terms of minimum information that must be provided to the policyholder before the contract is concluded and throughout the term of the contract (see Article 36 in connection with Annex III). The information includes inter alia the arrangements for handling complaints. According to Article 36(3), information in addition to that listed in Annex III may be required by the host Member State if it is necessary for a proper understanding of the essential elements of the contract. The implementation of the requirements laid down in Article 36 in connection with Annex III of Directive therefore falls within the competence and responsibility of the Member State of the commitment. " The law of the country of the branch will thus dictate the content and form of the information to be provided to customers of the branch and would be used to assess any allegation of mis-selling " (Mr TERTÀK, H1). Annex III stipulates that the information must be provided in writing and (normally) in an official language of the Member State where the policyholder has his/her residence. In H7 Mr BEVERLY from the Commission specified that there are " very detailed provisions in the directive about the information that must be provided to policyholders in their own language ". " This is precisely the role of the host Member State – to make sure that its general good rules are being enforced. This, I would argue, is a joint responsibility of the home and the host