should not be able to apply the public-policy exception in order to disregard a provision of the law of another State when to do so would be contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and in particular Article 21 thereof, which prohibits all forms of discrimination. Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Recital 21 a (new) (21a) Where this Regulation refers to the circumstance that the law of the participating Member State whose court is seised does not provide for divorce, this should be interpreted as meaning that the law of that Member State does not encompass the institution of divorce. In such a case, the court should not be obliged to pronounce a decree of divorce by virtue of this Regulation. Where this Regulation refers to the circumstance that the law of the participating Member State whose court is seised does not deem the marriage in question valid for the purposes of divorce proceedings, this should be interpreted as meaning inter alia that such a marriage does not exist under the law of that Member State. In such a case, the court should not be obliged to pronounce a decree of divorce or order a legal separation by virtue of this Regulation. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Recital 22 (22) Since there are States and participating Member States in which two or more systems of law or sets of rules concerning matters governed by this Regulation coexist, there should be a provision governing the extent to which this Regulation applies in the different territorial units of those States and participating Member States. (22) Since there are States and participating Member States in which two or more systems of law or sets of rules concerning matters governed by this Regulation coexist, there should be a provision governing the extent to which this Regulation applies in the different territorial units of those States and participating Member States , or the extent to which this Regulation applies to different categories of persons of those States and participating Member States . Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Recital 22 a (new) (22a) In the absence of rules designating the applicable law, spouses choosing the law of the State of the nationality of one of them should at the same time indicate, where the State whose law is chosen comprises several territorial units each of which has its own system of law or a set of rules in respect of divorce, which territorial unit's law they have agreed upon. Amendment 29 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 – paragraph 1a (new) 1a. This Regulation shall not apply to the following matters, even if they arise merely as a preliminary question within the context of divorce or legal separation proceedings: (a) the legal capacity of natural persons; (b) the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage; (c) the annulment of a marriage; (d) the name of the spouses; (e) the property consequences of the marriage; (f) parental responsibility; (g) maintenance obligations; (h) trusts or successions. Amendment 30 Proposal for a regulation Article