the auctioning revenue for Member States, reminds governments that there is no limit on the proportion of such money that can be spent on climate-related purposes, and recommends that the sums concerned be used to spur low-carbon investment in industry or to encourage other means of job creation, e.g. reducing taxes on labour; 26. Calls on the Commission to put forward proposals by the end of 2013 for extending, to those energy-intensive industries that face only minimal threat from overseas competition, the requirement that allowances be purchased through auction; 27. Calls on the Commission to ensure that legislation impacting the incentives provided for under the ETS, e.g. the Energy Efficiency Directive (COD/2011/0172), is monitored, and that the reduction requirement is adjusted accordingly; 28. Acknowledges that, in order to achieve the targets of the Low Carbon Roadmap, not only the ETS but also the Effort Sharing Decision (Decision No 406/2009/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council) will have to be adjusted; Carbon leakage 29. Calls on the Commission to publish details of the EU’s real contribution to reducing global CO 2 emissions since 1990, taking into account its consumption of products now manufactured elsewhere; 30. Insists that the transition to a low-carbon economy should be underpinned by a reasonable and measured regulatory approach; affirms that administratively and financially burdensome environmental compliance has a significant impact on employment and output in energy-intensive sectors, and increases the risk of carbon leakage, while also forcing businesses and therefore jobs out of the EU; 31. Concurs with the Commission’s view that border adjustment measures or measures including imports in the ETS would need to be combined with full auctioning to the sectors concerned; calls on the Commission to produce an analysis of sectors for which free allocation of allowances fails to prevent carbon leakage; recommends that the Commission put forward proposals for border adjustment measures requiring importers of products in these sectors to purchase allowances equivalent to those which would have been required if the product had been manufactured in the EU; 32. Calls on the Commission to provide Member States with guidance for the adoption of any measures intended to compensate industries proven to be exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage for indirect costs relating to greenhouse gas emissions as foreseen in the directive as soon as possible; 33. Calls on the Commission to produce an analysis of the absence of the geographical criterion in the carbon leakage assessment for the electricity market in south-east Europe; 34. Notes the roadmap’s conclusion that the power sector should decarbonise almost completely by 2050 (93-99 % emissions reduction); recognises that, from an EU industrial perspective, first movers on low-emission technologies have a competitive advantage in today's and tomorrow’s low-carbon world; notes that emissions reductions should therefore be achieved in a way which does not harm the EU’s competitiveness and addresses the risk of carbon leakage, especially in energy-intensive sectors; Energy e fficiency 35. Recalls the existing assessments which indicate that improving energy efficiency and reducing energy use by 20 % compared to 2020 projections is