Answer given by Mr Byrne on behalf of the Commission (7 July 2003) There are at present no Community regulations determining the content of sausages and the Commission has no plans to put forward a proposal in this regard. The Commission is aware, however, that certain Member States have national rules governing the content of sausages marketed in their territory. It should be noted, however, that in the framework of the Common Market Organisation for Pigmeat quality criteria for the export of certain sausages for which an export refund is granted are laid down in Commission Regulation (EC) No 2331/97 of 25 November 1997 on special conditions for granting export refunds on certain pigmeat products OJ L 323, 26.11.1997 . . These criteria concern the animal protein by weight, the extraneous water content by weight and the collagen/protein ratio of the eligible products falling under CN-code 1601. In relation to hygienic production of sausage meat and sausages, the meat used in sausage meat must fully comply with current Community rules, in particular, with rules on meat hygiene and bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). Fresh sausage and sausage meat must meet the relevant harmonised rules for minced meat and meat preparations. This includes the carrying out of checks on raw materials entering the establishment to ensure compliance with certain composition (fat content, collagen meat protein ratio) and microbiological criteria. Member States may, while ensuring that Community health requirements are observed and that such products are sold in their territory, have certain flexibility regarding their production and placing on the market in order to take account of particular habits of consumption. Sausages, which have undergone treatment such that the cut surface shows that the product no longer has the characteristics of fresh meat, must have been produced in accordance with Community rules on meat products. So-called specified BSE risk material, such as skull and spinal cord of bovine, ovine and caprine animals, have not been allowed in any food or feed since 1 October 2000. At the moment, the entire set of Community rules on food hygiene has been recast into a limited number of proposals, which are under review in the Parliament and in the Council (First reading).