As the process of globalisation continues apace, the EU must contend with a wide variety of external challenges. A distinction can be made between "traditional" challenges linked to EU enlargement, countries on the EU's external borders and development spending, and "new" challenges linked to the rise of emerging economies such and India and China, and issues such as energy dependence and the threat of global terrorism. The rapporteur also wishes to stress that the EU's external policy actions should not be seen in a vacuum. In many areas, cooperation with other key international actors, notably the US, is necessary to ensure coherent and co-ordinated external policies. "Traditional" challenges 4. The EU's external policies, and external spending, have tended to be focussed upon key challenges relating to enlargement, neighbouring regions and development co-operation. 5. The process of enlarging the EU, and seeking to foster stability in and stable relations with countries around the EU's external border have been a major focus of EU external relations policy and spending in recent decades. Table 1 (below) shows that pre-accession and neighbourhood policies are due to account for a major share (about 40 percent) of EU external relations spending during the next MFF. 6. Development co-operation has been, and continues to be, a major element of EU external policy and spending. Table 1 indicates that the development co-operation instrument is likely to account for around 30 percent of EU external spending during the next MFF. It is, however, difficult to give one single figure for EU spending on development co-operation. For example, roughly EUR 500 million annually is spent on humanitarian assistance. Outside of the MFF, the ninth European Development Fund (EDF) contributes EUR 13.5 billion over 5 years for African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) partner countries. EU member states also provide large amounts of development assistance through bilateral channels. 7. These "traditional" challenges include crucially important EU contributions in the field of foreign policy. The rapporteur does not question in any way the role that the EU enlargement process has played, and continues to play, in bringing stability, democracy and prosperity to the continent of Europe. Nor does he question the value of EU development co-operation assistance that seeks to meet pressing challenges such as the Millennium Development Goals. "New"challenges 8. However, the globalising world economy is creating new challenges. EU external policies need to move with the times and adapt to shifting global trends. Without a clear strategy, including the financial means to deal with these challenges, there is a risk that the EU's role will be weakened. This working document will focus briefly on three such challenges: (i) The role of emerging economies such as China and India 9. The Chinese economy is now of a comparable size to that of the UK or France. China's competitive advantage in manufacturing production due to its vast resources of labour has major implications for global trade flows and the location of production. India is developing a services sector, particularly in information and communications technology, that is also changing the way that many EU and US