Question for written answer E-011728/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Giommaria Uggias (ALDE) and Niccolò Rinaldi (ALDE) (12 December 2011) Subject: Clarification concerning the answer to Question E‑009347/2011 (Notification to Commission of ‘tax shield’) With regard to the Commission's answer of 16 November 2011 to my written question of 7 October 2011, entitled Notification to Commission of ‘tax shield’ E‑009347/2011, can the Commission clarify the following? 1. Does it not appear that the first paragraph, in which the Commission says it ‘has come to the preliminary conclusion that the beneficiaries of the Tax Shield are mainly physical persons who are not subject to the state aid rules contained in the Treaty’, thus apparently excluding any possibility of breach by beneficiaries of the tax shield on the grounds that they are not companies, contradicts the second paragraph, which states: ‘As the case is still under examination, the Commission will inform the Honourable Member once it has reached a definitive view as to whether the measure in question constitutes an aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) TFEU’? 2. According to constant jurisprudence, the concept of a ‘company’ includes any entity exercising an economic activity, irrespective of that entity's legal status or mode of functioning (see the Höfner and Elser, Wouters, and other cases). This means that persons such as self-employed workers, lawyers and liberal professionals may be defined as such: even if they are beneficiaries of the tax shield, the rules on state aids may be applied to them. Can the Commission confirm that this is so? If not, can it justify its view with detailed arguments? 3. Is the Commission aware of the existence of the concept of individual enterprise in Italy? Where a beneficiary of the tax shield is an individual enterprise, can that beneficiary be subject to the rules on state aid? Can the Commission confirm that this is so? If not, can it justify its view with detailed arguments? In view of the above, is it a sufficient response to argue that the beneficiaries of the tax shield are ‘mainly’ physical persons who are not subject to the rules on state aid contained in the Treaty, thus also excluding from the scope of competition law those others who are not physical persons?