UK regulatory authorities are governed by English law which is responsible for determining whether and under which conditions a non-UK policyholder can recover losses. It should be noted however in this context that Member States are bound by the fundamental principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality laid down in Article 12 EC and thus, differential treatment against policy holders who are not resident in the UK would be liable to be indirect discrimination on grounds of nationality " (ES 3). As stated above, several witnesses highlighted the legal hurdles and financial risks involved in pursuing claims against the UK regulator, even for UK citizens. In respect of non-UK citizens it was stated that " the legal environment in the UK is not only unfamiliar to most [of them] but also considerably riskier than their home legal environment " (see Mr LAKE, H1). Evidence suggests that no non-UK policyholders have taken legal action against the UK regulator. X Potential remedies for ELAS victims under EU law This part deals with remedies available to policyholders under EU law. Firstly, it investigates, whether secondary law, such as for instance the Third Life Directives itself, provide for redress mechanisms. Secondly, the report focuses on the system of judicial protection under primary EU law with regard to loss and damage caused to individuals by breaches of Community law. Finally, the committee looks at coordination mechanisms at EU level, such as FIN-NET, which was established to facilitate the treatment of cross-border consumer complaints. 1. The Third Life Directive As stated previously, Article 36 (Article 31 of Directive 92/96/EEC) requires Member States to lay down detailed rules in order to ensure that policyholders receive adequate information before the assurance contract is concluded. After the conclusion of the contract, policyholders have the right to be kept informed throughout the term of the contract of any change concerning relevant information related to the contract. This Article should be read in combination with Annex III of the Directive (Annex II of Directive 92/96/EEC). The Annex states that the information to be communicated to the policyholder must be provided in a clear and accurate manner, in writing, in an official language of the Member State of the commitment. Section A of that annex lists the information that must be communicated to the policyholder before the contract is concluded, whereas Section B lists the information that must be given to the policyholder during the term of the contract. Under Article 36(3) of the Directive, the Member State of commitment may require the insurance company to furnish additional information to that specified in the Annex " only if it is necessary for a proper understanding by the policyholder of the essential elements of the commitment ". ES 3 Page 88. contends that the minimum disclosure requirements laid down in the Directive are sufficiently precise and thus grant rights to individuals vis-à-vis insurance companies, which may be enforced once implemented into national law. However, Directive 2002/83/EC does not itself provide for any contractual remedies in favour of policyholders. Hence, " the remedies available for breach