the full involvement of the Scientific Council. This will include the process and criteria for the selection of the members of the Scientific Council. The review will explicitly look at the advantages and disadvantages of a structure based on an Executive Agency, and a structure based on Article 171 of the Treaty. On the basis of this review, these structures and mechanisms should be modified as appropriate. The Commission will ensure that all the necessary preparatory work , including any legislative proposals which it considers necessary, is undertaken and presented to the European Parliament and the Council, as required by the Treaty , with a view to a transition to any modified structure required, as soon as possible. To this end, the Framework Programme will be adapted or supplemented in codecision pursuant to Article 166(2) of the Treaty. The progress report referred to in Article 7(2), preceding the interim evaluation, will give initial findings on the functioning of the ERC. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 35 Annex I, Chapter IV "Capacities", Subtitle "Research potential", Subtitle "Activities", paragraph 1, indent 1 - Trans-national two-way secondments of research staff between selected organisations in the convergence regions, and one or more partner organisations; support for selected centres of existing or emerging excellence for the recruitment of incoming experienced researchers from other countries. - Trans-national two-way secondments of research staff between selected organisations in the convergence regions, and one or more partner organisations; support for selected centres of existing or emerging excellence for the recruitment of incoming experienced researchers, including managers, from other countries. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 36 Annex I, Chapter IV "Capacities", Subtitle "Science in society", Subtitle "Activities", paragraph 1, indent 5 - Creation of an open environment which triggers curiosity for science in young people, by reinforcing science education at all levels, including in schools, and promoting interest and full participation in science among young people from all backgrounds. - Creation of an open environment which triggers curiosity for science in children and young people, by reinforcing science education at all levels, including in schools, and promoting interest and full participation in science among young people from all backgrounds. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 37 Annex I, Chapter IV "Capacities", Subtitle "Non-nuclear actions of the Joint Research Centre (JRC)", Subtitle "Rationale", paragraph 1 The JRC's independence of special interests, whether private or national, combined with its technical expertise enable it to facilitate communication and consensus building between stakeholders (industry associations, environmental action groups, Member States' competent authorities, other research centres etc.) and policy makers, especially at the Community level. Through scientific and technological support the JRC helps to make the Community policy process more effective, transparent and based on sound science. Where and when appropriate, research conducted by the JRC should be coordinated with the research undertaken under the "Themes" of the "Cooperation" Specific Programme, in order to avoid overlap and duplication. The JRC's independence