that Parliament, the Council and the Commission, when legislating in the financial services area, bear in mind the need to draft legislation in a comprehensive and comprehensible way which grants the individual consumer clearly defined rights which can be relied upon before national courts. This would improve consumer protection whilst at the same time creating strong incentives for Member States to transpose and apply such EC legislation correctly and on time. In turn, this will make more readily achievable a genuine internal market in financial services based on the country of origin principle and the home/host regulator method of supervision. C. RECOMMENDATIONS, PART V - ROLE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION 28. More attention to the quality of legislation and its evaluation over time a) The committee strongly recommends that the Commission go beyond the current formal interpretation of transposition and devote more attention to the quality of legislation at both EU and Member State level and its evolution over time. b) The committee also considers that it is vital that all the Community institutions involved in the law-making process take into account, from the drafting stage, the potential difficulties linked to the application and monitoring of Community law and that they make the utmost effort to assess in advance the difficulties which might arise once the act is adopted. The Lamfalussy process should provide the necessary level of scrutiny, assessment and cooperation so as to achieve such consistency in the area of financial services. c) The committee calls on the Commission to demonstrate its increased focus on implementation and enforcement of Community legislation and to ensure that any directive adopted is then implemented consistently across the European Union, in line with its " Strategic Review of Better Regulation in the EU " Commission Communication entitled 'A strategic review of Better Regulation in the European Union' ( COM(2006)0689 ). . The Lamfalussy process should be a means for ensuring this. In addition, all directives should include a legally binding time limit for their transposition, which should be as short as possible and, as a general rule, not exceed two years. 29. The committee also calls on the Commission to adopt a more proactive attitude towards implementation. It should retain an active role throughout and beyond the legislative process and put in place effective tools to ensure that the legislation is producing the required effects. The Commission should require that Member States report back on the status of implementation, so that the burden is shared equally between the Member States and the Commission, and that such an audit should be communicated to Parliament. The Lamfalussy process should usefully help through, in particular, the involvement of regulators and practitioners in the implementation process. 30. The committee considers that the sharing of best practice between the Member States, for example in the context of package meetings and transposition workshops organised by the Commission, is to be welcomed. In this regard, the committee calls on the Commission to consider means of involving Parliament in such processes, in particular the rapporteur who has had the benefit of following