do whatever it liked, because it was operating in a regulation-free zone." Referring to Equitable Life's communication culture, which should have allowed an attentive Regulator to eventually spot its potential financial weaknesses, a memorandum supplied to the House of Commons Treasury Committee in January 2001 see WE58 for more details. highlighted how " Equitable historically did not shy away from revealing its relatively thin solvency cover but, instead, promoted it as the desirable outcome of what it viewed as its virtuous approach to returning to policyholders as high as possible a proportion of the returns earned on their premiums. Given the wide reporting of this in the media, we think it likely that many persons who became policyholders during the past two decades ... would have been aware of EL's philosophy on not accruing and maintaining substantial excess solvency. The point about EL's relatively thin solvency cover is that it always was going to be more exposed than most other life offices to financial adversity, whether in the form of bad news on the asset side in the event of poor investment market conditions, or on the liability side in the event of unplanned liability inflation brought on by issues such as regulatory intervention". The former Equitable Life sales representative Mr. LLOYD (H5) felt that even the Equitable's sales force were all " let down by the board of Equitable Life ... It had the duty to tell the policyholders and the sales staff about the risks associated with adding further sums to the existing with-profits fund, and those risks should have been known by 1998, and possibly sooner ... I also feel we were failed by the regulators; no-one in the company outside the board had access to all of the information available, but the regulators most certainly should have had this." Replying to these allegations, the FSA representative Mr. STRACHAN Director of the Major Retail Groups Division at the FSA. (H4) considered the complaints "reflect a misunderstanding of what the regulators could or should have achieved in a case such as Equitable Life." He equally recalled that FSA's " risk based supervision accepts that a regulatory system neither can nor should aim at avoiding all failures ... We are not seeking to operate a regime in which firm failures do not occur, since we recognise that such a regime is neither desirable nor possible to achieve in a free market economy. This key principle characterises both the UK 's current and former approach to insurance regulation." This position was echoed by the UK Treasury representative Mr. MAXWELL Director for Financial Services Policy at HMT. (H4) who stated that " regulation was not static. There was evolution at both the legislative and regulatory policy level as the market evolved, but the regime did not, and still does not, seek to prevent all failures of or problems with regulated firms ... When it became clear in 1998 that Equitable Life had made no explicit provision for annuity guarantees when setting its reserves, the Treasury reacted swiftly and firmly." A similar note had