had submitted a proposal for a directive on the safety of third-country aircraft using Community airports as long ago as 1997. The European Parliament adopted its resolution at second-reading ( A4-0295/1998 ) on 15 September 1998. But because the Council was unable, as a consequence of a dispute over the status of Gibraltar, to take a decision within the stipulated time, the Commission was obliged to withdraw its proposal. When a solution had been found to the disagreement over Gibraltar, the Commission resubmitted its proposal. The views already expressed by Parliament and the Council have been taken into account in the proposal. European Parliament First reading The European Parliament supported the Commission proposal as a whole, and at first reading in September 2002 adopted nineteen amendments. These were intended both to clarify and firm up the text, and to add certain new points, in particular: ∙ Extending the scope of the directive in order to guarantee that the same safety level will be guaranteed for aircraft from within the Union; ∙ Clarifying the part played by the European Civil Aviation Agency in implementing and enforcing the directive; ∙ Committing Member States to including complaints from those living in the vicinity of airports as part of information-gathering; ∙ Guarantees of effective dissemination of information to the public on the safety situation and safety risks; ∙ Appeal to the Commission to assist third countries with enabling their safety provisions and staff qualifications to comply with Community standards. The Commission adopted the letter or spirit of most of Parliament's proposed changes in an amended proposal ( COM(2002) 664 ). The Council's common position The Council, in its common position, made a few substantive and a good many drafting amendments to the Commission proposal. A number of those amendments serve the same purpose as amendments tabled by Parliament. A considerable number of EP amendments were, however, not adopted or adopted with major changes. In addition, a number of the changes proposed by the Council to the Commission version depart, in your rapporteur's view, from the original proposal. Your rapporteur considers it of the greatest importance to safety and fair competition for this provision to enter into force promptly, not least in view of the years of delay that have already occurred. She is therefore confining herself at second reading to tabling amendments on only four items in order to reach agreement between the institutions quickly. Those amendments are mainly intended to reverse the weakening of the text by the Council on a number of points that are crucial to Parliament, viz: Providing information to the public (Amendment 2) The Common Position replaces the half-yearly requirement on Member States to provide information to the public with an annual and less specific requirement on the Commission to do so, without taking the relevant amendments by the European Parliament into account. In itself, your rapporteur considers replacing a national by a Community requirement to provide information as acceptable. Reporting by the Commission can even lead to improved comparability and thus to a better overview of data. It is, however,