Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (2 August 2006) Security research is an integral part of the Commission’s seventh framework programme for research and technology development (FP7) and, as such, subject to full transparency and co-decision with the Parliament. The evolution of security research at the European level and the transparent manner in which this has been undertaken is described hereafter. Triggered by the question as to whether the EU needed common security research, a Group of Personalities (GoP) was set up in 2004. It included 27 members from a broad cross section of communities, including four members of the Parliament, and addressed research requirements to meet the EU’s ‘foreign, security and defence policy objectives’. From this standpoint the inclusion of industrialists, including those with defence activities, was clearly necessary. From their non-binding vision document Research for a secure Europe (http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/security/documents_en.htm). the Commission published a communication entitled ‘security research : the next steps’ COM(2004)590 final. which focussed purely on civil security research. The communication received widespread support including from the Parliament (resolution of 23 June 2005 P6 TA(2005)0256. ). One of the recommendations of the GoP report was the formation of a European Security Research Advisory Board (ESRAB) to help draw the strategic lines for European security research and to advise on the principles and mechanism for its implementation within FP7. ESRAB was formed in April 2005 and brought together demand articulators and research and technology suppliers in a fifty person strong Board of high level specialists and strategists with expertise in the field of security research including: public authorities, industry, research institutes and specialist think tanks. In addition; five members of the Parliament actively participate in the workings of the Board. With respect to FP7, the Commission presented in April 2005 its proposal for FP7 COM(2005)119 final. in which security research, although combined in a single theme with space research, was clearly identified and described. Both this communication and the subsequent publication of the specific programme text COM(2005)440 final. made clear the focus on civil security research and described the broad mission scope including protection against terrorism and organised crime but also border security, crisis management and critical infrastructure protection. Technology development will be supported with political, social and human sciences research such as citizens and security, understanding organisational structures and cultures of public users, foresight scenarios and security as an evolving concept, security economics and ethics and justice. Despite the GoP recommendation for an annual budget of EUR 1 billion for security research, the Commission proposal foresaw EUR 570 million per annum for both security and space. The European security research programme (ESRP) will be an integral part of the ninth theme of the cooperation part of FP7. This means that the budget of ESRP will come entirely from the ninth theme of FP7. The Joint Research Centre (JRC) provides customer-driven scientific and technical support for EU policy making, ensuring support to the implementation and monitoring of existing policies and responding to new policy demands. In the area of internal security, the JRC will support EU