internal control mechanisms. Again, this provision was not correctly followed, argues Mr. LAKE in H1. His argument is as follows: an essential part of the UK national insurance framework is the qualified Appointed Actuary whom insurers appoint to advise on reserving, bonuses, expectations etc. and who should act partly as a guardian of policy-holders' interests. Mr. LAKE claims that the fact that in 1992 " Appointed Actuary Roy Ranson became CEO of ELAS without relinquishing the role of Appointed Actuary was clearly prejudicial to the interests of policy-holders but that UK legislation did not provide for the removal of Mr Ranson " (H1). It follows, according to Mr. LAKE, that faulty implementation rendered the UK authorities powerless. The UK GAD explicitly expressed its disapproval of Mr Ranson's dual role but did nothing. Mr. HOLMES (WE 84) also goes into detail on the issue of lack of sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms, namely the Appointed Actuary issue problem, quoting at length Penrose (WE 16) and repeating the allegations contained therein. However, Clive MAXWELL from HMT, under questioning during H4, rejects this claim, arguing that " the Third Life Directive does not refer to an individual called an Appointed Actuary. The question of whether an Appointed Actuary could take on that particular role is therefore not a matter for that Third Life Directive. It was a common arrangement with a number of other life insurance companies that the Appointed Actuary played that sort of role within the UK system." 14. Penrose detects general failings as regard prudential supervision of ELAS The Penrose report (WE 16) detects general failings as regard prudential supervision of ELAS: "Regulation, and GAD's advice, were focused exclusively on the solvency margin over contractual liabilities and took no account of accrued terminal or final bonus, notwithstanding that at the date of the 1989 report exposure to falling markets was real and was known to GAD and the regulators."(Ch.16-16) . "The Society... was too venerable to be of real concern, and lack of information provided grounds for inaction ... Regulators had been given an insight into the Society's practice that might reasonably have alerted them to a need for monitoring of current and future practice. No special steps were taken to put in place a suitable system." (Ch.16-21) Supporting these ideas, WE Conf 3 claims UK regulators did not deal with ELAS' problems when serious difficulties within the organisation were known before 1997 and possibly even as early as 1991. They did not realise that there were insufficient funds to cover policyholders with GARs. 15. PRE protected by UK law Mr. LAKE in H1 claims that " in UK law the 'reasonable expectations of the policyholders or potential policyholders' (PRE) have the protection of the competent authorities ". Mr HOLMES's (WE 84) evidence supports this thesis: "The protection of PRE under UK law was of great importance because of the shift in the 1980's and 1990's in the balance of benefits provided by ELAS under its policies away from guaranteed benefits to un-guaranteed terminal (later final) bonus.