the Community has to ensure full and timely implementation of the Convention including its Appendices, also the Annexes to the Directive require periodic adaptation. To simplify the amendments of the Appendices, the Council of Europe has opened for signature and ratification a ”Protocol of Amendment” to the Convention. Consequently, also Directive 86/609/EEC should provide for a simplified procedure as regards the adaptation of its Annexes to technical progress. The Commission proposes that this simplified procedure would be a Regulatory Committee Procedure and claims that, without this procedure, the Community would risk to run into a situation whereby its implementing legislation (namely the Annexes to the Directive) would not be in line with the Appendices to the Convention. The Community would then be in breach of its international obligations in this area. The existing Committees do not cover the area of the protection of animals used in experiments. Therefore it would be necessary to establish a Committee that has the appropriate competence. The Commission further acknowledges that, at a second stage, a full revision of the Directive is needed since it dates back 15 years and the scope of the Council of Europe Convention goes beyond that of the Directive. The Commission states that it would also be an opportunity to fulfil its commitments to improve the controls and welfare of certain species such as non-human primates. 2. Financial and legislative remarks 2.1. Budgetary impact The proposal has virtually no budgetary impact. It simply provides for the organisation of one (technical) committee meeting a year to adapt the Annexes to the latest scientific and technical progress, covered by budget line A-7031 (Expenditure on meetings of committees) of the Commission budget. The annual cost of this additional committee meeting is estimated at € 0.027 million. Part B of the budget (operational expenditure) will not be affected at all. 2.2. Commitology With regard to commitology your draftsman follows the traditional approach of the Committee on Budgets. She therefore tables two amendments which aim at replacing the proposed Regulatory Committee Procedure by the Advisory Committee Procedure. 2.3. Future full revision of Directive 86/609/EEC Your rapporteur would like to seize this opportunity to state that the future full revision of the Directive should indeed be used to improve the controls and welfare of certain species such as non-human primates. She believes that the external costs of rehousing and care taking of animals that have been used for experiments must be incorporated in research expenditure and be eligible for support from the European budget. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C 25 E, 29.01.2002, p. 536. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 5 (5) Since the measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive are measures of general scope within the meaning of Article 2 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L