Situation of Roma in Europe: MEPs quiz the Commission Justice and home affairs Committees Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs Employment and Social Affairs 2010-09-30 - 12:09 A large number of MEPs gave their backing on Wednesday to the European Commission, which has announced that it may launch a procedure against France for failure to apply EU law on the free movement of persons. MEPs also sought to shed light on the situation in other Member States and on whether Paris has discriminated against the Roma. MEPs were speaking at an extraordinary joint meeting of the EP Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs being held shortly after the Commission envisaged taking measures vis-à-vis France for failure to transpose EU law on freedom of movement. Commissioners Viviane Reding, Cecilia Malmström and László Andor took part in the debate. The European Parliament was the first institution, in early September, to adopt a resolution calling on the Commission to look into possible infringements of EU law following the events of this summer. "Zero tolerance" on transposition of EU law for all Member States Livia Járóka (EPP, HU), Parliament's rapporteur on the inclusion of the Roma, welcomed the Commission's decision, saying "I hope this will put an end to the debate and send a clear message to all Member States to take action (…) it is not just a French problem but a problem of the right to housing for a whole community", she added. Véronique Mathieu (EPP, FR) quizzed the Commissioner about the Commission's failure to react to cases of inadequate transposition of EU legislation on freedom of movement noted in the past in several Member States, even though the directive in question had been in force since 2006. Mrs Reding answered "We now have the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which gives it another dimension and we must apply zero tolerance to any failure to transpose the directive". "The Commission mentioned other cases" than France, pointed out Timothy Kirkhope (ECR, UK). "Could we have a list?" he asked. The Commissioner said that her department was looking into "all cases of non-transposition of the directive" in other Member States but that would require "a case-by-case treatment and a solid legal basis before hauling [them] before the courts". What about EU anti-discrimination law? "I find the Commission's announcement ridiculous", said Sonia Alfano (ALDE, IT). It was displaying "disastrous weakness", she argued, and should speed up the infringement procedure against France. She added that "the Italian government has been doing for years what is being criticised here". "Let's speak about France, where there has been a circular explicitly targeting the Roma. What are you doing about European anti-discrimination law?" asked Claude Moraes (S&D, UK). His concern was shared by Hélène Flautre (Greens/EFA, FR) and Rui Tavares (GUE/NGL, PT). Marie-Christine Vergiat (GUE/NGL, FR) believed the deportations were continuing on the basis of administrative documents with priorities that were "completely mixed up", which themselves could constitute a violation of European law. "The case has not been filed away", said Mrs