from the Commission and the Council. The debate focussed on whether current EU legislation and data-sharing between the Member States should be fully assessed as to its effectiveness. MEPs also questioned whether the Council should appoint a new EU anti-terrorism co-ordinator following Mr de Vries decision to step down in February 2007. The House will vote on a resolution on the issue during its plenary session in October. EU Member States must go on co-operating in their implementation of counter-terrorism measures, so as to ensure they respect fundamental rights and freedoms, stressed Mr Manuel Lobo Antunes Minister for European Affairs, speaking for the Council. Terrorism is a scourge that must be fought at both national and international levels - it is a global threat that needs a global answer, he continued. Efforts to improve information exchange and co-ordination with third countries are under way in international fora, led by the United States, and also closer to home, e.g. through dedicated Euro-Mediterranean meetings and work on the Mediterranean code of conduct against terrorism. Progress in implementing the EU's counter-terrorism strategy, which relies on prevention, protection, prosecution and reaction, is reviewed in the Council every six months. For example, measures to combat radicalisation, recruitment, and terrorist fund-raising are regularly reviewed for effectiveness. Co-ordination among Member States has produced concrete results, such as the recommendation on explosives. However, noted Mr Lobo Antunes, although Europol has "effective" files fed by Member States, police and judicial co-operation is hampered by the requirement of unanimity in the Council, and it is to be hoped that the reform treaty will help to overcome this. Mr Lobo Antunes stressed that the EU Joint Situation Centre (SITCEN), provides threat assessments useful to the Council, but has no co-ordinating role. The Council, and the High Representative for Common and Foreign Security Policy, are considering whether to appoint a new counter-terrorism co-ordinator. Franco Frattini, Vice-President of the Commission with responsibility for Justice, Freedom and Security, told the House that the Commission "continues to be fully committed to the implementation of the EU counter-terrorism strategy" and to finding the right balance between "the right to life" and "the right to privacy and procedural rights". All sources indicated that "the threat of new terrorist attacks continues to be high", he said and pointed to the thwarting this week of planned terrorist attacks in Denmark and Germany. At least this proved the effectiveness of prevention measures: he described the stopping of the attacks as "fantastic result", to applause from the House. Mr Frattini then outlined a package of measures in preparation by the Commission. First, an EU Action Plan on the security of explosives to be adopted in November, which would set up an EU explosives database and early warning system, e.g. for use if explosives are stolen. Second, draft legislation to make terrorist misuse of the internet punishable EU-wide. Third, legislation for an EU system of passenger name records, since "the Union is at least as much a potential target of a terrorist attack as the United States and the use of PNR is an