Answer given by Mr Andor on behalf of the Commission (9 September 2010) The Commission recalls that one of the five headline targets of the Europe 2020 strategy seeks to increase the employment rate of women and men aged 20 to 64 from the current 69 % to at least 75 % by 2020. It reflects one of the strategic challenges that the European Union will face over the next decade and beyond: the ageing of the population, which involves the growing percentage of people of retirement age relative to the working-age population. Tackling that challenge and ensuring that the EU’s social welfare systems do not come under too much pressure is one of Europe 2020’s fundamental aims. Achieving that aim will involve making sure that more people participate in working life and contribute to financing the EU’s social welfare systems to ensure their sustainability in the long run. The Commission believes that, despite the current economic situation, an employment rate of 75 % can realistically be achieved by 2020 if the Member States implement the necessary reforms. Historical evidence shows that Member States made substantial progress in raising employment rates, especially of women and older workers, between 2000 and 2008, following the implementation of structural reforms on the labour market. The Integrated Guidelines endorsed by the European Council, and in particular the Employment Guidelines, set out a number of policy priorities for implementing Europe 2020. Guideline 7 calls for increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, in particular through the promotion of active-ageing policies and suitable policies to balance work and family or private life. Guideline 8 concerns the development of a skilled workforce meeting the labour market’s needs and the promotion of lifelong learning. It calls for special efforts to support those with low or obsolete skills and to increase the employability of older workers. Guideline 10 calls for the promotion of social inclusion and support for groups at risk, including the elderly. The Commission proposed seven flagship initiatives to help implement the Europe 2020 strategy. Among these, ‘An agenda for new skills and jobs’ involves applying the lifelong learning principles and making vocational education and training more attractive while the ‘European platform against poverty’ includes measures to ensure social and territorial cohesion by helping the poor and socially excluded and enabling them to play an active part in society. The Commission will present the two Communications on an ‘Agenda for new skills and jobs’ and a ‘European platform against poverty’ in the 4th quarter of 2010.