For in-depth detail, see Part III on Regulatory Action and Part IV on Redress issues. Article 31 - Information for policyholders (Article 36 of CD) and Annex II (Annex III of CD) Summary of objectives This article states that the information listed in Annex II of the Directive must be communicated to the policyholder, with the possibility to require companies to give additional information if it is necessary for a proper understanding by the policyholder of the essential elements of the commitment. Text of the article A rticle 31 1. Before the assurance contract is concluded, at least the information listed in point A of Annex II shall be communicated to the policy-holder. 2. The policy-holder shall be kept informed throughout the term of the contract of any change concerning the information listed in point B of Annex II. 3. The Member State of the commitment may require assurance undertakings to furnish information in addition to that listed in Annex II only if it is necessary for a proper understanding by the policy-holder of the essential elements of the commitment. 4. The detailed rules for implementing this Article and Annex II shall be laid down by the Member State of the commitment. ANNEX II INFORMATION FOR POLICY-HOLDERS. The following information, which is to be communicated to the policy-holder before the contract is concluded (A) or during the term of the contract (B), must be provided in a clear and accurate manner, in writing, in an official language of the Member State of the commitment. However, such information may be in another language if the policy-holder so requests and the law of the Member State so permits or the policy-holder is free to choose the law applicable. A. Before concluding the contract Information about the assurance undertaking Information about the commitment (a) 1. The name of the undertaking and its legal form (a) 2. The name of the Member State in which the head office and, where appropriate, the agency or branch concluding the contract is situated (a) 3. The address of the head office and, where appropriate, of the agency or branch concluding the contract (a) 4. Definition of each benefit and each option (a) 5. Term of the contract (a) 6. Means of terminating the contract (a) 7. Means of payment of premiums and duration of payments (a) 8. Means of calculation and distribution of bonuses (a) 9. Indication of surrender and paid-up values and the extent to which they are guaranteed (a) 10. Information on the premiums for each benefit, both main benefits and supplementary benefits, where appropriate (a) 11. For unit-linked policies, definition of the units to which the benefits are linked (a) 12. Indication of the nature of the underlying assets for unit-linked policies (a) 13. Arrangements for application of the cooling-off period (a) 14. General information on the tax arrangements applicable to the type of policy (a) 15. The arrangements for handling complaints concerning contracts by policy-holders, lives assured or beneficiaries under contracts including, where appropriate, the existence of a complaints body, without prejudice to the right