Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (11 May 2011) The Commission is well aware of the difficult situation in Lampedusa and generally in the Southern Mediterranean and is in constant contact with the relevant Italian and Maltese authorities to monitor the situation. According to UNHCR and the Italian authorities, the majority of migrants who initially arrived in Italy from Tunisia were seeking employment and better economic conditions, rather than international protection. There are, however, also arrivals of Sub-Saharan migrants, some of whom could be in need of international protection. The Commission has mobilised its instruments to Member States under pressure. This response includes operational measures and financial assistance. The Frontex joint operation HERMES 2011 was launched on 20 February at the request of Italy, with assets and experts from a number of Member States. The Commission is closely monitoring developments and preparing for different scenarios. If required, Frontex operations could be strengthened to help deal with possible new inflows. The Commission has also launched the necessary procedures to request a substantial reinforcement of the Frontex budget for 2011 to allow it to provide for an enhanced operational response. The Commission is also ready to mobilise additional financial assistance from funds such as the External Borders Fund and European Refugee Fund which amount to EUR 25 million in total. A large number of Member States are ready to provide specialised personnel and technical assets. On the issue of smuggling, it must be noted that Europol deployed a team which was charged to elaborate a strategic assessment of the extent to which terrorists and organised criminal groups could take advantage of the volatile political situation in the region. The Commission would also like to refer the Honourable Member to the joint communication of the Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy on ‘A Partnership for Democracy and Shared Prosperity with the Southern Mediterranean’ Joint communication of the European Commission and the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to the European Council, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on ‘A Partnership for Democracy and Shared Prosperity with the Southern Mediterranean’, COM(2011)200 final. adopted on 8 March 2011, as well as to the Declaration adopted by the extraordinary European Council of 11 March 2011 http://www.consilium.europa.eu/uedocs/cms_data/docs/pressdata/en/ec/119780.pdf , which, in particular, underlines that ‘[T]he Member States most directly concerned by migratory movements require our concrete solidarity. The EU and the Member States stand ready to provide the necessary support as the situation evolves’. In this regard, additional solidarity measures can take several forms and will always depend on the exact scope and nature of the inflows of migrants. The Commissioner for Home Affairs visited, in March, Egypt and Tunisia in order to assess the refugee situation, explore the possibility of enhancing people-to-people contacts and of working together with the countries of the southern neighbourhood region to better manage migration and mobility. The EU will continue its support to these countries in