WRITTEN QUESTION E-2622/07 by Georgios Karatzaferis (IND/DEM) to the Commission (23 May 2007) Subject: Turkish thugs intimidating Greek citizens in Greek Thrace 37 young Pomaks (Greeks — and therefore European — citizens) have dared to give vent to their indignation at years of attempts to ‘Turkicise’ them (with the collusion of the Greek State) have formed an association with offices in the centre of Xanthi. No official representative of the Greek State has expressed any support for their brave action, not even in the form of a simple phone call in solidarity. The reaction of Kemalist agents in the area was also expected, although, admittedly it went beyond all bounds. In addition to the continuous and undisguised death threats against the courageous Greek Pomaks and their families, the newspaper Milliyet published all their names in one of its editions, calling them traitors to the faith and Turkishness, as ‘they were collaborating with orthodox Greeks, that is our worst enemies’(!). Moreover, the names of all the signed members of the association were posted in all the Mosques in the prefecture of Xanthi, thus stigmatising them in the local community and essentially blacklisting them as ‘an example to others’! The outcome to date is that seven Pomaks who were unable to withstand such inhuman pressure have asked that they be withdrawn from the association. They have also asked for certification of their withdrawal from the association, which they have since published in the newspaper concerned. As for the others, the threats and terror continue, their parents live a life of isolation in their villages and they fear for their children each time they leave their home. Obviously, these people are easy prey at any moment in their isolated mountain villages. Is it possible that all this is taking place in a Member State of the EU, Greece, which does not protect its citizens from the activities of foreign agents and State-sponsored thugs? Is the above fascist attempt to intimidate Greek citizens by the agencies of a foreign power on the territory of an EU Member State not an example of the degeneration of democracy and citizens' rights? How can the Union protect these people?