ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation" (Article 13 of the EC Treaty); 7. Notes, finally, that the new Treaty recognises citizens' right of access to Community documents and to the protection of personal data (Articles 255 and 286 of the EC Treaty); 8. Reaffirms, therefore, that all these rights, which correspond to ideas expressed in national Constitutions as well as in the ECHR, form the very foundation of the European Union and should be included in a European Charter of Fundamental Rights; 9. Considers it essential that such fundamental rights be uniformly applied and readily understood in the European Union, particularly in the light of the future Charter of Fundamental Rights which is being drafted; 10. Approves the Council's presentation of the first European Union annual report on human rights which constitutes a first step, but regrets the disappointing nature of the report's content which is merely a statement of fact; 11. Sincerely hopes that the next Council report will contain a country-by-country detailed analysis of developments in the human rights situation in the EU and proposes that monitoring systems and strategies be introduced in the future to improve respect for such rights pursuant to Articles 6 and 7 of the EU Treaty; 12. Approves also the holding of the first Human Rights Forum on 30 November and 1 December 1999 and calls for the Council, Commission and Parliament to be closely involved in the next forum in 2000, with due recognition for the leading role which Parliament should play in this field; 13. Welcomes the fact that the protection of human rights in the Council of Europe has been strengthened in institutional terms with the establishment on 1 November 1998 of a single and permanent human rights court to which any plaintiff may have direct access; 14. Hopes, however, that the new Court of Human Rights, which has experienced a significant increase in the number of applications in 1998 and 1999 and is currently faced with the task of processing more than 6000 applications, will succeed in resolving this problem and speeding up its proceedings; 15. Welcomes the establishment of a Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, with non-judicial responsibility for promoting human rights education and awareness in the framework of the ECHR, and the appointment to this post of Mr Alvaro Gil-Robles; 16. Deplores the fact that yet again eleven of the fifteen Member States of the European Union are listed in Amnesty International's Yearbook for 1999 on account of both serious and less serious human rights abuses; II. Human rights developments in the European Union The exercise of civil and political rights 17. Points out that the first corollary of respect for human rights is the guarantee that they can be exercised; accordingly, calls on the Member States to implement the measures needed to guarantee that every individual can exercise his or her civil and political rights and, in particular, to take effective steps to combat all forms of pressure or intimidation employed by organised bands or groups with a view to preventing the