Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (16 December 2004) — The Commission is well aware of the increasing number of requests being put to the United Nations (UN) Secretary General (SG) for complex peacekeeping operations and is equally conscious of the challenge it poses to the UN. In this regard, the UN system mainly depends on its Member States which remain responsible for the allocation of resources needed to fulfil the tasks decided upon in the UN Security Council. As the European Union is not a contributor to UN peacekeeping budgets, the Commission was not contacted by the United Nations. The Commission is nevertheless aware of recent calls by UN SG Annan for Member States to increase their participation in UN Peacekeeping Operations, including most recently on the occasion of the Forum on Europe, held in Dublin, Ireland, on 14 October 2004. — Given the numerous multidimensional peacekeeping operations that the UN deploys, post-crisis management, reconstruction, democratization and governance are important elements in the cooperation with the different UN missions. The Commission is not aware that the current number of UN Peace Keeping operations has put the conduct of missions at risk. However, it should be noted that constraints imposed on the UN might lead to reduced regional or thematic coverage in the future. — As regards crisis management operations, it should be stressed that regional organisations like the African Union (AU) are assuming greater responsibilities for regional peace and security matters. This will modify the overall framework for UN peace keeping missions and implies equally a greater responsibility of the European Union which is supporting this development. — The recently established UN peacekeeping operations in Liberia, the Ivory Coast and Burundi in 2003 and 2004 in fact took over from short term African peacekeeping operations, under the aegis of the African Union (Burundi) and the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas) (Liberia, Ivory Coast) and which were partly financed under the European Development Fund (EDF). Clearly, the Commission was in close touch with the UN when providing short term, emergency support to African peacekeeping operations. While missions in Liberia, Burundi and Sierra Leone seem sufficiently equipped to fulfil their mission mandates, the set-up of the mission in Haiti has been a source of concern as the initial strength fell far behind that planned for the mission. — The EU, both Commission and Council Secretariat, have an ongoing dialogue with the UN, in particular with the Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO), in regard to crisis management ever since EU Operation Artemis in June 2003 was deployed in Ituri for a couple of months until such time as the UN was able to dispatch an adequate peacekeeping force. Quasi simultaneously, at the request of the AU in July 2003, the Commission took the initiative of establishing the African Peace Facility, which entered into force in May 2004. The African Peace Facility (€ 250 million- EDF funded) is specifically designed to support African Peace Keeping deployment and related capacity building at the initiative of the AU and/or African sub-regional