such in the General Budget of the European Union. (13) This Decision establishes an overall financial amount covering the entire period needed for the development and the deployment of the system, and representing the budgetary authority's prime reference within the meaning of Point 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure OJ C 172, 18.6.1999, p. 1. . (14) Since the measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision are management measures within the meaning of in Article 2 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. , they should be adopted by use of the management procedure provided for in Article 4 of that Decision, HAVE ADOPTED THIS DECISION: Article 1 1. A computerised system for the movement and surveillance of excisable products of the kind referred to in Article 3(1) of Directive 92/12/EEC, hereinafter referred to as "the computerised system", is hereby established. 2. The computerised system shall: a) permit the electronic transmission of the accompanying administrative document provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 2719/92 , and the improvement of checks; b) combat fraud by enabling the Member States to monitor the flow of excisable products in real time and carry out the requisite checks where necessary; c) simplify the intra-Community movement of products under excise-duty suspension arrangements, in particular by facilitating and speeding up the discharge of such movements. Article 2 The Member States , in collaboration with the Commission, shall establish the computerised system within five years of the entry into force of this Decision. Work on developing the computerised system shall begin not later than nine months after the entry into force of this Decision. The Commission and the Member States shall make available the human, budgetary and technical resources needed to establish and run the computerised system. Article 3 The computerised system shall be made up of Community and non-Community components. The Community components of the system shall be the common specifications, the technical products, the services of the CCN/CSI (Common Communications Network/Common Systems Interface) network, and the coordination services used by all the Member States, to the exclusion of any variant or special feature of any such services designed to meet national requirements. The non-Community components of the system shall be the national specifications, the national databases forming part of the system, network connections between Community and non-Community components, any software or equipment which a Member State considers necessary to ensure full use of the system throughout its administration , as well as the standard application which each Member State must develop and make available to economic operators in its territory free of charge. The computerised system shall, if technically possible, be merged with the NCTS. Together they shall form a single integrated computer system for surveillance of the movements of excisable goods and of excisable/dutiable third-country goods. Article 4 1. The Commission shall coordinate the