Answer given by Ms Kroes on behalf of the Commission (28 May 2010) Accessibility to the information society and new technologies has been an important component of the European Disability Action Plans since 2003. The Commission has supported e-accessibility, notably through funding for research and deployment projects, legislation, standardisation, policy initiatives, awareness actions and dialogue with Member States and other stakeholders. The Commission adopted the communication COM/2008/804 final. ‘Towards an accessible information society’ on 1 December 2008, which stressed the importance of web accessibility and set in train a process of cooperation with stakeholders. This has led in particular to Council conclusions calling for the Commission to propose a recommendation on web accessibility http://www.consilium.europa.eu/uedocs/cms_data/docs/pressdata/en/trans/107014.pdf and studies on policies and the status of e-accessibility, with a special focus on web accessibility. Moreover, a dialogue with Member States in the framework of the ‘i2010 e-inclusion subgroup’ as well as with other stakeholders, including on standardisation matters, has been set out to explore options for future steps. The commitment to e-accessibility will continue under the European Digital Agenda, which will take into account the implementation of the United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and in particular the obligations under Article 9. The European Digital Agenda will also seek to promote broadband Internet for everyone and increasing the digital skills of all users, in line with the orientations indicated in ‘Europe 2020’. Moreover, the Commission is also expected soon to adopt a new European Disability strategy, which will cover e-accessibility, and will seek in particular to implement the UN Convention. In November 2009 the Council adopted a Decision for the conclusion by the European Union of the UN Convention. The Council decision contained a declaration of competences for the EU that includes the directives on Electronic Communication and Audio Visual Media Services. The Commission will seek that existing legislation is fully implemented in line with the UN Convention and will review options that will secure that public sector websites become accessible.