before voting begins, the vote shall be valid only if the majority of the component members of the committee have taken part in it. 3. Voting in committee shall be by show of hands, unless a quarter of the committee's members request a vote by roll call. In this case the vote shall be taken in accordance with Rule 160(2). 4. The chairman may take part in discussions and may vote, but without having a casting vote. 5. In the light of the amendments tabled, the committee may, instead of proceeding to a vote, request the rapporteur to submit a new draft taking account of as many of the amendments as possible. A new deadline shall then be set for amendments to this draft. Rule 186 Provisions concerning plenary sittings applicable in committee Rules 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 140, 141, 143(1), 146, 148, 150 to 153, 155, 157(1), 158, 159, 161, 162, 164 to 167, 170 and 171 shall apply mutatis mutandis to committee meetings. Rule 187 Question Time in committee Question Time may be held in committee if a committee so decides. Each committee shall decide its own rules for the conduct of Question Time. CHAPTER 3 INTERPARLIAMENTARY DELEGATIONS Rule 188 Setting up and duties of interparliamentary delegations 1. On a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, Parliament shall set up standing interparliamentary delegations and decide on their nature and the number of their members bearing in mind their duties. The members shall be elected during the first or second part-session following the re-election of Parliament for the duration of the parliamentary term. 2. Members of the delegations shall be elected after nominations have been submitted to the Conference of Presidents by the political groups and the Non-attached Members. The Conference of Presidents shall submit to Parliament proposals designed to ensure as far as possible fair representation of Member States and of political views. Rule 177(2), (3), (5) and (6) shall apply. 3. The bureaux of the delegations shall be constituted in accordance with the procedure laid down for the standing committees pursuant to Rule 182. 4. Parliament shall determine the general powers of the individual delegations. It may at any time decide to increase or restrict these powers. 5. The implementing provisions needed to enable the delegations to carry out their work shall be adopted by the Conference of Presidents on a proposal from the Conference of Delegation Chairmen. 6. The chairman of a delegation shall submit to the committee responsible for foreign affairs and security a report on the activities of the delegation. Rule 189 Cooperation with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 1. Parliament's bodies, particularly the committees, shall cooperate with their counterparts at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in fields of mutual interest, with the aim in particular of improving the efficiency of their work and avoiding duplication of effort. 2. The Conference of Presidents, in agreement with the competent authorities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, shall decide the arrangements for implementing these provisions. Rule 190 Joint