Q. whereas Asian big-cat populations remain under threat from poaching, habitat depletion and prey loss and whereas, despite repeated calls, there has been a disappointing lack of progress in many areas with regard to firm action to halt the decline of tigers and other big cats, R. whereas CITES Decision 14.69, adopted at CoP 14, called on Parties with intensive breeding operations to ensure that captive breeding of Asian big cats was commensurate only with conservation, and stated that tigers should not be bred for trade in their parts and derivatives, S. whereas the recent Kathmandu Recommendations highlighted the importance of increasing the involvement of international law enforcement bodies, such as Interpol, the World Customs Organisation (WCO), the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and CITES, in tackling wildlife crime and called for those bodies’ environmental crime units to be enhanced for that purpose, T. whereas CITES Decisions 14.35 and 14.36 were adopted by CoP 14 (held in The Hague in 2007), and whereas the anonymity and global reach of the Internet could drastically diminish the ability of CITES Parties to combat illegal trade in wildlife; whereas the rapid growth in e-commerce of specimens of CITES-listed species poses a serious threat to the survival of many species; whereas the global nature of the Internet makes it difficult for CITES Parties to enforce national and international law within their jurisdictions; and whereas e-commerce in wildlife and its products must always be regarded as potential international trade, 1. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to use the precautionary principle as the leading principle for all their decisions on working documents and listing proposals, also taking into account the user-pays principle, the ecosystem approach and traditional conservation principles; 2. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to ensure that any decisions aimed at enhancing coordination between CITES and other biodiversity-related conventions do not undermine the nature of CITES as a global conservation agreement or CITES’ strict conservation measures; 3. Strongly opposes the use of secret ballots and is disappointed that the CITES Standing Committee has not come forward with proposals to exclude the possibility of secret voting in CITES’ decision-making process; Bluefin tuna 4. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the listing of northern bluefin tuna ( Thunnus thynnus ) in CITES Appendix I, in line with the proposal of the Principality of Monaco; Sharks 5. Strongly welcomes the proposal tabled by Sweden on behalf of the Member States for the listing of the two shark species porbeagle ( Lamna nasus ) and spiny dogfish ( Squalus acanthias ) in CITES Appendix II; urges the Commission and the Member States to support this proposal; 6. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the listing of the five shark species scalloped hammerhead ( Sphyrna lewini ), great hammerhead ( Sphyrna mokarran ), smooth hammerhead ( Sphyrna zygaena ), sandbar shark ( Carcharhinus plumbeus ) and dusky shark ( Carcharhinus obscurus ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of the United States of America; 7.