Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (7 January 2005) 1. To date thirty nine countries have recognised the UNMIK travel documents, including all Schengen States. Nevertheless, most countries require a visa. Only Albania and the Former Yugoslavia Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) do not require a visa from Kosovans, while Albania accepts also a simple identity card. Most countries issue visas through their Consular Offices in Skopje. 2. All Kosovans have the right to ask for a Serbian passport, which is recognised all over the world, although some countries also require visas. However, for obvious political reasons, most Albanian-speaking Kosovans are reluctant to ask for Serbian passports. 3. The railway transport in the north towards the Serbian territory is functional but not completely operational in the sense that there is a passenger train circulating until the border point, Lesak, twice a day. The passengers wishing to continue their trip to Serbian territory should get off and take the Serbian railways train coming from Kraljevo to Lesak. The commercial transport is not functioning at all despite the agreement achieved between the railway companies. The agreement, however, has never been respected by Serbia. The other part of the railway link to the FYROM border and further is functioning for the transport of freight and goods and is intensively used by Kosovo Force (KFOR), private trading companies and Pristina airport. This railway line is however not functioning for the transport of passengers. The last point for passengers coming from Kosovo by rail in this direction is the Elez Hani border point. There is an initiative among the three railway companies (i.e. UNMIK, FYROM and Serbia Railway) to activate the complete railway line from Skopje to Belgrade via Pristina (Kosovo polje) but nothing has been achieved so far. 4 and 5. The Commission is aware of the extra difficulties for Kosovans because of the unresolved status of Kosovo. However, the Commission wishes to assure the Honourable Member that it is doing everything possible within the range of its competencies, notably the Stabilisation and Association Process Tracking Mechanism and as interlocutor and contributor of UNMIK, so that the Albanian-speaking Kosovans do not feel more cut off from Europe than their neighbours from the Western Balkans. Nevertheless, the question of travel documents is a broader issue for the entire region and it is in the hands of the Member States and the Council.