the Commission proposal and draft report at its meetings of 16 June 2003 and 9 September 2003. At the latter meeting it adopted the draft legislative resolution by 33 votes to 8, with 1 abstention. The following were present for the vote: Alexander de Roo, acting chairman; Mauro Nobilia and Guido Sacconi, vice-chairmen; Bernd Lange, rapporteur; and Hans Blokland, David Robert Bowe, John Bowis, Martin Callanan, Dorette Corbey, Raffaele Costa, Chris Davies, Karl-Heinz Florenz, Pernille Frahm, Cristina García-Orcoyen Tormo, Robert Goodwill, Françoise Grossetête, Cristina Gutiérrez Cortines, Jutta D. Haug (for Béatrice Patrie), Marie Anne Isler Béguin, Hedwig Keppelhoff-Wiechert (for Caroline F. Jackson), Christa Klaß, Eija-Riitta Anneli Korhola, Giorgio Lisi (for María del Pilar Ayuso González), Torben Lund, Minerva Melpomeni Malliori, Patricia McKenna, Erik Meijer (for Jonas Sjöstedt), Emilia Franziska Müller, Rosemarie Müller, Riitta Myller, Ria G.H.C. Oomen-Ruijten, Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, Giacomo Santini (for Marialiese Flemming), Karin Scheele, Ursula Schleicher (for Avril Doyle), Renate Sommer (for Jorge Moreira da Silva), María Sornosa Martínez, Catherine Stihler, Astrid Thors, Antonios Trakatellis, Kathleen Van Brempt and Phillip Whitehead. The opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism is attached; the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy decided on 20 February 2003 not to deliver an opinion. The report was tabled on 10 September 2003. DRAFT EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 97/68/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from internal combustion engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery ( COM(2002) 765 – C5‑0636/2002 – 2002/0304(COD)) (Codecision procedure: first reading) The European Parliament , – having regard to the Commission proposal to the European Parliament and the Council ( COM(2002) 765 OJ C not yet published . ), – having regard to Article 251(2) and Article 95 of the EC Treaty, pursuant to which the Commission submitted the proposal to Parliament ( C5‑0636/2002 ), – having regard to Rule 67 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism ( A5‑0296/2003 ), 1. Approves the Commission proposal as amended; 2. Asks for the matter to be referred to it again, should the Commission intend to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 3a (new) (3a) In view of the environmental need and the availability of new emission-reducing technologies for on-road vehicles, the aim should be made to align the standards for on-road vehicles and non-road mobile machinery. The legislature in the USA has also recognised this need and will shortly be publishing related proposals. Harmonisation at this point would seem rational in the context of the global market. Justification The US Environmental Protection Agency has proposed a new emission tier for the non-road sector corresponding to