the 10th anniversary of the European Year Against Racism, which has enabled considerable progress to be made towards the elimination of racial discrimination. Amendment 9 Recital 7 (7) European legislation has significantly raised the level of guaranteed equality and protection against inequalities and discrimination across the EU and acted as a catalyst for the development of a more coherent, rights-based approach to equality and non-discrimination. (7) European legislation has significantly raised the level of guaranteed equality and protection against inequalities and discrimination across the EU and acted as a catalyst for the development of a more coherent, rights-based approach to equality and non-discrimination. Despite this fact, people in the EU still encounter discrimination and unequal treatment in their daily lives. Justification It is important to draw attention to the fact that despite the progress achieved and existing legislation, much still needs to be done. Amendment 10 Recital 7 a (new) (7a) The European Year should lend fresh impetus to supporting Member States' efforts to implement Community equal treatment and non-discrimination legislation. Justification A number of Member States are lagging behind in the transportation of Community legislation on non-discrimination. The European Year should give them an incentive to make up lost time. Amendment 11 Recital 7 b (new) (7b) It is essential that actions in relation to age, disability, religion or belief, race and sexual orientation take full account of the gender differences. Justification Equality between men and women is one of the key areas of the fight against discrimination. Discrimination in this area may go hand-in-hand with other forms of discrimination. Amendment 12 Recital 7 c (new) (7c) The consultation process organised by the Commission through the Green Paper entitled 'Equality and non-discrimination in the enlarged European Union', which was adopted on 28 May 2004, shows that, in the opinion of most of the persons questioned, the Union should step up its efforts to combat discrimination on grounds of sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, disability, age or sexual orientation. Justification In the wake of the Green Paper, the Commission has decided to launch its framework strategy on non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all. The European Year of Equal Opportunities (2007) is a cornerstone of that framework strategy. Amendment 13 Recital 7 d (new) (7d) In its resolution on the situation of Roma in Europe, the European Parliament brings attention to the prevalence of anti-gypsyism and its discriminatory effect on the opportunities in terms of employment, education and social services for the European Union's most disadvantaged ethnic-minority group. Justification Comprised of 12 million European Union citizens, Roma are one of Europe's largest ethnic minorities, reside in the majority of Member States and Candidate Countries, and as such combating anti-gypsyism should be a central target of the European Year. Amendment 14 Recital 8 (8) Key to the successful impact of the Community non-discrimination legislative framework is the extent to which it enjoys broad popular support. The European Year should act as a catalyst in raising awareness and in building momentum. It should help to focus political attention and mobilise everyone concerned