concern; (ii) Monitoring data showing that long-range environmental transport of the active substance, with the potential for transfer to a receiving environment, may have occurred via air, water or migratory species; or (iii) Environmental fate properties and/or model results that demonstrate that the active substance has a potential for long-range environmental transport through air, water or migratory species, with the potential for transfer to a receiving environment in locations distant from the sources of its release. For an active substance that migrates significantly through the air, its DT50 in air should be greater than two days. 3.7.2. An active substance shall only be approved if it, and its transformation products or residues, are not considered to be ▐ persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic (PBT) substances . A substance that fulfils all three of the criteria of the sections below is a PBT substance. 3.7.2.1. Persistence An active substance fulfils the persistence criterion where: – the half-life in marine water is higher than 60 days, or – the half-life in fresh or estuarine water is higher than 40 days, or – the half-life in marine sediment is higher than 180 days, or – the half-life in fresh or estuarine water sediment is higher than 120 days, or – the half-life in soil is higher than 120 days. Assessment of persistency in the environment shall be based on available half-life data collected under appropriate conditions, which shall be described by the applicant. It also fulfils the persistence criterion where there is evidence that the substance is otherwise sufficiently persistent to be of concern. 3.7.2.2. Bioaccumulation An active substance fulfils the bioaccumulation criterion where the bioconcentration factor (BCF) is higher than 2000. Assessment of bioaccumulation shall be based on measured data on bioconcentration in aquatic species. Data from both freshwater and marine water species can be used. It also fulfils the bioaccumulation criterion when there is evidence of high bioaccumulation in other species, or monitoring data in biota indicate that the bioaccumulation potential of the substance is sufficient to be of concern . 3.7.2.3. Toxicity An active substance fulfils the toxicity criterion where: – the long-term no-observed effect concentration (NOEC) for marine or freshwater organisms is less than 0.01 mg/l, or – the substance is classified as carcinogenic (category 1,▐ 2 or 3 ), mutagenic (category 1,▐ 2 or 3 ), or toxic for reproduction (category 1, 2, or 3), or – there is other evidence of chronic toxicity, as identified by the classifications: T, R48 or Xn, R48 pursuant to Directive 67/548/EEC. 3.7.3. An active substance shall not be considered as complying with Article 4 where it, or its transformation products or residues, are very persistent, very bioaccumulating (vPvB). A substance that fulfils both of the criteria of the sections below is a vPvB substance. 3.7.3.1. Persistence An active substance fulfils the very persistent criterion (vP-) where there is evidence that: – the half-life in marine, fresh- or estuarine water is higher than 60 days, or – the half-life in marine, fresh- or estuarine water sediment is higher than 180 days, or – the half-life