main policy areas in which the money is spent. This sub-heading therefore covers a number of issues and programmes of key concern to the citizens. 61. The programmes in this sub-heading include a proposal for a Health and Consumer Policy Programme (appropriation of EUR 79,1 million) that would focus on access to health and consumer information for citizens and include "the creation of a network of high-level flu officials" . The proposal looks, at first glance, to cover a wide set of issues. The relevant committee will no doubt look at this proposal closely. 62. Culture 2007 (EUR 41,8 million appropriation) is a new programme that will seek to promote inter-cultural dialogue. Media 2007 (appropriation of EUR 96,3 million) seeks to preserve and enhance European cultural diversity. Youth in action (appropriation of EUR 116 million) aims at promoting active citizenship among young people. 63. This heading also includes an appropriation of EUR 15,4 million for a Rapid response and preparedness instrument that would come into force in 2007. The objective is to improve early warning mechanisms regarding natural hazards such as earthquakes, floods and forest fires as well as to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of civil protection interventions. The expert committees concerned might look at whether EUR 15,4 million is an amount of money that would enable significant added value to be achieved. 64. One should mention under this heading that the European Solidarity Fund (EUSF) is intended to provide assistance in the event of a major natural disaster within the EU. Up to EUR 1 billion would be available annually, but this is not included within the MFF ceiling. 65. Press and communications activities intended to improve the flow of information between the European institutions and the people of Europe have planned appropriations in the PDB of EUR 69,1 million. This potential spending would include efforts to improve debate about Europe through the "Plan D" approach. 66. Finally, page 10 of document II of the Commission's PDB appears to indicate that EUR 87 million has been allocated within Heading 3b to institution-building in the policy area of enlargement. The related activity statement should contain further information about intended spending in this regard. Heading 4 - The EU as a global partner General Aspects - The new heading 4 comprises, in addition to the heading 4 of previous years, the old heading 7 (pre-accession) as well as the old heading 6 (Emergency Aid reserve and the provisioning of the Guarantee Fund for external actions). - The PDB reflects the new legislative framework consisting of three policy-driven instruments: Neighbourhood (ENPI); Pre-accession (IPA); Development and Economic Cooperation (DCECI); and the three specific instruments which complement them (Stability, Humanitarian Aid and Macro-financial assistance). CFSP is kept separate. 67. In terms of nomenclature, the Commission has sometimes opted to maintain separate certain chapters and/ or lines constituting a "sub-policy", presumably for reasons of transparency. For example, chapter 19 04 (European Initiative for democracy and human rights) is maintained as a separate entity, but with the individual lines referring in their titles to the main instrument