more severe penalties when certain circumstances accompany the illicit drug trafficking and make it an even greater threat to society, for example when trafficking is carried out by a criminal organisation. On the other hand, provision should be made for reducing the penalties when the offender has supplied the competent authorities with valuable information, in particular by helping to identify drug-dealing networks. It is necessary to provide for more severe penalties when certain circumstances accompany the illicit drug trafficking and make it an even greater threat to society, for example when trafficking is carried out by a criminal organisation. Amendment 5 Recital 7 It is necessary to take measures to enable the confiscation of the proceeds of the offences referred to in this framework decision. It is necessary to take measures to enable the confiscation of the instrumentalities, proceeds and advantages of the offences referred to in this framework decision. Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that confiscation of proceeds also serves to increase budgets for programmes for prevention and for the rehabilitation of drug users and for programmes to support their families. Amendment 6 Recital 8 a (new) (8a) It is also essential to cooperate with the competent international bodies in cases of illicit international drug trafficking beyond the borders of the Member States. Amendment 7 Recital 9 (9) Measures should also be foreseen for the purposes of cooperation between Member States with a view to ensuring effective action against illicit drug trafficking. (9) Measures should also be foreseen for the purposes of systematic and effective cooperation between Member States with a view to ensuring effective action against illicit, organised, international drug trafficking. In this context, Europol and Eurojust, as bodies firstly for police and secondly for judicial cooperation, should be recognised and become fully operational. Greater operationality requires a stronger legal basis, particularly so as to ensure control by the European Parliament and full jurisdiction for the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Amendment 8 Recital 9 a (new) (9a) It is necessary for the Member States to achieve a minimum consensus on the admissibility of the various investigative methods, resulting in a binding instrument ensuring minimum safeguards with regard to procedural law. Amendment 10 Article -1 (new) Article -1 Scope This framework decision relates to tackling serious and/or international illegal drug trafficking. Amendment 9 Article 1, point 1 1. "illicit drug trafficking" means the act, without authorisation, of selling and marketing as well as, for profit, of cultivating, producing, manufacturing, importing, exporting, distributing, offering, transporting or sending or, for the purpose of transferring for profit, of receiving, acquiring and possessing drugs; 1. "illicit drug trafficking" means the act, without authorisation and irrespective of the medium of communication , of selling and marketing as well as, for profit, of cultivating, producing, manufacturing, importing, exporting, distributing, offering, transporting or sending or, for the purpose of transferring for profit, of receiving, acquiring and possessing drugs; Amendment 11 Article 3 Member States shall take the necessary measures to make incitement to commit, aiding and abetting or attempting to commit