Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (23 August 2011) The EU and China have a comprehensive strategic partnership, which includes cooperation on economic and trade issues, as well as all the other areas mentioned by the Honourable Member. With particular reference to the economic area, it is recalled that at its meeting of 16 September 2010, the European Council identified the EU's strategic interests in its relations with China. They include the promotion of bilateral trade, market access for goods and services and investment conditions; the protection of intellectual property rights and the opening up of public procurement markets; stronger discipline in the field of export subsidies; and the dialogue on exchange rate policies. During the EU‑China Summit in Brussels, on 6 October 2010, the President of the Commission and the President of the European Council delivered strong and repeated messages on key EU concerns. They expressed to Premier Wen the EU desire to expand trade and investment and the need for a level playing field in China for EU businesses, in line with the concerns expressed in the report of the recent EU Chamber of Commerce in China. They stressed the importance of improved market access, a better environment for investment, more effective enforcement of intellectual property rights and the opening up of public procurement. They stated that improvements can be made to the benefit of both sides. Building on the strategic partnership it has with China, the EU is determined to continue to pursue these interests actively at all the appropriate levels of the bilateral relationship. The next round of the EU‑China High Level Economic and Trade Dialogue, to take place in the autumn, will certainly be employed to this respect. As always, the most important topics will also be included in the summit agenda. Regarding the issues of global concern, the EU will continue to work towards enhancing cooperation with China in the multilateral framework as well, in order to reach the best solutions.