by the Commission in 2007; insists that the Commission should present at least 5 such evaluations before the decision on discharge in respect of the financial year 2007, starting with the oldest agencies; 12. Is of opinion that recommendations of the Court of Auditors should be promptly implemented and the level of subsidies paid to the agencies should be aligned with their real cash requirements; considers further that the amendments to the general Financial Regulation should be incorporated into the agencies' framework financial regulation and into their various specific financial regulations; Presentation of reporting data 13. Notes that there is no standard approach among the agencies with regard to the presentation of their activities during the financial year in question and of their accounts and reports on budgetary and financial management, nor to the question as to whether a declaration of assurance should be drawn up by the agency's director; observes that not all agencies clearly distinguish between (a) presenting the agency's work to the public and (b) technical reporting on budgetary and financial management; 14. Notes that while the Commission's standing instructions for the preparation of activity reports do not expressly require the agency to draw up a declaration of assurance, many directors have nonetheless done so for 2006, in one case including an important reservation; 15. Recalls paragraph 41 of its resolution of 12 April 2005 Resolution of the European Parliament containing the comments accompanying the decision on the discharge to the Director of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2003 (OJ L 196, 27.7.2005, p. 69). , inviting the directors of the agencies from now on to accompany their annual activity report, which is presented together with financial and management information, with a declaration of assurance concerning the legality and regularity of operations, similar to the declarations signed by the Directors General of the Commission; 16. Asks the Commission to amend its standing instructions to the agencies accordingly; 17. Suggests in addition that the Commission should work with the agencies towards producing a harmonised model applicable to all agencies and satellite bodies clearly distinguishing between - an annual report intended for a general readership on the body's operations, work and achievements; - financial statements and a report on implementation of the budget; - an activity report along the lines of the activity reports of the Directors General of the Commission; - a declaration of assurance signed by the body's director, together with any reservations or observations which he considers it appropriate to draw to the attention of the discharge authority; General findings by the Court of Auditors 18. Notes the Court's finding (Annual Report, paragraph 10.29 OJ C 273, 15.11.2007, p. 1. ) that the disbursement of subsidies paid by the Commission from the Community budget is not based on sufficiently justified estimates of the agencies' cash requirements and that this, combined with the size of carry-overs, leads them to hold sizeable cash balances; notes further the Court's recommendation that the level of subsidies