lay down according to the urgency of the matter. The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 205(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission. The votes of the representatives of the Member States within the committee shall be weighted in the manner set out in that Article. The chairperson shall not vote. 4. The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee. If the measures envisaged are not in accordance with the opinion of the Committee, or if no opinion is delivered, the Commission shall, without delay, submit to the Council a proposal relating to the measures to be taken and shall inform the European Parliament thereof. 5. The Council may act by qualified majority on the proposal, within two months from the date of referral to the Council. If within that period, the Council has indicated by qualified majority that it opposes the proposal, the Commission shall re-examine it. It may submit an amended proposal to the Council, resubmit its proposal or present a legislative proposal. If on the expiry of that period the Council has neither adopted the proposed implementing act nor indicated its opposition to the proposal for implementing measures, the proposed implementing act shall be adopted by the Commission. Amendment 42 Article 18 Member States shall provide that the competent authority from or by whom personal data were received or made available will be informed on request about their further processing and the achieved results. Member States shall provide that the competent authority from or by whom personal data were received or made available will be informed about their further processing and the achieved results. Amendment 43 Article 19, paragraph 1, point (c) indent 4 a (new) – the time limits for storing the data, Amendment 44 Article 19, paragraph 2, introductory part and points (a) and (b) 2. The provision of the information laid down in paragraph 1 shall be refused or restricted only if necessary 2. The information laid down in paragraph 1 shall not be provided or the provision thereof shall be restricted only if necessary (a) to enable the controller to fulfil its lawful duties properly, (b) to avoid prejudicing of ongoing investigations, inquiries or proceedings or the fulfilment of the lawful duties of the competent authorities, to avoid prejudicing of ongoing investigations, inquiries or proceedings or the fulfilment of the lawful duties of the controller and/or the competent authorities, Amendment 45 Article 19, paragraph 4 4. The reasons for a refusal or restriction according to paragraph 2 shall not be given if their communication prejudices the purpose of the refusal. In such case the controller shall inform the data subject that he may appeal to the competent supervisory authority, without prejudice to any judicial remedy and without prejudice to national criminal procedure. If the data subject lodges an appeal to the supervisory authority, the latter shall examine the appeal. The supervisory