“the development of specific global public goods”. The future results of the EDCTP have to be looked at in this context. The initiative would fail should its resulting products eventually not be available for reasons of monopoly and/or high prices. Moreover, as the EDCPT is primarily a public initiative, involving in the first place a significant public investment, the ultimate results should serve the public interest, in this case the health of poor people. As a basic and underlying principle throughout all EDCPT activities, a transparent and public health oriented approach towards intellectual property is crucial. (Amendment 5 ) Annex, Point 1 These activities are aimed at strengthening the two main components of the EDCTP Programme : programmes/activities in Europe on the one hand and in the developing countries on the other. These activities are aimed at strengthening the two main components of the EDCTP Programme : programmes/activities in Europe on the one hand and in the developing countries on the other , with a distinct stress on the latter . Justification: The EDCTP must ensure that developing countries participate actively in every stage of the programme and the focus should be on developing programmes and activities in the developing countries. (Amendment 6 ) Annex, Point 2 Activities linked directly to the development of new products against the three diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis): ∙ support for clinical trials in the developing countries ; ∙ strengthening of capacities in the developing countries. Activities linked directly to the development of new products against the three diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis) . The new products will be developed with the objective of being adapted to the specific needs of developing countries : efficient, easy to use, adapted to the specific conditions and affordable for the populations : ∙ support for clinical trials in the developing countries; ∙ strengthening of capacities in the developing countries ; ∙ support for transfer of technology to the developing countries. Justification: Conditions of life, and therefore of care and treatment, of people affected by HIV/AIDS, malaria and/or tuberculosis in developing countries radically differ from developed countries for example practical aspects such as keeping drugs refrigerated and taking doses with food. This crucial element needs to be taken into account throughout the R&D process to avoid having an end product that is unusable or unaffordable. Women playing roles as carers and educators in many communities must be consulted to this effect. Also, only by supporting developing countries to implement a proper technical infrastructure will a way be found to sustainability and self-sufficiency on these issues. (Amendment 7 ) Annex, 2 (a) new 2 (a). Activities linked to establishing programmes for the accessibility of new products to reduce the devastating impact of communicable diseases in the developing countries: ∙ coordinated actions by European states, the pharmaceutical industry, governments of developing countries, donors, domestic and international agencies Justification: All relevant bodies, from the grassroots community bodies and women’s organisation to international pharmaceuticals and donors must be involved in establishing a programme for the accessibility of new products.