to the Commission, the Authority and the Member States within a period provided for in the programme. The programme shall include the following: a) the procedures concerning the submission and assessment of applications for renewal of approvals; b) the necessary data to be submitted including measures to minimise animal testing, in particular the use of non-animal test methods and intelligent testing strategies ; c) the time periods for submission of such data; d) rules on the submission of new information; e) rules on requests for confidentiality in accordance with Article 66. Article 20 Implementing measures A Regulation, adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4), shall set out the provisions necessary for the implementation of the renewal and review procedure, including, where relevant, the implementation of a programme of work, as provided for in Article 19 . Article 21 Renewal Regulation 1. A Regulation with due justification shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4) , providing that: a) the approval of an active substance is renewed, where appropriate, subject to conditions and restrictions; or b) the approval of an active substance is not renewed. 2. Where the reasons for not renewing the approval do not concern the protection of health or the environment , the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1 shall provide for a grace period for using up stocks of the plant protection products concerned, which shall be not longer than one year. Past this period, producers shall ensure the removal and safe disposal of the remaining stocks . 3. In the event of a ban or the withdrawal of the approval on health or environmental grounds, the plant protection product concerned shall be disposed of immediately. Article 22 Review of approval 1. The Commission may review the approval of an active substance at any time and shall give due consideration to requests for review from a Member State, the European Parliament and other stakeholders, based on current scientific and technical knowledge and monitoring data . Where it considers that there are indications that the substance no longer satisfies the criteria provided for in Article 4, or further information required in accordance with point (f) of Article 7 has not been provided, it shall inform the Member States, the Authority and the producer of the active substance, setting a time period for the producer to submit its comments. The Commission shall review the approval of an active substance where there are indications that the achievement of the objectives established in accordance with Article 4(1)(a)(iv) and (b)(i) and Article 7(2) and (3) of Directive 2000/60/EC may be compromised. 2. The Commission may ask the Authority for an opinion, or for scientific or technical assistance. The Authority shall provide its opinion or the results of its work to the Commission within 3 months of the request. 3. Where the Commission concludes that the criteria referred to in Article 4 are no longer satisfied, or the further information required in accordance with point (f) of Article 7 has