on the co-ordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the Community. Justification Verification after registration would create legal uncertainty and different problems resulting in the registration of the company in the register. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8a) In order to ensure transparency and disclosure of accurate information about SPEs, the Commission should establish and coordinate a database for SPEs, available on the Internet, for the purpose of disclosing, collecting and disseminating information and particulars concerning their registration, registered office, centre of activity, branches and any transfers of their registered office, transformation, merger, division, or dissolution. Justification It is important to guarantee disclosure and information at European level about SPEs established within the EU through a database and a website, in order to guarantee consistency between the specific regime of the SPE and the dimension of the Internal Market, to create transparency for the market and to help coordination among national authorities. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Recital 11 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (11) The SPE should not be subject to a high mandatory capital requirement since this would be a barrier to the creation of SPEs. Creditors, however, should be protected from excessive distributions to shareholders which could affect the ability of the SPE to pay its debts. To this end, distributions that leave the SPE with liabilities exceeding the value of the assets of the SPE should be prohibited . Shareholders, however, should also be free to require the management body of the SPE to sign a solvency certificate. (11) The SPE should not be subject to a high mandatory capital requirement since this would be a barrier to the creation of SPEs. Creditors, however, should be protected from excessive distributions to shareholders which could affect the ability of the SPE to pay its debts. To this end, distributions that leave the SPE with liabilities exceeding the value of the assets of the SPE should be prohibited and the management body of the SPE should be required to sign a solvency certificate. Justification In order to strengthen the provisions of the Commission proposal (as the minimum share capital foreseen by the articles of association of a SPE might not be enough to guarantee the creditors) it is useful to foresee a mandatory "solvency certificate". Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14) Competent national authorities should monitor the completion and legality of the transfer of the registered office of an SPE to another Member State. The timely access of shareholders, creditors and employees to the transfer proposal and to the report of the management body should be ensured. (14) Competent national authorities should monitor the completion and legality of the transfer of the registered office of an SPE to another Member State. The