health strategy and of other Community policies and activities, such as the internal market as it affects health systems, in contributing to a high level of human health protection, including developing criteria and methodologies for assessing policies for their impact on health and developing other links between public health and other policies; Amendment 45 Annex, point 1.7 a (new) 1.7 a. developing and operating a joint action with the plans drawn up under e-Europe to improve information on medicines available to the general public on the Internet, reviewing sources of medical information available and examining the possibilities for establishing a system of recognisable Community seals of approval to designate sites as trustworthy. Amendment 46 Annex, point 2.2 a (new) 2.2 a. Supporting the network's operation by developing and implementing a system to inform the general public, health professionals, patients' organisations and the sections of the population concerned in the Member States, as well as the candidate countries, about communicable diseases and, in particular, the dangers of the cross-border spread of resistant pathogens; Amendment 47 Annex, point 2.3 2.3. Developing strategies and mechanisms for preventing, exchanging information on and responding to non-communicable disease threats, including gender-specific health threats and rare diseases; 2.3. Developing preventive strategies and mechanisms , a vaccination and immunisation strategy and mechanisms for exchanging information on and responding to non-communicable disease threats, including gender-specific health threats and rare diseases; Amendment 48 Annex, point 2.3 a (new) 2.3 a. Developing preventive strategies and mechanisms in order to counter health threats from physical, chemical or biological sources caused by unforeseen events, inadequate structures or facilities, human error, or even terrorist acts; Amendment 60 Annex, point 2.6 a (new) 2.6 a. Developing strategies for reducing antibiotic resistance; Amendment 50 Annex, point 2.6 b (new) 2.6 b. Assisting candidate countries striving to raise the level of health provided to their populations, enhancing activities to combat communicable diseases in the European Union and Central and Eastern Europe, which together represent a threat of epidemic proportions, developing mechanisms to educate doctors and patients with regard to treatment options and disease management, supporting non-governmental organisations working at local, national and European level to improve the health of particularly underserved groups heavily affected by communicable diseases and setting up health promotion and prevention programmes. Amendment 51 Annex, point 3.1 3.1. preparing and implementing strategies and measures on life-style related health determinants, such as nutrition, tobacco, alcohol, drugs and other substances and on mental health, including measures to take in all Community policies and age-and gender-specific strategies; 3.1. preparing and implementing strategies and measures on life-style related health determinants, such as nutrition, physical activity, tobacco, alcohol, drugs and other substances and on mental health, including measures to take in all Community policies and age-and gender-specific strategies; Amendment 52 Annex, point 3.1 a (new) 3.1 a. developing a specific action to promote, by means of public awareness/information campaigns, an improved diet and eating habits which are better suited to the needs of the human body; Amendment 53 Annex, point 3.2 3.2. analysing the situation and developing, if necessary , strategies