{ "context": [ [ "Yuma International Airport", [ "Yuma International Airport (IATA: YUM, ICAO: KNYL, FAA LID: NYL) is a joint use airport with civilian and military flight activity operated in conjunction with the U.S. Marine Corps via the Marine Corps Air Station Yuma.", " The airfield is located three nautical miles (6 km) south of the central business district of Yuma, a city in Yuma County, Arizona, United States.", " It is mostly used for military aviation, but is also served by one commercial airline and one aeromedical Medevac company as well as being used for general aviation activities." ] ], [ "EgyptAir Flight 990", [ "EgyptAir Flight 990 (MS990/MSR990) was a regularly scheduled flight from Los Angeles International Airport, United States, to Cairo International Airport, Egypt, with a stop at John F. Kennedy International Airport, New York City.", " On October 31, 1999, the Boeing 767 operating the route crashed into the Atlantic Ocean about 60 mi south of Nantucket Island, Massachusetts, killing all 217 people on board.", " The official probable cause of the crash was deliberate action by the relief first officer." ] ], [ "TWA Flight 358", [ "Trans World Airlines Flight 358 (TWA Flight 358) was a domestic flight traveling from Chicago's O'Hare International Airport to New York City's John F. Kennedy International Airport.", " On June 11, 1971, a ticketless man named Gregory White boarded the Boeing 727 aircraft using force and demanded a machine gun, $75,000, and to be flown to North Vietnam.", " After murdering a passenger, White was soon apprehended at the John F. Kennedy International Airport by FBI agents, wounded, and arrested.", " It was the first attempted hijacking in the United States that resulted in a passenger fatality." ] ], [ "Transportation in New York City", [ "The transportation system of New York City is a network of complex infrastructural systems.", " New York City, being the most populous city in the United States, has a transportation system which includes one of the largest subway systems in the world; the world's first mechanically ventilated vehicular tunnel; and an aerial tramway.", " New York City's airport system, which includes John F. Kennedy International Airport, LaGuardia Airport, Newark Liberty International Airport (located in New Jersey), Stewart Airport and a few smaller facilities, is one of the largest in the world.", " New York City is also home to an extensive bus system in each of the five boroughs, and numerous taxis throughout the city." ] ], [ "John F. Kennedy International Airport", [ "John F. Kennedy International Airport (IATA: JFK, ICAO: KJFK, FAA LID: JFK) , often referred to as Kennedy Airport, or simply JFK, is the primary international airport serving New York City.", " It is the busiest international air passenger gateway into North America, the fifth busiest airport in the United States and the busiest airport in the New York City airport system, handling just under 59 million passengers in 2016.", " Over ninety airlines operate out of the airport, with non-stop or direct flights to destinations in all six