WRITTEN QUESTION E-3419/04 by Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (16 December 2004) Subject: Female genital mutilation Female genital mutilation is a violation of the dignity of large numbers of women worldwide. This inhuman practice exists, according to UNICEF data, in 40 countries and affects 135 m women; in some countries it is present sporadically or in certain tribes, while in others it is systematic and affects most of the female population. About 25 countries in Africa and Asia have expressed their opposition to the practice or have attempted policies of some kind for its eradication. The causes of this practice must be sought in sexual, sociological and aesthetic factors or in tribal or cultural traditions. However, behind this cruel practice with its grave physical and psychological effects there lies a problem of gender, namely the failure to respect women's dignity and the manifest discrimination against women existing in some societies. This is not only an African or Asian problem but a European one too: cases have occurred in immigrant communities in certain EU Member States, and many European countries receive frequent asylum applications from women trying to escape becoming the objects of this practice. Can the Commission state which Member States have specific legislation against female genital mutilation? Does the Commission believe that specific legislation needs to be adopted at European level to tackle the problem of female genital mutilation, on the basis of a global approach leading to its prohibition via education and awareness-raising campaigns? Does it see the ablation issue as one of respect for human rights which should prevail over cultural or religious values, and, therefore, consider fighting and condemning the practice to be a potential key element in the EU's negotiations and cooperation with countries where it exists, thus protecting the lives and dignity of large numbers of women? Can the Commission state whether it possesses statistical data on female genital mutilation in Europe?