on international food aid, and whereas the World Food Program reported in September 2009 that a third of North Korean women and children were malnourished, Q. whereas the society is governed by a ‘military first’ policy and the juche ideology, which requires veneration of the country's leader, R. whereas according to credible reports by defectors, the population is subjected to forced labour mobilisation campaigns, while people's access to education and employment opportunities are based on their songbun (social class status), which is determined by their or their family's loyalty to the regime, S. whereas the ‘currency reform’ of 30 November 2009 has resulted in severe damage to the already failing economy and has led to the further impoverishment of non-privileged sections of society, resulting in serious social discontent, T. whereas no foreign journalist is allowed unrestricted access to the DPRK and whereas the Korean Central News Agency is the only source of information for all media outlets in North Korea, while radios and TVs can only receive signals from government stations and the reception of foreign broadcasts is strictly prohibited, with severe sanctions applied; whereas the general population of the country has no access to the internet, 1. Calls on the DPRK to put an immediate end to the ongoing grave, widespread and systematic human rights violations perpetrated against its own people, which may amount to crimes against humanity and thus be subject to international criminal jurisdiction; 2. Calls on the DPRK to immediately and permanently stop public executions and abolish the death penalty in the DPRK; 3. Calls on the DPRK to put an end to extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances, to stop the use of torture and forced labour, to release political prisoners and to allow its citizens freedom of travel; 4. Calls on the DPRK authorities to ensure access to food and humanitarian assistance for all citizens on the basis of need; 5. Calls on the DPRK to allow free expression and press freedom, as well as uncensored access to the internet for its citizens; 6. Calls on the EU to support the establishment of a UN Commission of Inquiry to assess past and current human rights violations in the DPRK in order to determine to what extent such violations and impunity associated with the abuses may constitute crimes against humanity, and calls on EU Member States to sponsor a UN resolution at the General Assembly to that end; 7. In view of the gravity of the situation, calls on the EU to appoint an EU special representative on the DPRK to ensure persistent attention and coordination both within the European Union and with key partners such as the United States and the RoK; 8. Calls on the DPRK authorities to follow the recommendations of the Report of the Working Group on the Universal Periodic Review by the Human Rights Council, and, as a first step, to allow inspection of all types of detention facilities by the International Committee of the Red Cross and other independent international experts, and to allow UN Special Rapporteurs to visit the country; 9.