Question for written answer P-008951/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Corinne Lepage (ALDE) (6 October 2011) Subject: Health effects of bisphenol A On 27 September 2011, the French Food Safety Agency (ANSES) published two reports, one on the health effects of bisphenol A (BPA) and the other on its uses. These reports highlight the effects — proven in animals and suspected in humans — that BPA has on health, even at low levels of exposure. Experts have identified three areas where BPA is suspected of affecting human health, namely women’s fertility, cardiovascular pathologies and diabetes. The report concludes that these effects ‘were demonstrated at doses that were significantly lower than the reference doses used for regulatory purposes, especially during certain periods of life (pregnancy, pre- and post-natal periods)’. The tolerable daily intake (TDI) of 0.05 mg/kg body weight per day set by EFSA does not therefore seem to be a viable threshold for protection against the effects of BPA. In September 2010, EFSA reaffirmed that it had not found anything that could lead it to revise the tolerable daily intake (TDI) level set in its 2006 scientific opinion and reconfirmed in its 2008 opinion. However, at the end of November 2010, the Commission announced that it was going to ban the manufacture and sale throughout the EU of baby bottles containing BPA. This became effective on 1 June 2011. ANSES considers that it has sufficient scientific evidence to identify the priority as being to prevent those members of the population that are the most susceptible, namely nursing infants, young children, pregnant and breastfeeding women, from being exposed to BPA and for BPA to be replaced without delay in materials that come into contact with foodstuffs. In light of the studies published by ANSES: — Will the Commission be asking EFSA to review the effects of BPA and re-examine its position on the TDI of BPA? — Is the Commission planning, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to propose very shortly measures to protect the most susceptible sections of the population (nursing infants, young children, pregnant and breastfeeding women), such as, for example, the labelling of food packaging containing BPA? — Pending BPA labelling and its possible replacement, will the Commission urge the Member States to launch precautionary information campaigns?