Commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation and recommends to the Budget Authority to approve the applications. In order to mobilise the Fund, the Commission has submitted to the Budget Authority a transfer request (DEC 09/2010) for a global amount of EUR 2.570.853 from the EGF reserve (40 02 43) in commitments and from ESF budget lines (04 02 17 - ESF convergence) in payments to the EGF budget lines (04 05 01). Concerning the alternative sourcing of payment appropriations , Commission explained that the practice followed until now has been of sourcing the necessary payment appropriations from the ESF budget because of the policy "proximity", and given that the annual requirement for the EGF in payment appropriations thus far have been in the range of 1% of the ESF payment endowment. However, at this early stage of the budget year, such alternative sources are difficult to identify. Nevertheless, with a view to meet this request for future EGF cases, the Commission is willing to look into the possibility of finding alternative sourcing of payment appropriations whenever this is possible and reasonable and where there is no risk of delay to the processing of the request for transfer. The IIA allows the mobilisation of the Fund within the annual ceiling of EUR 500 million. Art. 12 (6) of the EGF Regulation requests that on 1st September at least 25% of the annual maximum amount of the EGF shall remain available in order to cover needs arising until the end of the year. In 2010, the Budget Authority has already approved five proposals for the mobilisation of the Fund, for a total amount of EUR 16.338.363, in favour of Germany (Karmann) and Lithuania (Snaige, Buildings construction, manufacture of furniture and wearing apparel sectors), leaving an amount of EUR 483.661.637 available. III. Procedure The Commission has presented a transfer request DEC 09/2010 of 6 May 2010 in order to enter specific commitment and payment appropriations in the 2010 budget, as required in Point 28 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006. The trialogue on the Commission's proposal for a Decision on the mobilisation of the EGF could take a simplified form (an exchange of letters), as provided for in Article 12(5) of the legal base, unless there is no agreement between the Parliament and the Council. According to an internal agreement, the Employment and Social Affairs Committee (EMPL) should be associated to the process, in order to provide constructive support and contribution to the assessment of the applications from the Fund. Following its evaluation, the EMPL committee of the European Parliament gave its view on the mobilisation of the Fund, as expressed in the opinion attached to the present report. The Joint Declaration of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, adopted during the conciliation meeting on 17 July 2008, has confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure with due respect of the Interinstitutional Agreement for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the Fund. ANNEX: LETTER OF THE COMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT AND