community level, which allows the creation of co-operative groupings in the community territory, invested with legal personality, called “European groupings of territorial co-operation” ( EGTC) . Recourse to the EGTC is optional. Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 6 Recital 7 a (new) (7a) Agreements on border, inter-regional or supranational cooperation between Member States and/or regional and local authorities may continue to be applied. Justification The entry into force of the Regulation cannot limit the field of application of legal provisions forming the basis of intergovernmental agreements such as the Karlsruhe agreements. Amendment 7 Recital 9 (9) The tasks and competencies of the EGCC must be set out in a “Convention of European cross-border co-operation”. (9) The tasks and competencies of the EGTC must be set out in a “Convention of European grouping of territorial co-operation”. Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 8 Recital 10 (10) The members may decide to set up the EGCC either as a separate legal entity or to assign its tasks to one of the members. (10) The members set up the EGTC as a separate legal entity and it may assign its tasks to one of the members. Amendment 9 Recital 11 (11) The EGCC must be able to act, either for implementing programmes of cross-border co-operation co-financed by the Community, notably within the structural funds in conformity with Regulation (EC) No (…) and Regulation (EC) No (…) on the European Regional Development Fund, as well as trans-national and inter-regional co-operation programmes, or for carrying out cross-border co-operation programmes which are at the sole initiative of the Member States and their regional and local authorities, without financial contribution by the Community. (11) The EGTC must be able to act, either for implementing programmes of cross-border co-operation co-financed by the Community, notably within the structural funds in conformity with Regulation (EC) No (…) and Regulation (EC) No (…) on the European Regional Development Fund, as well as trans-national and inter-regional co-operation programmes, or for carrying out territorial co-operation programmes which are at the sole initiative of the Member States and/or their regional and local authorities, without financial contribution by the Community. Amendment 10 Recital 11 a (new) (11a) Whereas the Commission should ensure synergy between this Regulation and the Council of Europe Additional Protocol* to the European Outline Convention on Transfrontier Co-operation between Territorial Communities or Authorities concerning the establishment of Euroregional co-operation groupings (ECG). _________________ * No 3 as a draft. Justification The EGCC regulation refers to Member States only, while the partners of cross-border, trans-national and inter-regional cooperation include candidate and third countries, for which the Additional Protocol No. 3 to the European Outline Convention on Transfrontier Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities will be valid, therefore joint EC and Council of Europe efforts are suggested to harmonise the two drafts. Amendment 11 Recital 13 (13) It should be specified that the powers exercised by regional and local authorities as public authorities, notably police and regulatory powers, cannot be the subject of a convention. (Does not affect the English version) Amendment 12 Recital