to the Commission and the other Member States if legislative or regulatory measures are enacted in respect of Articles 7, 9(2), 19(5) and 20 through the network established by Decision 2006/688/EC. 1. Member States shall communicate to the Commission and the other Member States if legislative or regulatory measures are enacted in respect of Articles 7, 9(2), 19(5) and 20 through the network established by Decision 2006/688/EC and shall identify the specific measures concerned . Amendment 58 Proposal for a directive Article 22 – paragraph 3 3. Annually, and for the first time no later than 1 April of [one year after the date of transposition of this Directive], Member States shall communicate to the Commission and the other Member States through the network established by Decision 2006/688/EC statistics on the volumes of third-country nationals who have been granted, renewed or withdrawn an EU Blue Card during the previous calendar year, indicating their nationality and their occupation. Statistics on admitted family members shall be communicated likewise. For holders of the EU Blue Card and members of their families admitted in accordance with the provisions of Articles 19 to 21, the information provided shall in addition specify the Member State of previous residence. 3. Annually, and for the first time no later than 1 April of [one year after the date of transposition of this Directive], Member States shall communicate to the Commission and the other Member States through the network established by Decision 2006/688/EC statistics on the volumes of third-country nationals who have been granted, renewed or withdrawn an EU Blue Card during the previous calendar year, indicating their nationality and their occupation in accordance with legislation for the protection of personal data . Statistics on admitted family members shall be communicated likewise with the exception of information concerning their occupation . For holders of the EU Blue Card and members of their families admitted in accordance with the provisions of Articles 19 to 21, the information provided shall in addition specify the Member State of previous residence.