in conjunction with the new Article 6a on the Review Clause. In other words, this amendment only mandates the Commission to adopt its position on the technical modifications of the ATM Master Plan, after invoking the "Advisory Procedure" of Comitology. Amendment 35 Article 5 a (new) Article 5a Accession of new members The Commission shall report to the European Parliament and the Council on the accession of new members of the Joint Undertaking. The accession of new members, including members from third countries, shall be subject to the approval of the European Parliament and of the Council. Justification The legal provision is borrowed from the Galileo Joint Undertaking (Reg.(EC) N°876/2002), slightly amended as to the role of the European Parliament. It is a necessary condition for a public-private partnership (PPP), like the SESAR Joint Undertaking. Amendment 36 Article 6 Every three years from the start of the activities of the Joint Undertaking and upon expiry of the term of the Joint Undertaking, the Commission shall carry out assessments on the implementation of this Regulation, the results obtained by the Joint Undertaking and its working methods. Pursuant to Article 173 of the Treaty, from the start of the activities of the Joint Undertaking and upon expiry of the term of the Joint Undertaking, the Commission shall carry out assessments on the implementation of this Regulation, the results obtained by the Joint Undertaking and its working methods. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council reports on the results of these assessments and on the conclusions to be drawn therefrom. Justification It must be ensured that Parliament and the Council are kept fully and constantly informed of the results and working methods of the Joint Undertaking. The SESAR Joint Undertaking is a long-term project for which regular assessments are indispensable in order to identify shortcomings and delays at the earliest possible stage. Parliament's involvement in this process should be made clear. Amendment 37 Article 6 a (new) Article 6a Review If the Commission considers it necessary or if either the European Parliament or the Council requests, under the comitology procedure, the revision of this Regulation or of the statutes of the Joint Undertaking , the Commission shall submit the appropriate legal proposal in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Treaty. Justification This is an important procedural amendment seeking to safeguard the European Parliament's prerogatives in Community legislation. Amendment 38 Annex, Article 1, paragraph 2, indent 3 - any other public or private undertaking or body. - any other public or private undertaking or body that has concluded at least one agreement with the Community in the field of air transport . Justification Given the PPP nature of the SESAR Joint Undertaking, there should be reasonable conditions attached to the membership of the Joint Undertaking. This amendment seeks to insert one condition, i.e. an agreement with the EC. Amendment 39 Annex, Article 1, paragraph 3 3. Any request for accession pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be addressed to the Executive Director, who shall transmit it to the Administrative Board. 3.