Directive 95/46/E C . The competent authorities of the other Member States shall not store the information sent by the State of offence ; it shall be se n t solely for the purpose s of the Directive, and, upon conclusion of proceedings, all data must be verifiably deleted. Justification It must be ensured that data are rigorous protected, i.e. that they cannot be transferred elsewhere or be used for other purposes. Amendment 17 Proposal for a directive Article 4 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the exchange of information described in Article 3 is carried out by electronic means. For this purpose, Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that an EU electronic network based on common rules is set up no later than 12 months after the date mentioned in Article 9 (1). 4. Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the exchange of information described in Article 3 is carried out by electronic means. For this purpose, Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that a Community electronic network based on common rules is set up no later than 12 months after the date mentioned in Article 9 (1). Justification The electronic network used for exchanging road safety information must be managed by the European Community. Amendment 18 Proposal for a directive Article 4 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Common rules concerning the implementation of paragraph 1 shall be adopted by the Commission by the date mentioned in Article 9(1) in accordance with the regulatory procedure provided for in Article 8 (2) . 2. Common rules concerning the implementation of paragraph 1 shall be adopted by the Commission by the date mentioned in Article 9(1) in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 8 (3) . Justification The Community rules for the implementation and management of the electronic network must be determined according to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. Amendment 19 Proposal for a directive Article 4 – paragraph 2 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) the technical procedures for electronic exchange of the data between Member States; (b) the technical procedures for electronic exchange of the data between Member States , guaranteeing the security and confidentiality of the data transmitted ; Justification The rules must be established by the Commission after consulting the Member States, and must include all procedures required for the proper implementation of this directive. Amendment 20 Proposal for a directive Article 4 – paragraph 2 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) personal data security and protection rules to prevent data being used for purposes other than those for which they were intended . Justification Common rules must be laid down, without breaching data security and protection obligations, in order to prevent data being used for purposes other than those for which they were gathered. Amendment 21 Proposal for a regulation Article