for the purpose of consultations with interested parties, or (c) be a document from an institution or body of the European Union which has been officially submitted to the European Council or a document produced by the latter; - the document must be forwarded in all the official languages of the European Union; - the request for authorisation must be submitted no later than four months after the date on which the document in question was forwarded to Parliament or on which it was published in the Official Journal. 4. Reports not referring to a basic document from a Community institution must not deal with topics to which specific reference has already been made in the annual legislative and work programme presented by the Commission and approved by Parliament for the current year. Article 3 Procedure Automatic authorisation 1. Authorisation shall be granted automatically after notification of the request to the Conference of Committee Chairs for - implementation reports; - annual activity and monitoring reports, as listed in Annex 1 Role of the Conference of Committee Chairs 2. Duly substantiated requests for authorisation shall be forwarded to the Conference of Committee Chairs, which shall ascertain their compliance with the criteria set out in Articles 1 and 2 and with the quota established in Article 1. All such requests shall contain an indication of the type and the exact title of the report and the basic document(s), if any. 3. Requests for authorisation to draw up strategic reports shall be granted by the Conference of Committee Chairs after resolution of any conflict of competence. The Conference of Presidents may, at the specific request of a political group, revoke such authorisation within no more than four parliamentary business weeks. 4. The Conference of Committee Chairs shall forward to the Conference of Presidents, for authorisation, requests to draw up legislative own-initiative and non-legislative own-initiative reports that are assessed as being in compliance with the criteria and quota allocated. The Conference of Committee Chairs shall at the same time notify the Conference of Presidents of any annual activity and monitoring reports, as listed in Annexes 1 and 2, implementation reports and strategic reports that have been authorised. Authorisation by the Conference of Presidents and resolution of conflicts of competence 5. The Conference of Presidents shall adopt a decision on requests for authorisation to draw up legislative own-initiative and non-legislative own-initiative reports within no more than four parliamentary business weeks after they have been forwarded by the Conference of Committee Chairs, unless it decides, on exceptional grounds, to extend that deadline. 6. If a committee's competence to draw up a report is challenged, the Conference of Presidents shall take a decision within six parliamentary business weeks on the basis of a recommendation from the Conference of Committee Chairs or, if no such recommendation is forthcoming, its chair. If the Conference of Presidents fails to take a decision within that period, the recommendation shall be declared to have been approved This paragraph was inserted following the decision adopted in plenary on 15 June 2006 concerning the interpretation of