residence in the Member State concerned as holder of an EU Blue Card, access to the labour market for the person concerned shall be restricted to the exercise of paid employment activities which meet the conditions for admission set out in Articles 5 and 6. Modifications of the terms of the work contract that affect the conditions for admission or changes in the work relationship shall be subject to the prior authorisation in writing of the competent authorities of the Member State of residence, according to national procedures and within the time limits set out in Article 12(1). 1. For the first two years of legal residence in the Member State concerned as holder of an EU Blue Card, access to the labour market for the person concerned shall be restricted to the exercise of paid employment activities which meet the conditions for admission set out in Articles 5 and 6. Modifications of the terms of the work contract that affect the conditions for admission or changes in the work relationship shall be notified in advance, in writing , to the competent authorities of the Member State of residence, according to national procedures and within the time limits set out in Article 12(1). Amendment 43 Proposal for a directive Article 13 – paragraph 2 2. After the first two years of legal residence in the Member State concerned as holder of an EU Blue Card, the person concerned shall enjoy equal treatment with nationals as regards access to highly qualified employment. The holder of the EU Blue Card shall notify changes in his/her work relationship to the competent authorities of the Member State of residence, according to national procedures. 2. After the first two years of legal residence in the Member State concerned as holder of an EU Blue Card, the person concerned shall enjoy equal treatment with nationals. Amendment 44 Proposal for a directive Article 14 – paragraph 1 1. Unemployment in itself shall not constitute a reason for revoking an EU Blue Card, unless the period of unemployment exceeds three consecutive months. 1. Unemployment in itself shall not constitute a reason for withdrawing or failing to renew an EU Blue Card, unless the period of unemployment exceeds six consecutive months. Amendment 45 Proposal for a directive Article 14 – paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. An EU Blue Card holder shall have the right to remain on the territory of the Member States for as long as he/she is engaged in training activities aimed at further increasing his/her professional skills or professional re-qualification. Amendment 46 Proposal for a directive Article 14 – paragraph 2 2. During this period , the holder of the EU Blue Card shall be allowed to seek and take up employment under the conditions set out in Article 13(1) or (2) whichever is applicable. 2. During the periods mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 1a , the holder of the EU Blue Card shall be allowed to seek and take up highly qualified employment under the conditions set out in Article 13(1) or (2) whichever is applicable. Amendment