of other bodies, but notes that the G20 has a number of shortcomings as a global institution, including a lack of representation of small nations, a lack of transparency and democratic accountability, as well as a lack of a legal basis to make its decisions legally binding; 39. Encourages the IMF and G20 to seek, and act on, input and advice from global economies with low budget deficits and disciplined government expenditure; 40. Stresses that the euro area, in the context of debates on global monetary arrangements, needs to be considered as a single entity given its single currency and single exchange rate policy; 41. Urges the EU and its Member States to seek solutions to further improve coordination between the G formations and the UN system; 42. Calls for the establishment of an international board of central banks – comprised in the first place of the central banks of the EU, Japan, UK and US – with a mandate to coordinate monetary policy, to oversee financial supervision, and to extend and promote the SDRs as a global reserve currency; 43. Recommends that the IMF be strengthened politically with annual summits of the leaders of the countries represented in the Executive Board of the IMF; against this background, also encourages the Member States of the IMF to appoint persons from the most senior ranks of government to the Executive Board, so that it can take the lead as the forum for discussions and decisions regarding global economic governance; 44. Considers that it is necessary to increase the transparency of international capital flows, in particular by seeking to bring banking secrecy to an end; Global financial sector governance 45. Stresses that the lack of cooperation among financial supervisors facilitated the spread of the financial crisis and worsened its effects; calls in this regard for the Union's supervisory authorities to take the lead in building international cooperation and establishing best practices in financial regulation; also underlines that convergence towards a common financial regulatory framework between the US and the EU would be beneficial; 46. Notes that there is a need for the global implementation of reforms that improve the transparency and accountability of financial institutions; 47. Stresses that, although legislation designed to improve the regulation of some areas of the financial sector has been adopted in the world's financial centres, further reforms of rules and practices in the banking and shadow banking system are warranted; 48. Stresses the need to give European financial supervisory bodies a clear mandate to work in close cooperation with their non-EU or international counterparts, as the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) does with the Financial Stability Board (FSB); 49. Stresses the need to combine micro- and macro-prudential supervision as part of a coherent, uniform approach; 50. Notes that the US and EU together account for almost 40% of global trade and almost 50% of global GDP and recommends an enhanced macro-prudential dialogue, with a focus on the Atlantic dialogue, thorough and even-handed implementation of the Basel III package and further discussions on widening the scope of supervision to non-bank