works council. The partnership committee administers the participation model (see II ii) and makes proposals for changes to the profit distribution key between labour and capital and among the employees (e.g. distribution according to performance, evaluating work according to age, department, family situation). In certain circumstances it proposes instead of profit-sharing a share in performance, productivity or turnover (in this connection see the ‘gainsharing’ concept and model on page 6 of the Commission communication). The partnership committee elects the employees’ representative on the general partnership advisory board, which is equivalent to the supervisory board of a public limited company. III. Investment options outside the company for financially participating employees of SMEs These options are needed if the employees’ profit shares earmarked for investment are not invested in their own SME. At all events, the SME pays its employees a salary. In addition it pays them investment remuneration for their work (e.g. in the form of a profit-share to be invested). If it is not possible to invest this in their own enterprise through, for example, dormant participation (or as ‘employee participation capital’) because this is not desired by the employees and/or employers, then there are the following possibilities for the employees’ share of profits: i) acquiring a stake in another enterprise e.g. in the form of shares; ii) acquiring shares in an investment club; this must include the possibility of creating special investment societies or enterprise participation societies, which channel their resources back to SMEs so that they can finance investment there. Employees can also acquire shares in these new societies that are set up to improve SMEs’ capital resources. 25 March 2003 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON ECONOMIC AND MONETARY AFFAIRS for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the Commission communication to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on a framework for the promotion of employee financial participation ( COM(2002) 364 – 2002/2243(INI)) Draftsman: Alain Lipietz PROCEDURE The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs appointed Alain Lipietz draftsman at its meeting of 1 October 2002. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 2 December 2002, 18 February and 25 March 2003. At the last meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote Christa Randzio-Plath (chairwoman), José Manuel García-Margallo y Marfil, Philippe A.R. Herzog, John Purvis (vice-chairmen), Generoso Andria, Roberto Felice Bigliardo, Armonia Bordes, Hans Udo Bullmann, Bert Doorn (for Renato Brunetta), Harald Ettl (for Giorgos Katiforis), Jonathan Evans, Carles-Alfred Gasòliba i Böhm, Robert Goebbels, Lutz Goepel (for Ingo Friedrich) , Lisbeth Grönfeldt Bergman, Mary Honeyball, Othmar Karas, Piia-Noora Kauppi, Christoph Werner Konrad, Werner Langen (for Brice Hortefeux), Astrid Lulling, Thomas Mann (for Mónica Ridruejo), Ioannis Marinos, David W. Martin, Miquel Mayol i Raynal, Peter Michael Mombaur (for Hans-Peter Mayer), Fernando Pérez Royo, Elly Plooij-van Gorsel (for Christopher Huhne), Alexander Radwan, Bernhard Rapkay, Olle Schmidt, Peter William Skinner, Ieke van den Burg (for Pervenche Berès) and Theresa Villiers. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs calls on the Committee on Employment