Answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission (20 May 2011) The question concerns the use of cars with registration plates of third countries in Italy by persons having their normal residence there. These cars have apparently been imported from a third country but have not been declared to customs upon their bringing into the customs territory of the Union. As they have not been registered in Italy, the Italian car registration tax nor annual circulation tax would seem to have been paid either. First of all, the Commission would like to point out that Directive 83/182/EEC OJ L 105, 23.4.1983. does not apply in the situations described, as this directive is about tax exemptions within the EU for certain means of transport temporarily imported into one Member State from another, not about cars imported from third countries. For cars imported from a third country by private persons, exemptions from customs duty and VAT apply, provided that the car is imported on the occasion of a change of normal residence which requires a declaration to customs (see Article 3 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1186/2009 Council Regulation (EC) No 1186/2009 of 16 November 2009 setting up a Community system of reliefs from customs duty. , as far as customs duty is concerned and Article 3 of Directive 2009/132/EC Council Directive 2009/132/EC of 19 October 2009 determining the scope of Article 143(b) and (c) of Directive 2006/112/EC as regards exemption from value added tax on the final importation of certain goods. , as far as VAT is concerned). In other circumstances, customs duty and VAT are due upon release for free circulation. The Commission had not been informed so far of the situation described by the Honourable Member. However, the collection and control of customs duties and VAT on goods entering the EU is primarily the competence and responsibility of the Member States. As fractions of customs duties and VAT constitute own resources for the EU budget, the Commission checks, on regular basis, the control systems applied by Member States and can hold them financially liable in case non‑collection of customs duties or VAT is attributable to them. Car registration and circulation taxes are national taxes which are not harmonised at EU level. The control of their correct application falls within the sole competence of the Member States.