economy may once again delay the ECB’s exit from non-standard measures; considers, however, that a comprehensive, lasting solution not involving the ECB should be sought for sovereign debt management, H. whereas interest rates in the euro area remained at 1% throughout 2010, but have since been raised by 25 basis points in April 2011 and again by 25 basis points in July 2011, bringing them to 1.5%; I. whereas Article 282 of the TFEU states that the primary objective of the ECB is to maintain price stability and that the ECB should support general economic policies to help achieve it, and also notes the work by the ESRB under the auspices of the ECB on financial stability; Introduction 1. Welcomes the fact that so far the ECB has been remarkably successful in maintaining HICP inflation at close to 2% despite a number of macro-financial shocks and volatile commodity prices and at a time when average GDP growth has been low in the Union; 2. Expresses concern at the effect of interest rate increases on economic growth in the euro area; adds that this could hinder the already slow recovery in the euro area, particularly in its weakest economies; 3. Emphasises that, while month-on-month HICP inflation has generally been above 2% since the beginning of 2010, what matters for monetary policy are future inflation expectations, the low level of which is a testimony to the ECB's high degree of credibility and independence; 4. Stresses that before the financial crisis private debt, as well as credit bubbles and in some cases public debt, increased in an unsustainable way, and that risks were created through private debt bubbles; notes, further, that the increase in government debt was the result of the need to save the private sector, in particular the financial sector; 5. Takes the view that, in addition to the HIPC, asset price trends and credit growth in the EU and in Member States are crucial indicators for the effective monitoring of financial stability within the EMU and, more broadly, the EU; 6. Notes that the public-debt-to-GDP ratio of the euro area is much lower that that of the US and Japan; 7. Believes in the strength of the euro area economy and in the importance of the euro as an international currency; 8. Recalls that, in accordance with Article 282 of the TFEU, the primary objective of the ECB is price stability and that this contributes to financial stability and proper liquidity in financial markets; notes that financial instability poses a serious risk to medium-term price stability in that it hampers the smooth functioning of the transmission mechanisms of monetary policy; welcomes the creation of the ERSB on 1 January 2011 under the auspices of the ECB; congratulates the ECB on the decisive role it has played by taking emergency measures to maintain market stability; 9. Emphasises that under Article 127(6) of the TFEU the Council, acting by means of regulations in accordance with a special legislative procedure, may unanimously, and after consulting the European Parliament and the European Central Bank, confer specific