Director-General Research, European Commission: · The private sector provides about two-thirds of the funds spent on research in the EU each year. · The point about the need to simplify the procedures linked to applications for and awarding of EU research funds is frequently made. · The ongoing revision of the Financial Regulation has a significant role to play in simplifying bureaucratic procedures linked to accessing EU funds. · There is enough flexibility within the EU research programmes to re-allocate funds as research priorities change over time. Freedom, Security and Justice 20. Fernando Reinares , Elcano Royal Institute : · The EU should do more to co-ordinate efforts in the field of counter-terrorism. · The short-term focus should be on dealing with existing threats and prevention of the emergence of new threats. · The EU's preparedness for "aftermath measures" in the wake of a terrorist incident could be improved and better co-ordinated. · The longer-term policy priority should be on understanding the underlying drivers that motivate terrorist actions. 21. Luciano Scagliotti , European Network Against Racism: · A common EU migration policy is needed, without which a co-ordinated EU approach is not possible. · There should be a greater focus on using the skills of migrants within the EU in the EU labour market. · It is disappointing that essentially no EU funds are devoted to helping third-country nationals to integrate into the EU. Communications policy 22. Claus Sorensen, Director-General for Communication, European Commission: · Focussed his comments on improving the Commission's strategy as regards press relations, highlighting the need for improved co-ordination across policy areas. · In the view of many Heads of Commission Delegations in EU member states, European media stories must be presented in "local terms" so that people can relate to them more easily. · There is good co-operation with the European Parliament as regards the "Europe by satellite" (EbS) system. Annex I: Speaking note of Ashraf Ghani Presentation to European Parliament Budget Committee I Context · Context has changed: opportunities have changed, so have threats. Challenge from the privileged half of the world to think about the less privileged half. · Globalization both reveals the liberating potential of the market for generating unlimited wealth, and the blindness of the market as a mechanism for distributing the consequences of this wealth. If world prosperity and security depend on leading the process of globalization towards producing equal opportunity, then the issue of creating mechanisms through which all people can participate in global prosperity must move to the forefront of the international agenda. · Ten years ago consensus on democracy and the market, now being called into question - Latin America to Maoists in India and Nepal, wave of violence. · Hence urgency of the need to think about different types of intervention, different time horizons, need to lead the way both out of uncertainty and to manage crises. Balance between pursuit of a common vision and flexible capacity for response in face of crisis. Need for harmonization, coordination and co-production on the international side, placing aid in the larger