% Mediterranean & Middle East (including Iraq, 160 million) 1 002 9,6 % Latin America 312 3,0 % Thematic programmes (all regions, including Emergency Aid) 2 258 21,7 % Total Budget 7 130 68,5 % EDF (77 ACP countries) 3 275 31,5 % Grand Total Assistance 2004 10 405 100% * (except the EDF which is outside the budget) For the proposal at hand, and especially in the run-up to negotiations on a new Financial Perspective (and possibly also new proposals for the lending mandates and the Guarantee Fund) the complete picture of the EU's available instruments must of course be considered. Remarks 22. The aim of this proposal is to make sound adjustments to the lending ceilings in order to take into account the Wider Europe-New Neighbourhood policy (terminology should be changed to the European Neighbourhood Policy ). 23. A modification of the lending capacity is being used as a foreign policy tool/development tool, and these loans are, and will be, guaranteed through the Guarantee Fund, which is being provisioned from the general budget. 24. A modest amount is envisaged for Russia and the WNIS, intended to allow the EIB to begin preparations in these countries. The Commission says that, at present, the Bank has little experience to operate in these countries and no real local presence. The actions that could be envisaged are almost certainly mainly in the environmental and nuclear security fields. 25. Following discussions in the Parliament on the Wider Europe-New Neighbourhood Policy, it now seems likely that also the South Caucasus will be included, or at least very closely associated with the European Neighbourhood Policy. Apparently, the Council is also thinking along these lines. 26. The rapporteur endorsed the new Neighbourhood Policy in Cobu's opinion to that report. He is convinced of its importance for Europe and the partner countries alike. In that light, is the relatively small amount foreseen for the Russia and the WNIS lending mandate really sufficient? 27. Considering that "the ring of friends" around Europe must certainly not exclude or create barriers to our "friends" that happen to be a little further away, geographically speaking, the rapporteur questions the idea of only including the Western New Independent States (Belarus, Moldavia and Ukraine) in the new small envelope created. 28. The rapporteur considers that the Southern Caucasus and Central Asian countries should not be totally excluded. It should be recalled that the EIB of course only proceeds to actual loans on a strict basis and when all necessary conditions are met. These countries are Armenia, Azerbajan, Georgia, Kazakstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. 29. Also taking into account the new Investment Facility for ACP countries (under the Cotonou Agreement), the rapporteur would point out that the EU has equipped itself with lending capacity (lending mandates) for practically every country in the world (with the obvious exception of rich countries like the US, Canada, Norway etc). It would send a strange political signal to completely exclude the remaining TACIS countries in the Southern Caucasus and Central Asia mentioned above. Why exclude these when practically every