Post-Briefing - 3-6 September 2007 - Strasbourg plenary session 2007-09-10 - 13:45 NB: An audio summary of 3-6 September Strasbourg plenary session can be accessed via the link here and at the end of this publication. Condolences to this summer's disaster victims; deceased European leaders remembered Parliament's President Hans-Gert Pöttering opened the plenary session following the summer recess by expressing his sadness at the recent deaths of Gaston Thorn and Raymond Barre, "who both served as distinguished European Commissioners and as prime ministers of their respective countries" (Luxembourg and France). He also sent Parliament's condolences to the victims of this summer's natural disasters in Europe, including the floods in Britain, the heatwave in the Mediterranean and the forest fires in Greece. He also mentioned the 500 victims of the earthquake in Peru on 15 August, the thousands of deaths from the violence in Iraq and the many refugees who risked their lives seeking to reach the EU via the Mediterranean and the Atlantic. The House observed a minute's silence in honour of the lives of all these people. President of Portugal stresses solidarity as key European value The President of Portugal, Aníbal Cavaco Silva, addressed the House in which he focused above all on the theme of solidarity "as a fundamental pillar of European integration". Introducing Mr Cavaco Silva, Parliament's President Hans-Gert Pöttering said that previous Portuguese presidencies had been particularly "ambitious" in their scope and also that Portugal's history gave it a special position: MEPs adopt four reports on Better Regulation in the EU The key points of this package include emphasising plain and simple language, the importance of adequate and independent impact assessments, based on wide-ranging consultation of stakeholders and that "soft law" all too often constitutes an ambiguous and ineffective instrument which is liable to have a detrimental effect on Community legislation. Natural disasters, EU solidarity fund needed without delay and European reaction force In adopting a joint resolution on natural disasters, MEPs call on the Commission to mobilise the current EU Solidarity Fund in the most flexible manner possible, without delay, while calling for greater spending on flood defences. The House also request the creation of a European force that could immediately react in emergencies. On the fires in Greece, MEPs want the Member States to abstain from commercialisation, to strengthen penal sanctions for criminal acts that damage the environment. MEPs debate the fight against terrorism - a new EU anti-terrorism co-ordinator? The debate against the fight against terrorism with the participation of the Commission and the Council focused on whether current EU legislation and data-sharing between the Member States should be fully assessed as to its effectiveness. MEPs also questioned whether the Council should appoint a new EU anti-terrorism co-ordinator following Mr de Vries decision to step down in February 2007. The House will vote on a resolution on the issue during its plenary session in Brussels in October. (10-11 October). MEPs call for liquids on planes legislation to be repealed unless new conclusive facts are brought forward The House adopted a resolution with 464 votes in