Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (16 June 2009) The Commission is committed to ensuring effective mobility for all EU citizens, including those with physical disabilities. It has taken action which has resulted in the adoption of legislation on the rights of passengers, including disabled passengers and passengers with reduced mobility Regulations (EC) Nos 1107/2006 of Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 concerning the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air , OJ L 204, 26.7.2006, and 1371/2007 of Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on rail passengers’ rights and obligations, OJ L 315, 3.12.2007. . The regulations in question provide for a number of measures applicable at all EU airports and railway stations and during journeys throughout the Community to ensure that passengers with reduced mobility have equal access to air and rail transport without discrimination and at no additional cost, and that they receive the necessary assistance. Similar measures are being prepared for travel by sea and inland waterways and for bus and coach transport. The Commission has issued a standardisation mandate to the European standardisation organisations in support of European accessibility requirements for public procurement in the built environment. The mandate refers to accessibility requirements in transport-related facilities and takes due account of Community legislation addressing accessibility issues, such as the abovementioned regulations. On 2 July 2008, the Commission adopted a proposal COM(2008)426 final. for a Council directive on implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective, inter alia , of disability. Article 4 of the proposal states that, in order to guarantee compliance with the principle of equal treatment in relation to persons with disabilities, the measures necessary to enable persons with disabilities to have effective non-discriminatory access, inter alia , to transport are to be provided by anticipation, including through appropriate modifications or adjustments. Notwithstanding the obligation to ensure non-discriminatory access and, where needed in particular cases, the provision of reasonable accommodation. Furthermore, the Commission is promoting the use of the standardised model parking card for people with disabilities introduced by Council Recommendation 98/376/EC Council Recommendation of 4 June 1998 on a parking card for people with disabilities, OJ L 167, 12.6.1998. Recommendation as last adapted by Council Recommendation 2008/205/EC, OJ L 63, 7.3.2008. and which is intended to be mutually recognised by all Member States. It provides that the holder of a standard Community model parking card issued by a Member State can utilise parking facilities available to people with disabilities in any Member State. The Commission has set up a website http://parkingcard.europa.eu providing information to facilitate the use of the card and has published an information booklet http://ec.europa.eu/employment_social/docs/en_bookletparkingcard_080522.pdf .