Question for written answer E-002645/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Andrea Cozzolino (S&D) , Sergio Gaetano Cofferati (S&D) , Debora Serracchiani (S&D) and David-Maria Sassoli (S&D) (8 March 2012) Subject: Verifying the sale process of the company Tirrenia di Navigazione In November 2009, the Tirrenia Group — a 100 % subsidiary of Fintecna, a company fully controlled by the Ministry of Economy and Finance and consisting of Tirrenia di Navigazione, Caremar, Toremar, Saremar and Siremar — sold 100 % of its regional companies Caremar, Toremar and Saremar respectively to the regions of Campania, Tuscany and Sardinia. In December 2009, Fintecna then published a ‘call for expressions of interest in the purchase of Tirrenia di Navigazione’, which, on 4 August 2010, fell through because Mediterranea Holding, the only entity remaining to compete, did not agree to sign the sale contract. Since 5 August 2010, Tirrenia di Navigazione has been under special administration and on 12 August the Bankruptcy Division of the Court of Rome decreed a state of insolvency under the Marzano Law. On 15 September 2010, a new call for ‘expressions of interest’ was published, which concluded on 15 March 2011 with Compagnia Italiana di Navigazioni (CIN) winning the bid. This company consists of three Italian shipping companies (the Moby, Marinvest and Grimaldi groups). On 25 July 2011, a contract was signed that officially recognised the privatisation of Tirrenia di Navigazione. At present, the company employs a crew of 1 150, in addition to 209 general shift workers and covers essential social and economic connections between mainland Italy and its islands. CIN has pledged to maintain the workforce, replace obsolete ships, strengthen the sales network, bring on-board standards up to international levels and improve passenger travel services and conditions. A potential negative evaluation of the sale process would have immediate and severe repercussions for employees of Tirrenia di Navigazione, as well as social ramifications for those who use this essential mainland/island connection service. Can the Commission therefore express its view on the sale process of Tirrenia di Navigazione and say whether it considers it compliant with the competition laws in force?