Answer given by Mr Hahn on behalf of the Commission (11 August 2011) 1. From the beginning of the 2007‑13 programming period, Member States recognised the importance of energy efficiency and renewable energy in the text of their operational programmes. However, this was not adequately reflected in the priorities of the programmes. On the basis of the information provided by the Member States, the planned support for sustainable energy for the period 2007‑13 is approximately EUR 9 billion. Relative shares differ between Member States according to the funds available, national needs, and priorities set by each Member State. For 2014‑20, the Commission proposal focuses on energy efficiency and renewable energy in the future competitiveness and transition regions in particular. Following proposals from the Commission to further facilitate investments in these fields, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) Regulation http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2009:126:0003:0004:EN:PDF , and the Structural Funds General Regulation http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2010:158:0001:0006:EN:PDF have been amended. As a result it is now possible to use of up to 4 % of national ERDF allocations for investments in energy efficiency and renewable energies in residential buildings. Moreover, the rules were further clarified in relation to the eligibility and use of financial engineering instruments for sustainable energies in buildings, encouraging public-private partnerships in this sector. The financial crisis, administrative bottlenecks and insufficient expertise in this area of activity have contributed to delays in a number of Member States. The Commission is monitoring the progress of the Member States in this field. 2. The communication ‘Regional Policy contributing to Sustainable Growth in Europe 2020’ COM(2011)17 final, 26.1.2011. stresses the role of local and regional authorities in reaching the Europe 2020 target of reducing energy consumption by 20 %, invites regions and cities to accelerate energy investments and provides good practices. In addition, the Commission is working on a bilateral basis with each Member State to reinforce the implementation rates. The Commission has also established two instruments, the European Local Energy Assistance since 2009, and the European Energy Efficiency Facility since 2011, with technical assistance budgets to help municipalities put together projects with leverage effects and added value. Both are designed to help in particular the cohesion policy projects. The transformation of the European building stock, in particular existing buildings, will require substantial investments. In addition to the EU, funding is also needed at national level. That is why Article 10 of the Energy Performance in Buildings Directive (2010/31/EU), stresses ‘the importance of providing appropriate financing and other instruments to catalyse the energy performance of buildings and the transition to nearly zero-energy buildings’, and requests Member States to ‘take appropriate steps to consider the most relevant instruments in the light of national circumstances’. Member States had to submit to the Commission by 30 June 2011 a list of measures established for that purpose. The Commission will assess effectiveness of the listed measures and may provide recommendations and advice on specific national schemes and coordination with EU and international funding instruments.