the 'legal complexity of the situation'. A separate discharge in respect of the implementation of individual sections of the budget is not provided for by either the Treaty or the Financial Regulation. The relevant provisions are set out in Article 274, the second paragraph of which states that: 'The regulations shall lay down detailed rules for each institution concerning its part in effecting its own expenditure' . In 1994, Article 22 of the Financial Regulation was re-drafted as follows: Paragraph 2: The Commission shall confer upon the European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Justice, Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee, and the Committee of the Regions the requisite powers for the implementation of the sections of the budget relating to them....' Paragraph 5: Save as otherwise provided, the Ombudsman, the Economic and Social Committee and Committee of the Regions shall, for the purposes of this Financial Regulation, be treated as institutions of the Communities.' Expert opinion infers from Article 22, paragraph 2, of the Financial Regulation that the requisite powers for the implementation of these sections of the budget have been conferred on those institutions and bodies so that the 'Commission no longer has any responsibility '. J. Schoo in Schwarze, EU Commentary, 2000, Note 12 on Article 274 TEC. 'They (the bodies) are thus made permanently responsible for the implementation of their own budgets. To this extent, the Commission has no responsibility'. R. Bieber in Groeben Thiesing, Ehlermann, Commentary on EU/EC Treaty, 5th Edition, Note 8 on Article 205 TEC (now 274). If these claims are correct, there would appear at first sight to be a contradiction with the principle derived from Article 276 of the EC Treaty, whereby the Commission, and it alone, is to be given discharge in respect of implementation of the whole budget, the subject of this discharge thus being an account of all revenue and expenditure of the Community, excluding only 'financial activities of the Community outside the general budget of the EU' J. Schoo, op. cit, Note 5 on Article 276 TEC. . One way of resolving this contradiction might be to assume that the prevailing principle established by Article 274 of the EC Treaty of the Commission's specific responsibility for implementation of the budget is implicitly restricted to the extent that 'measures taken for the purposes of implementing the budget must be attributable to the Commission' R. Bieber, op. cit, Note 7 on Article 205. . Discharge cannot, however, be given where there is no responsibility. In other words: it is meaningless for discharge to be given to the Commission in respect of actions for which is not accountable. However, this then means that there are 'discharge loopholes' in respect of the implementation of the individual budgets of Community bodies. It follows from the discharge's function as formal closure of the accounts and from the meaning and purpose of Parliament's political power of scrutiny, as set out in the discharge procedure under Article 276 of the EC Treaty, that these loopholes should be closed by means of a discharge to be