Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (18 November 2005) The Commission is conscious of the precarious economic situation of a substantial part of the European fishing fleet, which has been compounded by the hike in fuel prices but essentially by the situation of the stock. The Commission believes that the current difficulties of the sector show the fragility of its economic base. This situation stems from, among other things, declining catches and incomes. Necessary tough measures to rebuild fish stocks and ensure the sustainability of fisheries add to the constraints on the sector and prevent increases in production which could compensate for the shortfall in income. The Commission believes that the fishing sector has a future if it can be helped through a restructuring process aimed at reaching a better balance between the fleets and the available fish. This would give the industry a more secure economic base that would allow it to ride out cyclical problems, instead of being economically threatened by events such as the high cost of fuel. The Commission is, therefore, working on measures in the short, medium and long term with a view to strengthening the economic situation of the sector. In the short term, existing instruments may be utilised. In particular, Member States may apply measures under the existing regulatory framework, such as assistance to finance changes towards less fuel consuming fishing techniques. This includes for example changes in the equipment on board a vessel. Aid for temporary cessation of fishing activities under Article 16 of the current FIFG regulation is also possible. These are aid measures that could be made use of immediately. For the medium to long term, the Commission will ask the Member States to define national restructuring plans to secure the long term viability of the vessels concerned. Under these plans and with common criteria, temporary financial assistance may be granted to fishermen and the setting of vessel owners against commitments aiming at more sustainable fishing practices and restoring financial profitability. In addition, the Commission will encourage research on fuel efficiency and alternative options for fishing vessels and operations while the current threshold for de minimis aid to the fisheries sector, which is set at EUR 3000 over three years for a given firm, will be re-examined.