the prudential measures to uphold the smooth and orderly functioning of the financial markets. (37) The authorisation to operate a regulated market should extend to all activities which are directly related to the display, processing, execution, confirmation and reporting of orders from the point at which such orders are received by the regulated market to the point at which they are transmitted for subsequent finalisation, and to activities related to the admission of financial instruments to trading. This should also include transactions concluded through the medium of designated market makers appointed by the regulated market which are undertaken under its rules and systems. (38) Operators of a regulated market should also be able to operate an MTF without being required to obtain additional authorisation as an investment firm. (39) The provisions of this Directive concerning the admission of instruments to trading under the rules enforced by the regulated market should be without prejudice to the application of Directive 2001/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 May 2001 on the admission of securities to official stock exchange listing and on information to be published on those securities OJ L 184, 6.7.2001, p. 1. . A regulated market should not be prevented from applying more demanding requirements in respect of the issuers of securities or instruments which it is considering for admission to trading than are imposed pursuant to this Directive. (40) Member States should be able to designate different competent authorities to enforce the wide-ranging obligations laid down in this Directive. Such authorities should be public, thereby guaranteeing their independence of economic actors and avoiding conflicts of interest. The designation of public authorities should not exclude delegation under the responsibility of the competent authority. (41) It is necessary to enhance convergence of powers at the disposal of competent authorities so as to pave the way towards an equivalent degree of enforcement across the integrated financial market. A common minimum set of powers coupled with adequate resources should guarantee supervisory effectiveness. (42) With a view to protecting clients and without prejudice to the right of customers to bring their action before the courts, it is appropriate that Member States encourage public or private bodies established with a view to settling disputes out-of-court, to cooperate in resolving cross-border disputes, taking into account Commission Recommendation 98/257/EC of 30 March 1998 on the principles applicable to the bodies responsible for out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes OJ L 115, 17.4.1998, p. 31. . When implementing provisions on complaints and redress procedures for out-of-court settlements, Member States should use existing cross border co-operation mechanisms, notably the Financial Services Complaints Network (FIN-Net). (43) It is necessary to reinforce provisions on exchange of information between national competent authorities and to strengthen the duties of assistance and cooperation which they owe to each other. Due to increasing cross-border activity, competent authorities should provide each other with the relevant information for the exercise of their functions, so as to ensure the effective enforcement of this Directive including in situations where infringements or suspected infringements may be of concern to