Reply (7 March 2005) The EU fully supports Georgia's aspiration to closer relations with the European family, but the subject of possible membership is not currently on the agenda. The EU recognises the strategic importance of Georgia and the other two countries in the South Caucasus to an enlarged EU. Over the past year, the EU has become increasingly engaged in Georgia and the South Caucasus. On 7 July 2003 the EU appointed a Special Representative for the region. On 14 June 2004 the Council decided to include Georgia (as well as Armenia and Azerbaijan) in the European Neighbourhood Policy. On 16 and 17 June 2004 the EU was jointly responsible with the World Bank for hosting an international donor conference on Georgia, to support the new government. On 16 July 2004 the EU launched in Georgia its first rule‑of‑law mission in the context of the ESDP: EUJUST THEMIS. The European Neighbourhood Policy offers the potential for Georgia and its neighbours to benefit from closer ties to the enlarged Union, increasing stability, security and prosperity for both the EU and its neighbours. The European Neighbourhood Policy does not in principle hold out the prospect of eventual EU membership, unlike the Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the countries of the Western Balkans or the Association Agreement with Turkey. The EU is fully committed to playing an active, effective and visible role in its relations with Georgia. The EU wishes to develop these relations in the context of steadfast efforts for reform and implementation of reform, to produce lasting change for the benefit of all. The ‘Rose Revolution’ has brought about a new climate in Georgia, but a lot remains to be done to promote democracy, human rights and the rule of law, to consolidate the foundations of the market economy and make sure it functions properly, and in particular to resolve the frozen conflicts in the South Caucasus, i.e. in Nagorno‑Karabakh, South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Georgia can count on EU support in its efforts to develop democracy and the economy and to fight corruption. Ultimately, however, it is in Georgia's hands to continue to demonstrate that it shares the values of the European Union not only in principle, but also in practice.