Appointed Actuaries in the form of letters ..." (WE32) WE32, para.10,14. . The main output of GAD's monitoring of an insurance company was a " Detailed Scrutiny Report " for the prudential supervision authority. At the start of the period under review, " there was no doubt that GAD was the dominant partner in the supervision of life insurance companies. GAD had more resources and technical expertise than the officials in the insurance division of the DTI. But the balance of power had shifted more to the staff involved in supervision by the time responsibility for supervision transferred from the DTI to the Treasury in 1997, partly as a result of increased numbers and better quality of supervision staff" . see ES-2, Chapter 4.1. In May 1997, the UK Government announced the creation of a single industry regulator (the future FSA), independent from government, which was to take over the roles of nine existing self-regulating bodies. 2b) Period 1998 - 2001 While the FSA was being created, HM Treasury assumed (from 5 January 1998 until 1 January 1999) " full responsibility as prudential competent authority, answerable for DTI's past actions in that capacity " (WE32) WE32, para.7.ii). . As part of the transitional phase, the DTI Insurance Directorate staff was transferred temporarily to the Treasury, pending transfer to the FSA. The Treasury was therefore directly responsible for the prudential regulation of insurance companies such as Equitable Life. From 1 January 1999, as part of a transitional arrangement, the Treasury outsourced the day-to-day supervision of insurance companies to the FSA, remaining ultimately in charge and retaining its regulatory role until the FSA was given full statutory powers by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) . 2c) Period post-2001 Today the FSA is an independent non-governmental body, a company limited by guarantee and financed by the financial services industry. The Treasury appoints the FSA Board, currently consisting of a Chairman, a Chief Executive Officer, three Managing Directors, and 10 non-executive directors. The Board sets out overall policy, with day-to-day management being the responsibility of the Executive. As sole financial regulator, the FSA is accountable to the Treasury, and through it to the UK Parliament. The FSA gained full regulatory powers on 1 December 2001 and currently has, out of nine sector teams, one specifically dedicated to the supervision of the insurance sector. Its key functions are risk-identification (identify emerging insurance risks and coordinate ways to mitigate these), managing contacts with a wide range of external stakeholders for the insurance sector, keeping under review the coherence of FSA requirements and policies as they bear on the insurance sector and, if needed, interpreting new rules and requirements. Every year, each insurer authorized by the FSA must send it an insurance return containing audited financial information and auditors' reports. 3. Conduct of Business (CoB) Regulation The purpose of the Conduct of Business rules in the life assurance business can be defined as ensuring that: · retail insurance products offered on the market are suitable to investors · investors understand all risks involved in the policy