Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (29 May 2007) The elimination of barriers to trade for companies selling across internal frontiers within the EU remains a priority for the Commission. The results of the public consultation on the Future Single Market Policy Commission Staff Working Document SEC(2006)1215/2, 30.10.2006; see:http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/strategy/index_en.htm and several ‘Eurobarometer’ polls show that stakeholders consider that there are still a number of remaining barriers. These results and polls as well as specific studies are being used for the ongoing Single Market Review, the interim report of which was published on 21 February 2007 COM(2007)60 final. . In the field of services, Directive 2006/123/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market OJ L 376, 27.12.2006. will remove discriminatory and unjustified barriers, cut red tape, and modernise and simplify the legal and administrative framework, thus facilitating the right of establishment and the freedom to provide services within the EU. Besides the existing Community acquis that ensures that companies can market their products (goods and services) freely and without encountering non-tariff trade barriers within the EU, the Commission has recently tabled a package COM(2007)35 final. of important proposals to eliminate a number of remaining barriers in the field of goods. These measures will ensure that the Internal Market does indeed become a reality for all manufacturers and producers, and will make it easier for companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to trade their products in the EU. Firstly, a proposal for a Parliament and Council Regulation COM(2007)36 final. will make it easier for manufacturers of products that are not subject to harmonised legislation at Community level to access the full Community market. Secondly, a proposal for a Parliament and Council Regulation COM(2007)37 final. aims at introducing strengthened rules on market surveillance to protect citizens from unsafe products, including imports into the Community coming from outside the Union. The objective is also to enhance confidence in conformity assessments of products by strengthening the role of accreditation for conformity assessment bodies. Thirdly, a proposal for a Parliament and Council Decision COM(2007)53 final. sets out a common legal framework for industrial products, which will work as a toolbox for future sectoral legislation, to create coherent, simple common definitions and procedures for the marketing of industrial products. A full review of the Internal Market will be finalised in autumn 2007. Wherever possible the review will be accompanied by practical proposals, if needed also further legislative proposals.