economic operators in its territory free of charge. The computerised system shall, if technically possible, be merged with the NCTS. Together they shall form a single integrated computer system for surveillance of the movements of excisable goods and of excisable/dutiable third-country goods. Article 4 1. The Commission shall coordinate the setting-up and running of the Community and non-Community components of the computerised system, and in particular: a) the infrastructure and tools needed to guarantee the system's internal links and overall interoperability; b) the development of features ensuring the highest possible level of security in order to prevent unauthorised access to data and to guarantee the integrity of the system; c) the exploitation of data to combat fraud, particularly by applying risk analysis at the Community level. 2. To achieve the aims of paragraph 1, the Commission shall conclude the requisite contracts and shall draw up, in cooperation with the Member States, management plans for setting up and running the system. The management plans shall state which initial tasks and which routine tasks the Commission and the individual Member State, respectively, are responsible for completing, the completion date for each task and what evidence of completion may be required. Article 5 1. The Member States shall ensure that they complete, by the date specified in the management plans mentioned in Article 4(2), the initial and routine tasks allocated to them. They shall report to the Commission when each task has been completed and shall provide proof of the date of its completion. 2. No Member State shall take any action relating to the setting-up or running of the computerised system that might affect the system's internal links and overall interoperability or its functioning as a whole. Any measure that a Member State might wish to take and that could affect either the computerised system's internal links and overall interoperability or its functioning as a whole shall only be taken with the prior agreement of the Commission. 3. Member States shall inform the Commission regularly of any measure they may have taken to enable their respective administrations to make full use of the computerised system. 4. After the introduction of the computerised system, Member States may reduce the comprehensive guarantee required from authorised warehousekeepers under Article 13(a) of Directive 92/12/EEC to 30% of the standard guarantee, provided that the authorised warehousekeeper meets the criteria for such a waiver as laid down in Articles 372-384 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 of 2 July 1993 laying down provisions for the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1. . Article 6 The Commission shall introduce any measures that are needed for the implementation of this Decision in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 7. These implementing measures shall not affect the Community provisions governing the raising and checking of indirect taxes or administrative cooperation and mutual assistance in matters of indirect taxation. Article 7 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on Administrative Cooperation in the field of Indirect Taxation