absorption capacity, needs assessment, respect of conditionalities, and capacity of management. It shall also be reviewed, where appropriate, in view exceptional assistance measures or interim response programmes adopted under the Regulation establishing the Stability Instrument. The funds allocated to cross-border co-operation programmes with Member States shall be at least equivalent to the corresponding financing from the European Regional Development Fund. 1. The Commission , having regard to the recommendation of the European Parliament, shall, on the basis of a strategic approach, taking into consideration the financial perspective, as well as the European Partnerships and Accession Partnerships, establish an indicative multi-annual framework with an allocation of funds by component and country, and where appropriate per theme. This shall be reviewed annually having regard to the recommendation of the European Parliament , taking into account a set of objective criteria including absorption capacity, needs assessment, respect of conditionalities, and capacity of management. It shall also be reviewed by a similar procedure , where appropriate, in view exceptional assistance measures or interim response programmes adopted under the Regulation establishing the Stability Instrument. The funds allocated to cross-border co-operation programmes with Member States shall be at least equivalent to the corresponding financing from the European Regional Development Fund. Amendment 19 Article 4, paragraph 2 (2) The indicative multi-annual framework shall be communicated annually by the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament. 2. The indicative multi-annual framework shall be communicated in due time annually by the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament. In its annual report, the Commission shall set out in detail the extent to which the European Parliament's recommendations have been taken into consideration. Should it deviate from the recommendations of the European Parliament, the Commission shall give its reasons for doing so. Amendment 20 Article 4, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The procedure provided for under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be without prejudice to the European Parliament's prerogatives as budgetary authority under the Treaty. Amendment 21 Article 6, paragraph 2 (2) Such cooperation shall have the objective of fostering stability, security and prosperity in the mutual interest of all countries concerned, and of encouraging their harmonious, balanced and sustainable development. 2. Such cooperation shall have the objective of promoting good neighbourly relations, fostering stability, security , prosperity and social cohesion in the mutual interest of all countries concerned, and of encouraging their harmonious, balanced and sustainable development. Amendment 22 Article 10, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. In exceptional cases, where, in absence of agreement between a Member State and a beneficiary country, implementation tasks of a cross-border programme cannot be delegated to Member States, those tasks may be administered in some other appropriate way in accordance with Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002. The Commission shall ensure coordination and consistency between assistance provided by this Regulation and assistance provided by other Community instruments. Amendment 23 Article 10, paragraph 5 a (new) 5a. Before their implementation, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament about the Community's aid programmes under this Regulation. In order for this ex-ante control to be carried out,