Council should be replaced by more formal structures; takes the view that this development accompanied by the creation and reinforcement of integrated and cross-theme structures will result in a better coordination of policies; ° ° ° 48. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Background Each parliamentary committee may draw up an implementation report, which is a report on the transposition of EU legislation into national law and the implementation and enforcement thereof in Member States. In the case of cohesion policy the legislative framework consists of directly applicable regulations, the implementation measures of which are covered by a Commission regulation and Commission decisions which are not submitted to Parliament. The Committee on Regional Development took the view that in the context of the unfolding debate on the future of cohesion policy a report on the implementation should analyse whether legislation has been properly applied by the Member States. Scope of the report The own-initiative report has a two-fold aim: first, it analyses how the indicative framework of the Community Strategic Guidelines 2007-2013, and in particular the Guideline 1.2 on Improving Knowledge and Innovation for Growth, was followed by the Member States and Regions in their National Strategic Reference Frameworks (NSRF's) and Operational Programs. Second, the report analyses the synergies between cohesion, research and innovation policies and their instruments (Structural Funds, Seventh Framework programme for RTD and Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme). It has to be noted, that the report is limited in its scope since it was drawn up in the beginning of 2010 before the publication of the Commission’s Strategic Report. Momentum EU, national and regional funding schemes sometimes remain uncoordinated. However, it has to be noted that both EU cohesion policy and R&D and Innovation policies serve the same cause: addressing major challenges of the European Union and upholding an EU model based on economic growth, social responsibility and sustainable development. Fostering sustainable economic growth and job creation is more and more dependant on the capacity of regional economies to innovate and in the context of the global economic crisis this aspect became even more important, also confirmed by the role given to cohesion policy in the European Economic Recovery Plan. It is clear at the European level that policies which enhance competitiveness and innovation are urgently needed to speed up restructuring and investment and to create new business opportunities. Furthermore, Parliament needs to present its point of view in the discussion on the future of cohesion policy. It has to discuss the possible improvements on the basis of evaluation. Cohesion Policy delivering research and innovation objectives Since the very beginning of the current programming period, cohesion policy seeks to target three priorities, one of them being encouraging innovation, entrepreneurship and the growth of the knowledge economy, by research and innovation capacities, including new information and communication technologies. R&D and innovation can help the European Union to achieve its growth objectives. That is why cohesion policy also targets investments that strengthen the long term competitiveness of the EU, such as entrepreneurship,