A key question is whether the legal base for will cover only development cooperation (Art 179 of the Treaty) or also economic, financial and technical cooperation (Art 181 of the Treaty). A dual legal base would give the Commission a freer hand to spend assistance money on economic, financial and technical cooperation with (e.g.) China, but could, as a consequence, reduce money available for development assistance. Key themes 12. As referred to earlier in this working document, the European Commission has devoted major efforts in recent years to " deconcentrating " the level at which development assistance is spent. This has given a greater role to EC Delegations in third countries. The higher rates of development assistance spending as set against commitment appropriations does, of course, also reduce the scope for shifting payments between budget lines for different regions/ projects according to evolving requirements. 13. The coherence agenda is about ensuring that the efforts of the various stakeholders are mutually complementary and reinforcing. The objective is thus to reduce overlapping work or mutually inconsistent goals. Coherence between actors can be analysed at a number of levels and across policy areas and policy actors. Some questions for the hearing · How effective has spending on development assistance been during the 2000 - 2006 financial perspective? What improvement should be made and incorporated into future development assistance programmes? · How successful has deconcentration been in improving the effectiveness and efficiency of EC development aid spending? · What further work is needed to ensure the coherence of EC development assistance with that provided by national (notably EU member states) and multinational donors (notably the UN system)? What scope is there for best-practice learning between donors and for effective co-operation, for instance between the EU and US? · What more can be done to ensure that public and private (NGOs, benefactors) assistance is provided in complementary ways, for example in the area of education policy? · What can be done to streamline the way in which politicians and officials in recipient developing countries interact with politicians and officials in donor governments and organisations? That is to say, how can governance of the overall system be improved? How can coherence be ensured between development policies and policies in other spheres, such as trade policy or environmental policy? on the promotion of democracy and human rights "Energy and persistence conquer all things" Benjamin Franklin (1706 - 1790) Background 1. Since the latter part of the 1980s, as democratic transition spread through various parts of the world, there has been a rapid and significant expansion in assistance programmes financed by the European Union and other major donors to support the development of human rights and democracy (HRD). This was also incorporated as a specific goal in the EU treaties. The overall purpose of these programmes has been two-fold: (a) to promote HRD for their own sake, as a political good that will improve the lives of citizens by bringing more freedom, political representation and government accountability; (b) to support the idea that the promotion of human rights and democracy