participate in two joint working sessions over the two days. 09:00 12:30 Brussels, ASP 5E2 Delegation to the EU-Mexico 5th Joint Parliamentary Committee, 27-28 November 2007 The 5th EU-Mexico Interparliamentary Meeting will take place on 27 - 28 November in the European Parliament. Representatives from the Mexican Parliament will discuss issues of mutual interest with MEPs, including the EU's new Reform Treaty, climate change, economic relations, student exchanges, human rights, and social cohesion. 09:00 18:30 Brussels, ASP 1G2 EP Delegation for Relations with Afghanistan - 27 to 29 November 2007 Meeting of the EP delegation for the relations with Afghanistan with a delegation from the Afghan Parliament A 9-Member Delegation from the Afghan Parliament will visit the European Parliament from 27-29 November. They will attend meetings with the Foreign Afairs committee, the Development committee, and the EP's recently created Delegation for Relations with Afghanistan. The Afghan representatives will also attend workshops on the fight against drugs, good governance, and the security situation in Afghanistan with select MEPs, and visit the plenary session of the EP on Wednesday. 10:00 18:30 Brussels, PHS 5B1 EP Delegation for relations with the Mashreq countries PUBLIC HEARING: Iraki refugees in Syria and Jordan The EP's Delegation for relations with the countries of the Mashrek is organising a public hearing on the 2.5 million Iraqi refugees in Syria and Jordan. Invited experts from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and Amnesty International as well as Commission representatives will talk about this major challenge in the region, and about the possible contributions the European Parliament could make to ease the life of these people. 15:00 17:00 Brussels, ASP 5G2 Public hearings Health Check of the CAP How should EU common agricultural policy look in the future? Further to the Commission statement on 20 November 2007, MEPs will get the opportunity to debate with experts after introductions from Neil PARISH (EPP-ED, UK), Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and Lutz GOEPEL (EPP-ED, DE), rapporteur. Invited experts: Dr. P. Michael SCHMITZ, Institut für Agrarpolitik und Marktforschung, Universität Gießen Prof. Mieczyslaw ADAMOWICZ, Agricultural University, Warsaw Rémi TOUSSAIN, AgroParisTech, Paris Dr. Klaus Dieter SCHUMACHER, Toepfer International Prof. José Manuel LIMA SANTOS, Instituto Superior de Agronomica de Lisboa René LOUAIL, European Farmers Coordination Ulrich Jasper, Arbeitsgemeinschaft bäuerlicher Landwirtschaft, Germany 15:00 18:30 Brussels, Plenary Chamber Other events Joint meeting with National Parliaments - The Future of the EU as an area of Freedom, Security and Justice Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs This meeting is co-organised by the Committee s on Civil Liberties from the European Parliament and the Assembleia da República of Portugal . National members and MEPs will debate issues such as how to impose sanctions to employers of illegal immigrants or how to ensure the protection of personal data while effectively fighting terrorist attacks. Among the external guests there will be high-level speakers such as : - Rui Pereira, Portuguese Minister of Internal Administration, - José Magalhaes, Secretary of State for Internal Administration, - José Conde Rodrigues, Secretary of State for Justice, - Gilles de Kerchove, European