Reply (30 May 2005) As the Honourable Members are aware, the Union has consistently highlighted the importance of high standards of nuclear safety and of a high level of environmental protection throughout the accession negotiations with Bulgaria, as with the other countries of the fifth enlargement. To this end, the Council Working Party on Nuclear Safety was mandated to review the safety of nuclear installations in these countries, to make recommendations and to monitor their implementation. Accession negotiations with Bulgaria were formally concluded last year. In the accession negotiations on the Energy chapter, Bulgaria committed itself to close units 1 and 2 of the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant before the year 2003 and has honoured this commitment by shutting down these units at the end of 2002. As for units 3 and 4, Bulgaria has confirmed its commitment to shut them down for decommissioning in 2006. This commitment will be reflected in the Accession Treaty for Bulgaria and Romania to be signed at the end of April, which will also include the agreed modalities for implementing the further EU financial assistance to Bulgaria in support of the closure of units 1 to 4. In support of the decommissioning effort, within the framework of the accession negotiations, EUR 140 million were agreed for the remaining years until accession in addition to the EUR 200 million assistance under a Special Phare programme, plus an additional EUR 210 million to be committed in equal tranches of EUR 70 million for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009. This brings the total contribution of the EU up to EUR 550 million for the period 2000-2009. The funds are largely managed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development through the Kozloduy International Decommissioning Support Fund, to which other donors also contribute. Bulgaria has continued to implement the recommendations contained in the June 2001 Council Report on Nuclear Safety in the context of Enlargement and the subsequent Peer Review Status Report of June 2002, which also give due respect to closure commitments. The subsequent Peer Review Report on Nuclear Safety in Bulgaria of March 2004 concluded that many of the recommendations had already been implemented, that those remaining were in progress according to established schedules, and that the planned measures which had yet to be implemented seemed appropriate and achievable in terms of human and financial resources. The Council expects that closure commitments will be fulfilled.