with the complaints. By contrast, Mr STRACHAN (H4) points out that " The FSA does not ... impose its conduct of business rules on EEA branches of UK institutions doing business with policyholders where the branch is located. Consistent with the Third Life Directive, it falls to the regulator of those branches – the host regulator in this case – to apply its own rules ". The committee also received submissions by a German citizen who had complained to the FSA about UK financial service providers other than Equitable Life, offering services via branches in EU Member States (see WE-FILE 21 by Mr KREGE). He reported similar experiences in that both the FSA and host Member State authorities refused to deal with his complaints. Irish policyholders also wrote to the UK financial regulator, expressing concern and demanding redress after the crisis had begun to unfold. The FSA made available its correspondence with Irish policyholders in WE-CONF 20. The FSA typically responded by providing general information about issues such as the House of Lords judgement, the prospect of a sale of part of the Equitable to Halifax and the Compromise Scheme. It pointed out that ELAS remained solvent and that the FSA would " continue to monitor operations of Equitable ". In some instances, the FSA recommended to policyholders " that [they] do not make any hasty decisions " and pointed out that " surrendering or transferring with-profits policies at points other than on contractual dates may result in policy values being reduced " (WE-CONF 20). In response to policyholders who demanded redress, the FSA stressed that there is " no basis on which we could or should offer compensation ". It also advised one policyholder that " host States have powers and responsibilities in relation to business carried out under their jurisdiction, and it may be that the Irish authorities have an interest in certain of the matters in which you might be interested " (WE-CONF 20). From WE-FILE 33 it appears that a number of Irish policyholders were advised by the FSA to complain to the UK FOS However, from the evidence received by the committee is appears that - with (at least) one exception - complaints by Irish policyholders were not dealt with by the FOS (see below). . In H8, Commissioner McCREEVY drew the following conclusions with regard to the treatment and processing of cross-border complaints by national regulators: " One disturbing aspect to emerge from the Equitable affair is the treatment of complaints to the national authorities. Complainants have been sent back and forth between the home state authority, responsible for financial supervision, and the host authority of the branch, responsible for the conduct of business rules. This is unacceptable in our single market. We have already taken this up with the regulators meeting in the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee. The supervisors meeting in the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors have announced that they are going to review the rules and procedures to be followed by supervisors in cross-border activity and plan to