Answer given by Mr Mandelson on behalf of the Commission (23 March 2005) The Commission is aware of the problem of counterfeiting and copying in China and shares the view that it severely affects European industry. The Commission is strongly committed to the fight against misappropriation of European innovations and creations. On 10 November 2004 the Commission adopted a Strategy for the Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights in third countries. The different actions aimed at reducing the level of intellectual property rights violations taking place beyond the EU borders range from technical cooperation, assistance and raising awareness of users, to bilateral and multilateral monitoring and the threat of sanctions. The Commission holds regular talks with the Chinese authorities to improve the efficiency of intellectual property rights enforcement at all levels (in particular by pushing for more coordination between the governmental / provincial levels). The Member of the Commission responsible for Trade specifically raised the issue of Intellectual Property (IP) in his meeting with Chinese Minister of Commerce Bo Xilai in the margins of the EU-China Summit (The Hague, 8 and 9 December 2004) and again during his recent visit to China. On this occasion, Vice-Premier Wu Yi agreed on the setting up of an IP Working Group with the industry. The Commission has put in place a structured Dialogue with China on Intellectual Property which held its first meeting on 21 and 22 October 2004 in Beijing. The EU-Japan Initiative for the Enforcement of Intellectual Property Rights in Asia, which has a particular focus on China, is already producing results. The first event organised in this framework dealt with a subject relevant to the taps and fittings industry, namely industrial designs. The ‘China-EU-Japan Intellectual Property Seminar on Design Protection and Unfair Commercial Practices’ took place in Beijing, on 18 and 19 October 2004. A Customs co-operation agreement with China was signed in December 2004, which is one of the tools used to fight against counterfeiting and piracy. China has already made important progress in the field of Intellectual Property legislation. Useful procedures are already available to protect innovation and creation, both within the EU and in China. The Chinese authorities have recently expressed a high-level commitment (notably from Vice-Premier Wu Yi) to take action towards better Intellectual Property Rights enforcement. These include a campaign to raise awareness on counterfeiting and piracy which was was launched in September 2004; the recently adopted ‘Judicial Interpretations on criminal sanctions of counterfeiting and piracy’, which entered into force on 22 December 2004 and lowered the thresholds of criminal prosecution in this field; a revision of Anti-Unfair Competition Law is currently under way and is expected to clarify and strengthen measures against the types of practices that the Honourable Member refers to (for instance copying of packaging). The change in Chinese customs legislation enacted in 2003 (export controls) are producing their first results. While the Commission will review with the utmost attention the concerns of European industry, it is important to underline that the first stage in any action is to ensure that European Industry uses all