top countries where journalists have been murdered, G. whereas investigations into these murders have been insufficient and in most cases the killers have never been revealed, H. whereas serious public concern has been expressed both in the international arena and in Russia itself about the growing restrictions on press freedom and freedom of speech, I. whereas freedom of the media, effective protection of independent journalists and full support for the work of human rights organisations are an essential element in the democratic development of a country, 1. Pays tribute to the work and merits of Anna Politkovskaya, a highly respected investigative reporter known as the symbol of honest journalism in Russia, who was awarded many prizes, among others the Olaf Palme Prize, and who courageously stood up in defence of human life and dignity and who exposed and objectively reported on various forms of crimes against humanity, especially in Chechnya; 2. Expresses its sincere condolences to the family of Anna Politkovskaya and to her friends and colleagues in journalism and the human rights movement; 3. Condemns in the strongest terms the murder of Anna Politkovskaya and calls on the Russian authorities to conduct an independent and efficient investigation to find and punish those responsible for this cowardly crime; calls on the EU and the Council of Europe to monitor these investigations closely; 4. Voices its deep concern over the increasing intimidation, harassment and murder of independent journalists and of other persons critical of the current government, and reminds the Russian Government that a continuation of this tendency will negatively affect Russia's overall reputation; 5. Calls on the Russian authorities to fight actively against intimidation of independent journalists and human rights activists and to give full protection to independent journalists who expose serious cases of injustice in their country and to human rights organisations and their representatives who defend the victims of human rights violations; 6. Calls on the Commission and the EU Member States to take a principled and consequent stand in the negotiations on a new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with the Russian Federation, insisting on the safeguarding of freedom of the press and respect for independent journalism in accordance with European standards; 7. Urges the Council, in this context, to give serious thought to the future of relations with the Russian Federation, debating the subject with the European Parliament and civil society with a view to placing democracy, human rights and freedom of expression at the core of any future agreement and instituting a clear mechanism to monitor the implementation of all the clauses of such an agreement; 8. Calls for the EU-Russia Human Rights Dialogue to be stepped up so as to make it more effective and result-oriented, while fully involving the European Parliament at all levels, with a view to strengthening this element in the new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement due to be negotiated soon; 9. Expresses its deep concern at the fact that under the new legislation on civil society organisations more than 90 non-governmental organisations have been forced to cease their operations in Russia; urges the