WRITTEN QUESTION E-4789/09 by Kriton Arsenis (S-D) to the Commission (7 October 2009) Subject: Waste from greenhouses in southern Crete The use of greenhouse units in conventional farming is a major economic activity in many areas of Crete. However, it is an activity that requires particular environmental management. In parts of southern Crete, mainly in Ierapetra in the prefecture of Lasithi, on the plain of Messara in the prefecture of Heraklion, and in the wider area of Falasarna in the prefecture of Chania, which is included in the Natura 2000 network, uncontrolled dumping of waste and effluent from greenhouses has been observed; most of this waste is plastic and consequently toxic and dangerous to health, food chains and the environment in general. Often this waste is not collected and dealt with in accordance with Community law. Plastics, which as a rule are replaced each growing season, amount to hundreds of tonnes each year. This waste is managed in a piecemeal fashion by a private initiative which sends some of it for recycling. Much of it, however, is buried in illegal landfill sites or burned together with plant waste, releasing dioxins into the atmosphere. Packaging from pesticides or fertilisers impregnated with toxic substances which leach into and pollute the ground is usually stored together with the plastics in waste heaps or dumps; there is no organised plan to dispose of it. This specific waste falls into the category of solid waste under Article 1 Paragraph 1 of Directive 2006/12/EC OJ L 114, 27.4.2006, p. 9. . In view of the recent ECJ judgment against Greece in Case C‑286/08, can the Commission provide the following information? 1. Does the national hazardous waste management scheme which the Greek Government notified to the Commission include this specific type of waste? 2. Should the Greek Government implement special horizontal measures for the management of waste from greenhouses in accordance with Community law? 3. How much time does the Commission intend to allow Greece to comply with the above Court judgment?