circuit containing 300kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases shall install leakage detection systems to monitor the areas where leakage is likely . 7 . Owners and operators of stationary refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump equipment and fire protection systems containing 3kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases shall maintain records on the quantity and type of fluorinated greenhouse gases installed, any quantities added and the quantity recovered during maintenance and servicing. The records shall be made available on request to the competent authority and to the Commission. 8. Leaks shall be identified and repaired as soon as practicable by a duly certified person. 9. Entities that install, distribute or maintain fire protection systems shall register with the relevant competent authority. Article 5 Recovery 1. Fluorinated greenhouse gases contained in the following types of equipment shall be recovered for recycling, reclamation or destruction: a) the cooling circuits of refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump equipment; b) equipment containing solvents; c) fire protection systems and fire extinguishers ; and d) high voltage switch gear. Recovery shall take place during the servicing and maintenance of that equipment and during the final disposal thereof. 2. Unused fluorinated greenhouse gases contained in refillable containers shall be recovered for recycling, reclamation or destruction. 3. Fluorinated greenhouse gases contained in other products and equipment shall be recovered, to the extent that it is technically feasible and cost-effective for recycling, reclamation or destruction. 4. Member States shall ensure that a publicly accessible electronic register of accredited companies/certified personnel is established. Article 6 Training and certification programmes 1. Member States shall establish training and certification /accreditation programmes for the personnel /servicing company handling fluorinated greenhouse gases including those involved in putting into service, servicing and maintenance as well as the recovery and inspection activities provided for in Article 4(2) to (7) and Article 5, based on a set of criteria that guarantee professional standards or bring already existing schemes into line with the requirements of this Regulation . The owner of the equipment/system shall be responsible for ensuring that the personnel/servicing company involved has the required certification/accreditation. Member States shall designate the competent authorities responsible for delivering mandatory certification/accreditation to companies and personnel in the industrial sectors concerned and for monitoring proper implementation of the certification/accreditation scheme as well as continuing compliance with the required competence and qualifications. The certification/accreditation applies to: – putting into service, – responsible servicing, – maintenance, – recovery and inspection activities as provided for in Articles 4 and 5. 2. Certification/accreditation programmes shall ensure that the personnel/servicing company involved in carrying out the activities provided for in Articles 4 and 5 have obtained a competence in applicable regulations and standards as well as competence in handling safely the type and size of equipment that they will be handling in their profession. 3. If a Member State considers that the set of criteria for professional qualifications which attest to a sufficient level of competence for the pursuit of putting into service, servicing, maintenance as well as the recovery and inspection activities as provided for in Articles 4 and 5,