considered the draft opinion at its meeting of 6 November 2001. At the latter meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Terence Wynn, chairman; Reimer Böge, vice-chairman; Catherine Guy-Quint, draftsman; Paulo Casaca, Carlos Costa Neves, Den Dover, Salvador Garriga Polledo, Neena Gill, Jutta D. Haug, Anne Elisabet Jensen, Juan Andrés Naranjo Escobar and Ralf Walter. SHORT JUSTIFICATION The budgetary issues raised by the White Paper The draftsman's main criticism concerning the principles underpinning the White Paper is that the resources made available to the Union do not show the necessary degree of ambition. In her view, European governance is impossible unless a system of own resources approved directly by the budgetary authority is introduced and the budgetary procedures governing the process of making available the resources that the Union provides for the benefit of citizens through its programmes are simplified. It must also be said that budgetary decisions are implemented in a way that does not give them a sufficiently high profile to make the general public aware of the Community added value provided. The draftsman will confine her remarks strictly to those measures which have implications for the EP's budgetary powers or on which the Committee on Budgets has expressed a view in the past, namely: ∙ communicating more actively with the general public on European issues: over recent years the Committee on Budgets has made use of various budgetary instruments - particularly the placing of appropriations in the reserve - in an attempt to develop an integrated information policy based on synergies and closer interinstitutional cooperation (joint drafting committees, joint Web sites, sharing of premises by Parliament and Commission external offices, setting up of a interinstitutional working party). In its capacity as the Union's executive body, the Commission is responsible for conducting a common, decentralised public information policy and for getting the best possible value for money from the € 86 million which the budgetary authority makes available to it. The draftsman considers that these measures have already produced encouraging results and should be continued; ∙ regional and local authority staff exchanges: the Committee on Budgets has consistently encouraged the Commission to step up such exchanges on condition that they are cofinanced, the a geographical balance is respected and that they the involve the exchange of officials from national, regional or local authorities and Community officials (from all institutions); ∙ simplification of Community legislation: with a view to improving quality and efficiency, the White Paper provides for greater use being made of regulations, which speed up the harmonisation process because they do not need to be transposed into national law, and of framework directives, which offer greater flexibility as to their implementation. The White Paper also provides for greater use being made of 'co-regulation', which combines binding legislative or regulatory action with practical action taken by the actors concerned. The draftsman would emphasise that, having gradually taken on the role of co-legislator with each new treaty, the EP is certainly not prepared to restrict its codecision powers. Legislation based on regulations (which are