of the parties as a means to protect the general good. Notwithstanding this approach, the UK does include a large number of provisions aimed at protecting the general good. These are included in Part III of the ICA 1982 on conduct of insurance business including provisions limiting the form and content of insurance advertising and provisions regulating the type of information that insurance companies or intermediaries must provide to policyholders before they enter into an insurance contract. Link to the ELAS case The issue here is whether the regulators in the UK, Ireland, Germany and other countries did not fulfil their legal duty to uphold the general good by preventing ELAS from mis-selling its policies. As the issue of home/host responsibilities is mainly one of implementation and concerns the relation between the UK regulators and those from other Member States, it is preferable to refer to Part III on Regulatory Action and Part IV on Redress issues. Obviously, in order to pursue this line of investigation, it is necessary first to prove whether mis-selling did indeed take place, in other words, whether there were any circumstances contrary to the general good under which ELAS policies were sold. In terms of how conduct of business rules were managed in the UK, Mr. LAKE gives some insight in H1 that the policyholder information required by the 3LD came under the control of the conduct of business regulator, which was separate from the prudential regulator at the time in the UK, and that this legal division of responsibilities between business and prudential was prejudicial to ELAS policyholders. However, David STRACHAN from the FSA refutes this claim in H4, saying that " the Third Life Directive has been implemented in a way that has ensured clarity as to the respective responsibilities of the home and host regulators [...] This avoids an otherwise confusing situation in which policyholders would be subject to different conduct of business protections". Fundamentally, policyholders have been making two types of allegations against ELAS: § mis-selling, by knowingly misrepresenting facts about the company's financial position, especially in relation to the GAR risks; § omission (possibly based on deceit), by failing to draw attention to the GAR risks, when that risk was a matter to be disclosed to existing and prospective policyholders. There are several pieces of evidence that point to this, viz.: - WE 7 NASSIM - WE 51, 52 - WE 53 SEYMOUR - WE 69 JOSEPHS - WE 72, WE 81 DEPPE - H5 LLOYD - H7 KWANTES - H8 BAIN - WE-Conf 2 Other allegations include: § Allegations of 'churning' policyholders' contracts § Claims of communication failure between UK regulators § Issues on communications between UK and foreign regulators § Claims of misleading advertising on the German and Irish market. For in-depth detail, see Part III on Regulatory Action and Part IV on Redress issues. Article 31 - Information for policyholders (Article 36 of CD) and Annex II (Annex III of CD) Summary of objectives This article states that the information listed in Annex II of the Directive must be