regular impact assessments and the Committee on Development of the European Parliament, in view of its competences, is ideally qualified for this task, Tourism as a factor in economic growth B. whereas tourism is one of the fundamental aspects of any consequent developing policy to be implemented in developing countries, C. whereas infrastructure projects in the areas of communications, energy, new communication technologies or health and hygiene are essential to boost tourism in developing countries, D. whereas it is fundamental that such projects should benefit both local communities and the tourist industry, E. whereas forms of tourism seeking to guarantee fair payment for local workers and entrepreneurs merit particular attention from the authorities, especially in the case of 'fair tourism', F. whereas the World Tourism Organization's project 'Eliminating Poverty through Sustainable Tourism' contributes to the Millennium Development Goal of poverty reduction, seeking to create jobs for those living on less than one dollar a day, G. having regard to the negotiations under way for the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) which will, as from 1 January 2008, replace the unilateral preferential trade regime for commercial relations between the ACP countries and the EU, H. whereas the transverse nature of the tourist industry is evident and, despite the absence of a common tourism policy, the existing tourism unit at the Commission's DG Enterprise and Industry is clearly too small, Tourism as a factor in environmental protection and heritage conservation I. whereas tourism can only develop if it respects natural and cultural conditions and the traditions of the local communications where it evolves, J. whereas tourism must not be seen as something hostile to the environment but as, rather, the environment's ally, since its profitability is conditional on the preservation of the environment and the heritage, K. whereas special attention needs to be paid by the authorities to environmentally-friendly forms of tourism such as ecotourism, rural tourism and 'solidarity tourism', L. whereas tourism is sustained by the conservation and improvement of the local heritage, natural and cultural, material and non-material, and of historic buildings, M. whereas the safety of tourists and tourist facilities and sites requires special attention on the part of the authorities, N. whereas it is legitimate for governments, after consulting representative tourist sector organisations, to lay down strict rules for visitors to very popular sites, O. whereas it is necessary to reconcile energy practices with transport policies, with a view to protecting the environment and complying with the targets of the Kyoto Protocol aimed at sustainable development, P. whereas the concept of limiting tourist numbers in small island states, mountain areas and coastal areas affected by overwhelming numbers of tourists needs to be integrated and accepted by the national authorities concerned, Tourism as a factor in democracy and political equilibrium Q. whereas the development of tourism can be a factor in the fight against totalitarianism, dictatorships and over-centralised power, R. whereas tourism is associated in some countries with violations of human rights such as child labour, prostitution and the sexual exploitation of children, S. whereas global terrorism targeted at democracy and its