2. The committee shall make a proposal for a reasoned decision which recommends the adoption or rejection of the request for the waiver of immunity or for the defence of immunity and privileges. 3. The committee may ask the authority concerned to provide any information or explanation which the committee deems necessary in order for it to form an opinion on whether immunity should be waived or defended. The Member concerned shall be given an opportunity to be heard, may present any documents or other written evidence deemed by that Member to be relevant and may be represented by another Member. (...) 7. The committee may offer a reasoned opinion as to the competence of the authority in question and the admissibility of the request, but shall not, under any circumstances, pronounce on the guilt or otherwise of the Member nor on whether or not the opinions or acts attributed to him or her justify prosecution, even if, in considering the request, it acquires detailed knowledge of the facts of the case. (...) ’ (b) National law The Constitution of the Republic of Lithuania (Adopted by citizens of the Republic of Lithuania in the Referendum of 25 October 1992, came into force on 2 November 1992) ‘ Article 62 The person of a Member of the Seimas shall be inviolable. A Member of the Seimas may not be held criminally liable, arrested, nor may his freedom be otherwise restricted without the consent of the Seimas. A Member of the Seimas may not be persecuted for his voting or his speeches at the Seimas. However, he may be held liable according to the general procedure for personal insult or slander. ’ S tatute S eimas of the R epublic of L ithuania ( 17 February 1994 No I-399 ) (As last amended on 23 April 2009 - No XI-228) ( English Version of Updated Legal Document of 04.23.2009 ) ‘ Article 22. Immunity of a Seimas Member 1. The person of a Seimas Member shall be inviolable. 2. A Seimas Member may not be persecuted for his voting or speeches in the Seimas, i.e. at the sittings of the Seimas, Seimas committees, commissions and parliamentary groups, however, he may, for personal insult or slander, be held liable in accordance with the general procedure. 3. Criminal proceedings may not be instituted against a Seimas Member, he may not be arrested, and may not be subjected to any other restrictions of personal freedom without the consent of the Seimas, except in cases when he is caught in the act of committing a crime (in flagrante delicto). In such cases the Prosecutor General must immediately notify the Seimas thereof. ’ Lithuanian Criminal Code: Article 24. Complicity and Types of Accomplices 1. Complicity shall be the intentional joint participation in the commission of a criminal act of two or more conspiring legally capable persons who have attained the age specified in Article 13 of this Code. 2. Accomplices in a criminal act shall include a perpetrator, an organiser, an abettor and an accessory. 3. A perpetrator shall