on the agenda) . - A joint debate on two reports by Jean-Paul Gauzès - on two agreements between the EC and San Marino (ECON, A6-0039/2004 ) and Monaco (ECON, A6-0042/2004 ) respectively, concerning the taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments - had been added to the end of Wednesday's agenda . The following spoke: Daniel Marc Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, who objected to the removal of the statements on the EU-Russia Summit from the agenda and requested that Parliament take a roll-call vote on the matter. Parliament rejected the proposal to remove the item from the agenda by roll-call vote (Verts/ALE) (104 for, 130 against, 22 abstentions). The item thus remained on the agenda. Corrections to votes : for: Zsolt László Becsey , Mario Borghezio , Antonis Samaras , Alexander Stubb against: Véronique De Keyser , David Martin , Borut Pahor - The President announced that Nigel Farage had written to him to ask that, under Rule 132, the oral questions on football in the EU (Item 55 of the agenda) be replaced by an oral question to the Commission on the approval of the new Commission. Although the oral question had been tabled after the deadline, the President felt that, under the circumstances, the request should nevertheless be addressed. The following spoke: Nigel Farage , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group , to move the request. The following spoke on the request: Maciej Marian Giertych and Hannes Swoboda , the latter suggesting that, after the agenda had been established, the House move straight to the statements on the situation in Ukraine. Parliament rejected Nigel Farage 's request. Thursday No changes The President established that there were no objections to the proposed changes. The agenda was thus established. ° ° ° ° In line with Hannes Swoboda 's suggestion, the President decided to move straight to the debate on the situation in Ukraine, before taking the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. 10 Situation in Ukraine (debate) Council and Commission statements: Situation in Ukraine Atzo Nicolaï (President-in-Office of the Council) and Benita Ferrero-Waldner (Member of the Commission) made the statements. The following spoke: Jacek Emil Saryusz-Wolski , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Martin Schulz , on behalf of the PSE Group, Bronisław Geremek , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Rebecca Harms , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Francis Wurtz , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, and Filip Adwent , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group . IN THE CHAIR: Ingo FRIEDRICH Vice-President The following spoke: Michał Tomasz Kamiński , on behalf of the UEN Group, Ryszard Czarnecki , Non-attached Member, Elmar Brok , Jan Marinus Wiersma , Cecilia Malmström , Hélène Flautre , Helmuth Markov , Bastiaan Belder , Guntars Krasts , Alessandro Battilocchio , Charles Tannock , Toomas Hendrik Ilves , Grażyna Staniszewska , Rolandas Pavilionis , Jerzy Buzek , Giovanni Claudio Fava , Paavo Väyrynen , Tunne Kelam , John Attard-Montalto , Giulietto Chiesa , Armin Laschet , Panagiotis Beglitis , Jelko Kacin , Bogdan Klich