Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (22 May 2008) The information provided below concerns contract staff (within the meaning of Article 3a, as well as Article 3b of the Conditions of employment of other servants of the European Communities — CEOS) working in the Commission only. The Commission cannot give any information on the situation in other institutions. With regard to Council Directive 1999/70/EC Council Directive 1999/70/EC of 28 June 1999 concerning the framework agreement on fixed-term work concluded by ETUC, UNICE and CEEP, OJ L 175, 10.7.1999. , the Commission would like to say the following: Council Directive 1999/70/EC enshrines in EC law a framework agreement between the European social partners on fixed term work, with the objective of establishing a framework to prevent abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term employment contracts or relationships. Clause 5(1) of the framework agreement obliges Member States, where there are no equivalent legal measures to prevent abuse, to introduce one or more of the following measures to prevent abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term contracts: — objective reasons justifying the renewal of such contracts and relationships; — the maximum total duration of fixed term contracts or relationships; — the number of renewals of such contracts or relationships. The rules governing the employment of staff in the European institutions are laid down in the Staff Regulations, a Council Regulation which was discussed with Staff Representatives before being adopted. All European institutions are thus bound to respect these provisions. The Staff Regulations allow the European institutions to recruit three main types of staff: permanent officials, temporary agents and contract agents. Temporary agents and permanent officials occupy a post in the establishment plan. There is no limit to the level of responsibility which permanent officials and temporary agents can exercise. The situation for contract agents is different: they do not occupy a post in the establishment plan, and they must work under the supervision of a permanent official or temporary agent. There are two distinct categories of contract agents: — One category of contract agent (Article 3a) was created to perform tasks which are non-core and which do not necessarily need to be performed by an official. Such contract agents can be offered permanent contracts so their tasks can be considered as permanent in nature. The spirit of the 1999/70/EC Directive is followed for such staff as they are generally offered a first contract for a fixed-term, an extension for a fixed-term and a third contract for an indefinite period. In some cases, a permanent contract can be offered directly upon recruitment. These contract agents are working for the Commission around the world (mainly in Commission delegations, representations, and the administrative offices in Brussels and Luxembourg). — A second category of contract agents (Article 3b) exists to allow the institutions to continue to function when officials are unavailable (for example staff on maternity, parental or unpaid leave on personal grounds), and to carry out tasks on posts outside of the establishment plan. They replace persons formerly employed as members of