after five years. MEPs also amended the Commission proposal so as to ensure better protection of personal data as well as professional and commercial secrecy. With a few exceptions, all information communicated will thus be confidential, including information which, if disclosed, would for example undermine the commercial interests (including intellectual property), court proceedings etc. This is valid, of course, unless its disclosure is necessary to end or prohibit an intra-Community infringement. Where cooperation between Member States is concerned, Parliament voted in favour of enhanced co-operation between Member States in the field of consumer protection. The Commission proposal was thus amended so as to say that in cooperation with the Commission, Member States may carry out common activities concerning the training of consumer protection enforcement officials, the development of information and communication tools, etc. They were similarly urged to develop a common framework for the classification of consumer complaints. Press enquiries: Miriam Orieskova (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74864 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 31054 & Tanja Rudolf (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74897 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 31053 e-mail : lega-press@europarl.eu.int Cross-border protection against unfair commercial practices Fiorella GHILARDOTTI (PES, I) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the Internal Market and amending Directives 84/450/EEC, 97/7/EC and 98/27/EC (the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive) ( COM(2003) 356 – C5-0288/2003 – 2003/0134(COD)) Doc.: A5-0188/2004 Procedure : Codecision (1st reading) Debate : 19.04.2004 Vote: 20.04.2004 Vote The House called for a number of changes to a draft directive on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices when it adopted a first-reading report drafted by Fiorella GHILARDOTTI (PES, I). The aim of the directive is to lay down standard EU-wide criteria for determining whether a commercial practice is unfair, although without imposing any positive obligations on traders to show that they are trading fairly. Standardisation is needed to tackle internal market barriers caused by differing national legislation and thereby boost consumer confidence. The House sought to further define the scope of the Commission proposal on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices. Whereas the Commission proposal stated that the directive would apply to unfair commercial practices before and after a commercial transaction in relation to any product, the Parliament amended the proposal to say that it shall apply "to consumers transactional decisions even where these decisions do not result in a contract between the consumer and a trader". Turning to misleading commercial practices, the House voted in favour of including a number of new definitions of those, currently absent from the Commission proposal. Parliament's view of misleading commercial practices includes the use of artificially high reference prices as the basis to grant discounts thereby giving consumers the false impression of a price advantage; promoting a product similar to that made by a particular manufacturer in a way that implies the product was made by the same manufacturer; supplying goods or services to consumers who have not requested them, unless it is made clear that they are free; advertising products in such a way as to disguise the commercial intent of the communication. Similarly the House felt that "advertorials" (articles