Commission to maintain the functioning of the framework, including the implementation of excessive deficit procedures and the issuing of early warnings, where required ”. His view was that the response of the European economy to external shocks should be to improve flexibility and carry on with the implementation of structural reforms. ”The slow progress in structural reform is one of the key factors currently hampering a recovery in confidence ” . Mr Duisenberg then told MEPS that the ECB Governing Council was at a point where it was reviewing policy and strategy but that this should not be interpreted as a sign of commitment to change. The overall priority would remain ”maintaining price stability over the medium term, i.e. avoiding both inflation and deflation” . The ECB President then defended the Governing Council’s recommendations for the adjustment of voting rights in an enlarged eurozone, possibly encompassing 27 Member States. Although the new ”rotation ” voting system has come in for criticism, especially for its impact on the smaller Member States, Mr Duisenberg supported the recommendation on the grounds that its aim was to take account of the eurozone as a whole, not national economies. As he put it ”it should not be misunderstood as an attempt to reintroduce national elements into decision making”. When asked by several Members what the Bank's monetary strategy would be in the event of war in Iraq, Mr Duisenberg said it was "simply impossible to anticipate" the reaction of the monetary authority. The medium and long-term economic impact - through, among other things, increases in oil prices - would depend mainly on the unforeseeable duration of the conflict - "whether it will be three days, three months or even longer" . To the question of whether the Stability Pact would be one of the first victims of war, Mr Duisenberg said: "I hope not" . He acknowledged that war would be likely to have an impact on government expenditure but suggested a "reordering of priorities in the composition of public expenditure" rather than questioning at this stage the rules governing the Stability Pact. On being asked about the possibility of extending his mandate beyond July 2003, Mr Duisenberg's reply was "nothing is excluded". Replying to a question about the possibility of the ECB introducing a one euro note in response to a request from Italy, Mr Duisenberg said although he was ”neutral” on the issue, a decision would only be taken after a study produced by the Bank. He recognised that prior to the introduction of the euro, national notes of a similar value to one euro were in circulation in countries such as Italy, Greece and Austria. However, he did say that there was no demand for this note in countries such as France and Germany and that the vending machine industry was opposed to it. On the related question of the 500 euro note, he accepted the contention that it was probably largely used by the criminal fraternity but did not think that abolishing it would contribute to improving the fight against organised crime. 17.02.2003