8. Stresses that, in order to effectively halt and reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS, it is essential to target key vulnerable groups with specific measures; 9. Remains deeply concerned by the overall expansion and feminisation of the pandemic and the fact that women now represent 50% of people living with HIV worldwide and 60% of people living with HIV in Africa; 10. Emphasises that sexual and reproductive health rights are crucial to combating HIV/AIDS, and urges the Commission and partner countries to prioritise broad prevention strategies in Country Strategy Papers, including programmes promoting the use of condoms and HIV/AIDS education geared towards young people; 11. Criticises the Commission's poor track record in development fund spending in the healthcare sector; stresses, for example, that in 2003 only 5,2% of the EDF was earmarked for health spending and only 4% in 2002, and deplores the fact that the Commission intends to propose that only 6% of development funds within the new development cooperation instrument be allocated to human and social development, covering not only healthcare, HIV/AIDS, sexual and reproductive health, but all other aspects of social development, including children, education and gender programmes; 12. Calls on the Commission to double its budget for healthcare in developing countries within the Development Cooperation Instrument and to aim for at least 50% of all ODA (Official Development Assistance) to be spent on achieving the Millennium Development Goals; 13. Stresses that the Commission is one of the main donors of the Global Fund, contributing overall € 522 million over the period 2002-2006; calls on the Commission to consider increasing its contribution to the Fund; 14. Recognises the importance of country ownership, calls on developing countries to prioritise health spending in general and combating HIV/AIDS in particular, and calls on the Commission to support commitments made by the developing countries in line with the Abuja commitment to spending at least 15% of their general budget on health, and to provide incentives for partner countries in order to encourage them to prioritise health as a key sector in Country Strategy Papers; 15. Calls on the Commission, when appropriate and subject to strict conditions, to allow for large increases in sectoral budgetary support to health sectors, particularly to retain key health workers in developing countries, and calls for the speeding-up of the recruitment and training of health-care workers at all levels; 16. Urges the promotion, at international, regional, national and local level, of access to HIV/AIDS education, information, voluntary counselling, testing and related services, with full protection of confidentiality and informed consent, and the promotion of a social and legal environment that is supportive of and safe for voluntary disclosure of HIV status; 17. Stresses the importance of local action and the fact that prevention, treatment and care responses need the involvement of local communities; 18. Notes that 1 January 2005 saw the implementation of the WTO's agreement on TRIPS in India, compelling India to recognise product patents on medicines; stresses that newer drugs, and particularly more expensive second-line treatments, must not be produced only by patent holders that could set