EU and applicant countries, which should provide emergency relief for any area affected by a major disaster, be complementary to the efforts of the countries concerned and mobilise between EUR 500 million and one billion on a yearly basis, which however will only be called upon when necessary, 1. Expresses its sympathy concerning the distress and damage caused to the floods' victims in all the affected areas; 2. Urges the Commission to work out a coherent programme for flood risk prevention, based inter alia on the points mentioned in this resolution; 3. Calls on the Member States to adapt their policy and legislation towards reduced and sustainable land use, to maintain existing flood plains in their natural state or to reconstruct former ones, to finance and promote conversion measures for ecosystems in rivers and valleys, to respect landscapes and forests and to protect ecosystems in flood-sensitive areas of rivers and their valleys; 4. Calls upon Member States and the Commission to invest in flood prevention measures as part of the common agricultural and nature protection policies, which support the sustainable use of wetland areas and coastal regions which are endangered by floods and storms; 5. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to revise their plans for modifying certain rivers for large inland navigation infrastructure (e.g. the German project for the Elbe between Magdeburg and Dessau, the TEN priority project for the Danube between Straubing and Vilshofen) and to orient these projects to flood risk prevention and nature protection; 6. Calls on the Member States to clean up their chemical sites and to ensure that they are protected against floods to avoid contamination of the environment; 7. Underlines the need for more action, particularly in the transport and energy sectors, to reduce CO2 emissions by promoting energy-saving and renewable energy sources, and calls on the Commission and the Member States to rapidly agree on EU and national measures to implement the targets agreed in the Kyoto Protocol as a first step to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and to take a pro-active role in future discussions on the second commitment period with a view to adopting a comprehensive action plan with targets that would end human-induced climate change; 8. Calls on the United States of America to join the international community in fighting climate change and to ratify the Kyoto Protocol by the end of 2002; 9. Calls on the Heads of State meeting at the World Summit in Johannesburg to agree on ambitious targets for the introduction of renewable energy sources worldwide; 10. Warmly welcomes the swift response of the Commission to the floods in Austria, Germany and several applicant countries; 11. Agrees with the re-directing of Structural Fund appropriations to flood-related measures within and between regional programmes in the Member States concerned and is prepared to examine as a matter of urgency the possibilities to release the 4% performance reserve for the countries concerned; urges that flood-related destruction of cross-border infrastructure between the Member States and the applicant countries concerned likewise be adequately addressed; 12. Is of the opinion that