judicial authority, it cannot pass judgement on, nor revoke decisions taken by the Courts of law in Member States. Similarly, the European Parliament does not have the power to award compensation to petitioners who have suffered loss as a consequence of incorrect transposition of EU law. In the case of Equitable Life, the European Parliament indeed received a number of petitions, in which it is alleged, among other things, that policyholders have suffered due to the failure of the UK Government to regulate or supervise ELAS in a satisfactory way in accordance with the relevant Community insurance legislation (see WE 14 and WE 15). The committee declared the petitions admissible and asked the European Commission to comment on the various issues raised by the petitioners. The petitioners were furthermore invited to present their case to the committee at its meeting of 13 September 2005. In their address to the committee (WE 44), the authors of petition 0029/2005 asked the committee " to engage the institutions of the Community in obtaining correction and remedy " and " to invite [the Commission] to establish the facts, which would be helpful to investors in recovering their losses ". Petitioners also suggested that the Commission " has grounds to act against the UK Government at the European Court of Justice ". The Commission, however, in its written submission to the Petitions Committee European Commission: Notice to Members of 22 June 2005 concerning petitions 0611/2004 and 0029/2005. , made it clear that it is its role " to make sure that the UK is currently in conformity with the relevant EU legislation " and that it " cannot make any pronouncement on the content and application of the former regulatory regime which has now been replaced ". It summarised this point as follows: " The Commission has consistently maintained, in full conformity with the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice on the role and purpose of infringement proceedings, that the objective of such proceedings under EU law is to establish or restore the compatibility of existing national law with EU law, and not to rule on the possible past incompatibility of a national law which has since been amended or replaced ." European Commission: Notice to Members of 22 June 2005 concerning petitions 0611/2004 and 0029/2005. The Equitable Life petitions eventually led Parliament to set up the present Committee of Inquiry to investigate the issue. Besides petitioning the European Parliament, citizens have the possibility of bringing forward complaints to the Commission, although, in contrast to petitioning, this is not a right granted by the Treaty. In its Communication to the European Parliament and the European Ombudsman on relations with the complainant in respect of infringements of Community law COM(2002) 141 final, Annex. , the Commission notes that " anyone may file a complaint with the Commission free of charge against a Member State about any measure (law, regulation or administrative action) or practice by a Member State which they consider incompatible with a provision or principle of Community law ". Any correspondence which is likely to be