the results to be disseminated . Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 9(2). Article 7 Reports 1. Member States shall forward to Eurostat, on or before the date on which the first quarterly information is forwarded, a report on the methods used in compiling statistical data. Member States shall also forward to Eurostat details of any substantial changes in the methods used to collect the statistical data. 2. Member States shall provide Eurostat with information each year on sample sizes, non-response rates and, in the form of standard error or confidence intervals, the reliability of the main statistical results. 3. By 31 December 2014 and every three years thereafter, the Commission shall submit a report on the implementation of this Regulation to the European Parliament and to the Council. That report shall evaluate in particular the quality of the statistical data transmitted, the data collection methods as well as the administrative burdens on the Member States and on the respondents. The report shall, if appropriate, be accompanied by proposals for modifying the list of variables, taking into account the findings of related projects, in particular those on air pollution emissions caused by the carriage of goods by road. Article 8 Exercise of the delegation 1. The power to adopt the delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article . 2. The power to adopt delegated acts referred to in Article 3(4) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of five years from … * OJ: Please insert the date of the entry into force of this Regulation. . The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three months before the end of each period. 3. The delegation of power referred to in Article 3(4) may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the European Union or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force. 4. As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council. 5. A delegated act adopted pursuant to Article 3(4) shall enter into force only if no objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or the Council within a period of two months of notification of that act to the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission that they will