Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (22 November 2010) During the preparation of the proposal for a Consumer Rights Directive (COM2008/614) the Commission considered extending the scope of the existing consumer protection rules to agreements under which consumers get access to digital content. As a result of a wide public consultation, the Commission decided not to include digital products from the scope of the chapter of the proposal dealing with remedies for faulty goods. The decision was mainly motivated by the specificity of digital content as opposed to tangible goods. Digital content, such as software, has to be updated regularly, is never bug-free and its conformity may depend on how it is used by consumers and its interaction with the computer and other applications. The Commission also considered that there was a need to investigate further to what extent consumers actually suffer detriment as a result of the lack of regulation of digital content at EU level. The Commission is currently managing two studies in relation to digital content. One focuses on gathering evidence of consumer problems. The other looks at how contracts giving consumers access to digital content are regulated at national level, and should suggest policy options for addressing any potential shortcomings. The results of the studies will feed into the Commission's work on possible ways forward in the area of European Contract Law for consumers and businesses. The Commission has recently published the Green Paper on policy options for progress towards a European Contract Law http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2010:0348:FIN:EN:PDF , which sets out a number of policy options and launches a public consultation on them. On the basis of the responses to the Green Paper, the Commission will then decide on the most appropriate course of action, which could include providing consumers with a legal guarantee for digital products. The Commission encourages the Honourable Member to follow closely further developments in this area.