Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (6 April 2011) The EU has been following with concern the case of the group of refugees, including those of Eritrean origin, held hostage on the Egypt-Israeli border. The EU Delegation in Cairo contacted local civil society organisations and liaised with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Regional Representation in Cairo to establish the facts and assess the situation. In coordination with EU Member States, the EU Delegation met with the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to express concerns and urge appropriate follow-up. The issue was discussed again at the EU‑Egypt Association Committee held on 14 December 2010 in Cairo where the EU urged the Egyptian authorities to take the necessary steps. The situation of migrants and refugees in Egypt is an issue of ongoing concern, particularly in the region of Sinai. For this reason, in the framework of the EU's regular dialogue with the Egyptian counterparts, the Commission had repeatedly invited Egypt to develop and improve the quality of the assistance and protection offered to asylum‑seekers and refugees residing or transiting on their territory. The Commission has also invited the Egyptian authorities to ensure that the principle of non-refoulement is observed for all migrants in need of international protection while UNHCR is given full possibility to implement its mandate on the entire territory of Egypt, including in the Sinai region. Some positive developments in this effort should be pointed out: in the spring of 2010 Egypt adopted an Anti-trafficking Law, which for the first time penalizes human trafficking and aims at protecting its victims. The Commission has offered its support to the Egyptian authorities in ensuring efficient implementation of this legal framework. The recent developments in Egypt open the way for a renewed cooperation in areas where progress was difficult in the past. The Commission will encourage the new Egyptian authorities to ensure respect for human rights including the protection of migrants and refugees. As regards the possibility of a humanitarian evacuation of the concerned Eritrean refugees and ensuring that they are taken in by the EU Member States, this is a matter for Member States.