Regulation, its implementing rules or any safeguard health measures applied to products of animal origin, as well as any failure to cooperate with the competent authority shall result in the imposition of the appropriate criminal and/or administrative penalties by the competent national authorities. Infringements of this Regulation, its implementing rules or any safeguard health measures applied to products of animal origin, as well as any failure to cooperate with the competent authority shall result in the imposition of the appropriate criminal and/or administrative penalties by the competent national authorities. The public may be informed about the persons involved and the nature of these infringements by the competent authorities and food agencies of the Member States, in order to foster best hygiene practice throughout the EU . Amendment 9 Article 5, paragraph 3 a (new) The Commission shall draw up a list of categories of possible infringements of this Regulation, its implementing rules, or safeguard measures and shall determine in each instance whether the infringements are punishable by the competent national authorities under criminal or administrative law. Amendment 10 Article 6, paragraph 1 1. Experts from the Commission may, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States, make audits and/or inspections at all stages in the production and marketing of products of animal origin as well on the organisation and functioning of the competent authorities in the Member States, in order to ensure the uniform application of this Regulation, its implementing rules and any safeguard measures pursuant hereto. Commission experts may be accompanied by the competent authority of the Member State and any expert appointed by the Commission for the purpose of an audit and/or inspection. 1. Experts from the Commission may, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States, make audits and/or inspections at all stages in the production and marketing of products of animal origin as well as on the organisation and functioning of the competent authorities in the Member States, in order to ensure the uniform application of this Regulation, its implementing rules and any safeguard measures pursuant hereto. Commission experts may be accompanied by the competent authority of the Member State and any expert appointed by the Commission for the purpose of an audit and/or inspection. The Commission shall have the right to publicise the fact that a Member State is refusing to permit Commission experts to carry out audits and/or inspections and it shall have the right to impose, if necessary, further measures, which may be established in accordance with Article 11, against the Member State concerned . Amendment 11 Article 6, paragraph 4 4. To enable audits and/or inspections to be carried out efficiently, the Member State in whose territory an audit and/or inspection is undertaken shall give all necessary assistance and provide all documentation requested by the Commission experts for the purpose of the audit . 4. Commission experts may, in so far as this is necessary for the uniform application of this Regulation, carry out on-the-spot checks in collaboration with the competent authorities of the Member States. The Member State in