in such circumstances; if an individual case has been re-allocated, the President shall inform the President of Parliament thereof immediately and in writing. 3. If Parliament decides to express lack of confidence in a Member of the Commission, the President of the Commission, having given serious consideration to that decision, shall either request that Member to resign, or explain his or her decisions to Parliament. 4. Where it becomes necessary to arrange for the replacement of a Member of the Commission during his or her term of office pursuant to Article 215 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the President of the Commission shall immediately contact the President of Parliament in order to reach agreement on the manner in which the President of the Commission intends to ensure the presentation of the future Member before Parliament without delay and in full compliance with the prerogatives of the Institutions. Parliament shall ensure that its procedures are conducted with the utmost dispatch, in order to enable the President of the Commission to be informed of Parliament’s position in due time before the Member is called upon to exercise duties as the Commission’s representative. 5. The President of the Commission shall immediately notify Parliament of any decision concerning the allocation of responsibilities to a Member of the Commission. Where the responsibilities of a Member of the Commission are changed substantially, that Member shall appear before the relevant parliamentary committee at Parliament's request. 6. Any changes to the provisions of the Code of Conduct for Members of the Commission relating to conflict of interest or ethical behaviour shall be sent immediately to Parliament. The Commission shall take into account the views expressed by Parliament in that regard. 7. In conformity with Rule 99 of its Rules of Procedure, Parliament shall communicate with the President-designate of the Commission in good time before the opening of the procedures relating to the approval of the new Commission. Parliament shall take into account the remarks expressed by the President-designate. The procedures shall be designed in such a way as to ensure that the whole Commission-designate is assessed in an open, fair and consistent manner. The Members of the Commission-designate shall ensure full disclosure of all relevant information, in conformity with the obligation of independence laid down in Article 213 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. III. CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE AND FLOW OF INFORMATION (i) General provisions 8. The Commission shall keep Parliament fully and promptly informed about its proposals and initiatives in the legislative and budgetary fields. In all fields where Parliament acts in a legislative capacity, or as a branch of the budgetary authority, it shall be informed, on a par with the Council, at every stage of the legislative and budgetary process. 9. In the areas of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the Commission shall take measures to improve the involvement of Parliament in such a way as to take Parliament's views as far as possible into account. 10. The President of the Commission and/or the Vice-President responsible