on the principles of sound financial management and cost-effectiveness; 4. Urges the institutions to increase their efficiency by adopting Activity-Based Budgeting as quickly and wholeheartedly as possible; believes that it is vital that all the institutions follow the Commission in adopting Activity-Based Budgeting; 5. Invites all institutions to further explore the margin for redeployment of staff with a view to optimising the allocation of resources; 6. Reiterates its support for continued interinstitutional cooperation with a view to improving efficiency and cost-effectiveness; welcomes the proposal to establish an Interinstitutional Recruitment Office in order to establish more cost-effective selection and recruitment procedures; 7. Considers that the three institutions (Parliament, Council, Commission) should coordinate where possible through interinstitutional cooperation their approach to translation, interpretation, buildings and libraries, when taking measures to prepare the institutions for enlargement; 8. Considers that the institutions should expand interinstitutional cooperation in the buildings sector, improve the management of new projects and promote efficient use of existing buildings, reach agreement on developing a global property policy, especially with a view to the forthcoming enlargement, and make concrete proposals as regards possible medium and long-term building needs and the financing arrangements to be applied; 9. Deplores the refusal of the Council and the Commission to establish an interinstitutional working group on pensions of staff of the institutions; 10. Notes that the Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors have decided to adopt Parliament's promotion policy, which is more transparent and which is based on merit and performance; calls on the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee to take the conclusions of the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts into account, as they are in the process of redefining their promotion policies; 11. Notes that the Commission has included in its Letter of Amendment No 1 to the preliminary draft budget for the financial year 2001 the proposal for an early retirement scheme for its own staff; is of the opinion that, if the legal basis is adopted, all institutions should have the possibility of adopting an appropriate scheme See Judgment T-154/96 of the Court of Justice of 30 September 1998. ; 12. Wishes to be informed about the level of sick leave of permanent and temporary staff in the institutions; has decided, therefore, to place 10% of the appropriations for auxiliary staff in the reserve, pending the submission of a joint report by the Secretaries-General of the institutions that is based on harmonised parameters, to allow comparability among the institutions; also requests the Secretaries-General to submit a report on the level of and reasons for secondment of officials to other institutions and to bodies outside the EU; Section I - European Parliament 13. Points out that, although expenditure related to the statute for Members, the buildings policy and the consequences of enlargement is excluded from the self-set ceiling of 20% of Heading 5 ("Administrative expenditure”) of the financial perspective, it has decided to remain within that ceiling and thus apply a rigorous budget; 14. Remains convinced that a statute for Members' assistants is urgently needed;