Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (23 March 2011) The Commission is aware of the ‘Eco Index’ concept and of several other similar initiatives that all aim at introducing Life Cycle Management concepts into the different value chains. The Commission already recognised in its communication on Integrated Product Policy COM(2003)302 final. that Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) provides the best framework for assessing the potential environmental impacts of products currently available. In March 2010 the Commission presented the International Reference Life Cycle Data System (ILCD) Handbook. The ILCD handbook was developed by the Institute for Environment and Sustainability in the European Commission Joint Research Centre (JRC), in cooperation with the Environment DG. It is part of the Commission's promotion of sustainable consumption and production patterns. The Handbook is in line with international standards and has been established through a series of extensive consultations. The Handbook provides governments and businesses with a basis for assuring quality and consistency of life cycle data, methods and assessments. The December 2010 Council Conclusions on sustainable materials management and sustainable production and consumption http://www.consilium.europa.eu/uedocs/cms_data/docs/pressdata/en/envir/118646.pdf call for the Commission to develop a common methodology on the quantitative assessment of environmental impacts of products, throughout their life-cycle, in order to support the assessment and labelling of products. The Commission therefore announced such an initiative in the Flagship Communication on Sustainable Industrial Policy COM(2010)614. and the Single Market Act COM(2010)608 final. , aiming at increasing the credibility and consumer confidence in the many existing eco-footprint labels. In order to address these requests, the Comission is now working through DG Environment and the Joint Research Centre on the development of a harmonised methodology for the calculation of the environmental footprint of products (including carbon). This methodology will be developed building on the ILCD Handbook, but also building on the existing relevant experiences in Europe and worldwide, including the Eco Index. The methodology will be tested in a number of field case studies. This methodology for the calculation of the environmental performances of products will be published in 2012, as part of the wider Sustainable Consumption and Production / Sustainable Industrial Policy Action Plan revision.