initial conclusion: although the open method of coordination is undoubtedly a useful instrument, nevertheless its scope should be defined and the relevant procedure established by enshrining it in the Treaty. Care should be taken, therefore, to spell out the principle that the method may not be used as a substitute for more binding forms of Community regulation in order to evade them, without necessarily excluding the possibility of the open method of coordination being used to accompany legislative measures with a view to extending their range. Furthermore, the role of the European Parliament must be clarified and enhanced, as should the role of the national parliaments, the social partners and civil society, and local and regional bodies. Finally, an assessment of the operation and results of applying the open method of coordination in various fields is evidently called for in order to ascertain how effective it really is as a means of achieving coordination. 19 March 2003 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEN’S RIGHTS AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on the analysis of the Open Coordination Method in the fields of employment and social affairs (2002/2223(INI)) Draftsperson: Marie-Hélène Gillig PROCEDURE The Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities appointed Marie-Hélène Gillig draftsperson at its meeting of 26 November 2002. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 19 February 2003 and 18 March 2003. At the latter meeting it adopted the following conclusions by 23 votes to 1, with 0 abstentions. The following were present for the vote: Anna Karamanou (chairperson), Marianne Eriksson (vice-chairperson), Jillian Evans (vice-chairperson), Olga Zrihen Zaari (vice-chairperson) Marie-Hélène Gillig (draftsperson), María Antonia Avilés Perea, Regina Bastos, Ilda Figueiredo (for Armonia Bordes), Fiorella Ghilardotti, Koldo Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, Karin Jöns (for Lissy Gröner), Hans Karlsson, Hedwig Keppelhoff-Wiechert (for Emilia Franziska Müller pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Christa Klaß, Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, Astrid Lulling, Maria Martens, Christa Prets, Olle Schmidt (for Lone Dybkjær), Miet Smet, Patsy Sörensen, Joke Swiebel and Sabine Zissener. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities calls on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. Notes that, given that the Open Coordination Method (OCM) is intended to be applied to a series of areas having direct implications for women, including the European strategy on employment and the policy for combating social exclusion, it is necessary to include the dimension of equal opportunities for men and women and gender mainstreaming at all levels of formalisation of this new policy management instrument; 2. Recognises that the Open Coordination Method is a procedure that is likely to bring about notable progress, but stresses its slowness and its tendency to mask the lack of goodwill on the part of any given Member State towards the objective being pursued. As regards equality of opportunity, which is recognised as an objective of the European Union, takes the view that decisive measures for women belong more to the legislative procedure, and therefore calls on the Commission not to limit itself to the