6 February 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to Oral Question B5‑004/2003 pursuant to Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure by Bob van den Bos and Johan van Hecke on behalf of the ELDR Group on the harmful effects of unexploded ordnance (landmines and cluster munitions) and depleted uranium ammunition European Parliament resolution on the harmful effects of unexploded ordnance (landmines and cluster munitions) and depleted uranium ammunition The European Parliament, A. Having regard to its previous resolutions on cluster munitions and depleted uranium ammunition, and reaffirming in particular the need to establish moratoriums on these types of ammunition pending a total ban, B. having regard to the work of the Group of Governmental Experts (GGE) on Explosive Remnants of War and Anti-Vehicle Mines, which has been discussing and will begin to negotiate in 2003 weapons and weapons systems, including cluster munitions that produce unexploded ordnance, C. having regard to the important progress that the Commission has made in the area of mine clearance support, D. having regard to the ongoing use of anti-personnel landmines and anti-vehicle landmines in many major armed conflicts and to the fact that landmines are mainly used in conflicts in which both states and non-state armed groups are involved, E. recognising that 13 out of 15 EU Member States have signed the Ottawa process to globally ban anti-personnel landmines, and hence do not use these types of weaponry any longer; recognising that NATO has de facto banned the use of anti-personnel mines, F. whereas cluster munitions are widely used in armed conflicts; whereas, in particular, allied forces have used these in their military interventions in the Balkans, in Iraq and in Afghanistan; having regard to their use by the Russian armed forces in Chechnya, G. whereas medical samples from sick civilians near US bombing targets in Afghanistan tested by the Canadian UMRC (Uranium Medical Research Centre) showed 100 times the normal levels of uranium contamination, this contamination taking the form of undepleted uranium, H. whereas these weapons remain in military arsenals and are being actively traded to over 20 countries, I. whereas NATO has not banned these types of weapons from the arsenals of its partners, and they are therefore likely to be used in operations of the NATO Rapid Response Force, J. whereas - whilst acknowledging that international law does not refer specifically to the issue of depleted uranium at present - no publicly visible or credible efforts are being made to ensure that any use of such weapons is not in violation of the Additional Protocol I to the Convention on Conventional Weapons and its relevant articles on deployment, use and effect upon civilians, K. whereas, in addition, states, including EU Member States, are willing to aid in the effort to address this shortfall by providing assistance to those affected by such weapons, including economic assistance such as land clearance and social assistance such as medical support; L. whereas EU citizens, civilian and military members of peacekeeping and peace enforcement operations, have been and will continue to become victims of such weapons, in humanitarian