of the EU, because this has involved (and will involve) new types of reactors and other nuclear installations ; - Energy supply, by contributing to new techniques for a nuclear fuel cycle in line with the principles of sustainable development. . The Joint Research Centre has competent staff and facilities to carry out recognized scientific/technical work . It shall ensure the quality and the appropriate renewal of its infrastructures to keep European research at the forefront of its field. The Joint Research Centre supports the policy of the EU to maintain basic competencies and expertise for the future by giving access to its infrastructures to other researchers and by training young scientists and fostering their mobility and thus sustaining nuclear know-how in Europe . New demand has emerged in particular in the external relations and security related policies. In these cases, in-house and secure information/analyses/systems are needed which cannot always be obtained on the market. Justification The need for the JRC expertise in an enlarged Europe goes far beyond the sole energy supply and the matching of the Kyoto protocol. Global security and a harmonised approach in nuclear safety are as important. Some of the JRC infrastructures are becoming rather old and the JRC will only be able to maintain its essential role in Europe if it has the means to modernize its infrastructures. The JRC should increase its participation to training in nuclear matters in welcoming researchers and young scientists from all over Europe in its laboratories. . Amendment 22 Annex I, subtitle 'Nuclear activities of the Joint Research Centre', subtitle 'Activities', paragraph 1 Nuclear Waste Management and Environmental Impact aiming to understand the nuclear fuel processes from production of energy to waste storage and to develop effective solutions for the management of high level nuclear waste following the two major options (direct storage or partitioning and transmutation); Nuclear Waste Management and Environmental Impact aiming to understand the nuclear fuel processes from production of energy to waste storage and to develop effective solutions for the management of high level nuclear waste following the two major options (direct storage or partitioning and transmutation). In particular, activities will be developed to enhance knowledge and improve the processing or conditioning of long-lived waste and basic research into actinides; Justification Account must be taken of the fact that most Member States have to resort to temporary extended storage of spent fuel, which is highly active long-lived waste. Amendment 23 Annex I, subtitle 'Nuclear activities of the Joint Research Centre', subtitle 'Activities', paragraph 2 Nuclear Safety, in implementing research on existing as well as on new fuel cycles and on reactor safety of both Western and Russian reactor types as well as on new reactor design. In addition the JRC will contribute and co-ordinate the European contribution to the Generation IV International Forum R&D initiative, in which the best research organisations in the world are involved; Nuclear Safety, in research on existing fuel cycles , on reactor safety of both Western and Russian reactor types and to a greater extent, research on new fuel cycles as