in writing, bear the signatures of at least forty Members or are tabled on behalf of a political group or committee, specify the budget heading to which they refer and ensure the maintenance of a balance between revenue and expenditure. Draft amendments shall include all relevant information on the remarks to be entered against the budget heading in question. The same provisions shall apply to proposed modifications. All draft amendments or proposed modifications to the draft budget must be justified in writing. 3. The President shall set the time limit for the tabling of draft amendments and proposed modifications. The President shall set two deadlines for tabling draft amendments and proposed modifications: the first shall be before, and the second after, the adoption of the report by the committee responsible. 4. The committee responsible shall deliver its opinion on the texts submitted before they are discussed in Parliament. Draft amendments and proposed modifications which have been rejected in the committee responsible shall not be put to the vote in Parliament unless this has been requested in writing, before a deadline to be set by the President, by a committee or at least forty Members; this deadline may on no account be less than 24 hours before the start of the vote. 5. Draft amendments to the estimates of Parliament which are similar to those already rejected by Parliament at the time the estimates were drawn up shall be discussed only where the committee responsible has delivered a favourable opinion. 6. Notwithstanding Rule 51(2) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament shall take separate and successive votes on: - each draft amendment and each proposed modification, - each section of the draft budget, - a motion for a resolution concerning the draft budget. However, Rule 155(4) to (8) shall apply. 7. Articles, chapters, titles and sections of the draft budget in respect of which no draft amendments or proposed modifications have been tabled shall be deemed adopted. 8. Draft amendments shall require for adoption the votes of a majority of the component Members of Parliament. Proposed modifications shall require for adoption a majority of the votes cast. 9. If Parliament has adopted draft amendments that would raise the expenditure shown in the draft budget above the maximum rate laid down, the committee responsible shall submit to Parliament a proposal laying down a new maximum rate as provided for in the last subparagraph of Article 78(9) of the ECSC Treaty, Article 272(9) of the EC Treaty and Article 177(9) of the EAEC Treaty. The proposal shall be put to the vote after the various sections of the draft budget have been voted on. Parliament shall act by a majority of its component Members and three fifths of the votes cast. Where the proposal is rejected, the draft budget as a whole shall be referred back to the committee responsible. 10. If Parliament has not amended the draft budget, adopted proposed modifications or adopted a proposal rejecting the draft budget, the President shall declare in Parliament that the budget has been finally adopted. If Parliament has