Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (1 September 2010) According to the Treaty, the primary responsibility for the protection of the public against adverse health effects of electromagnetic fields remains with the Member States. Nevertheless, the Council adopted in 1999, on the basis of a proposal from the Commission, a Recommendation 1999/519/EC OJ L 1999, 30.7.1999 . on the limitation of exposure of the general public to electromagnetic fields (EMF) in order to provide the Member States with a non-binding common framework of basic restrictions and reference levels aimed at ensuring a high level of health protection. The implementation of the recommendation depends on the Member States. In light of the scientific knowledge currently available, the Commission considers that where the guidelines of the recommendation are implemented, an adequate level of health protection against the possible adverse health effects of emissions from masts is ensured. The Commission monitors regularly the development of scientific knowledge concerning the possible health effects of exposure of the public to electromagnetic fields, including from mobile phones and masts, through its independent Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified health Risks (SCENIHR). The SCENIHR delivered its latest opinion on the health effects of EMF in January 2009 (available at http://ec.europa.eu/health/archive/ph_risk/committees/04_scenihr/docs/scenihr_o_022.pdf) The conclusions of SCENIHR do not show a need to modify the basic restrictions and reference levels of Recommendation 1999/519/EC. Nevertheless, the SCENIHR has identified the need for further research in order to fill remaining knowledge gaps that are considered for future calls under the research programme FP7. Furthermore, manufacturers and network operators of antennas have to comply with the Radio and Telecommunications Terminal Equipment (R&TTE) Directive. Harmonised standards which provide presumption of conformity with the essential requirements of RTTE Directive are designed to ensure that the public is not exposed to electromagnetic fields beyond the limits of the Council Recommendation 1999/519/EC.