won by the contractor following a Europe-wide open and transparent public tender. In addition, Article 82 of the EC Treaty prohibits only abuses of dominant position but not the mere fact that a company may enjoy a dominant position on a particular market. (D) As far as the purpose of Article 21.2.1 of the concession contract is concerned, the Commission will request further information from the Greek authorities in order to establish whether this may provide an unjustifiable advantage in breach of the EC law. (E) Regarding the question of the Honourable Member, on whether the level of protection for foreign capital under Law 2687/1953 (Official Gazette A317) is in accordance with Community law, the issue raises no particular concern. According to the Community rules governing the free movement of capital and foreign investment under Article 56 EC, ‘all restrictions on the movement of capital between Member States and between Member States and third countries shall be abolished’. The same prohibition also covers payments made between Member States and between Member States and third countries. It should be noted that the treatment of third country direct investment is also specifically provided for in Article 57(1) EC. In this context, the Treaty modifications which came into effect on 1 January 1994 permit Member States, referred to in paragraph 1 of that Article, to maintain existing national measures in respect of capital movements to or from third countries involving, inter alia , direct investment. In other words, where national legislation restricting the free movement of capital existed in a Member State on 31 December 1993, that Member State is under no obligation to further adapt that national legislation, which may therefore be regarded as compatible with Community legislation. Investments from third countries are in addition guaranteed a level of protection enshrined in the Greek Constitution (Article 107 thereof), bearing an express reference to Legislative Decree 2687/1953.