rejected the request by electronic vote (87 in favour, 105 against, 4 abstentions). Sittings of 28.03.2007 and 29.03.2007 No requests for changes. The order of business was thus established. 16 One-minute speeches on matters of political importance Pursuant to Rule 144, the following Members who wished to draw the attention of Parliament to matters of political importance spoke for one minute: Manolis Mavrommatis , Gary Titley , Pál Schmitt , Claude Turmes , Margarita Starkevičiūtė , Eoin Ryan , Gay Mitchell , Magda Kósáné Kovács , Kinga Gál , Willy Meyer Pleite , Viorica-Pompilia-Georgeta Moisuc , Teresa Riera Madurell , Péter Olajos , Libor Rouček , Ioannis Gklavakis , Gerard Batten , Jim Allister and Mirosław Mariusz Piotrowski . IN THE CHAIR: Rodi KRATSA-TSAGAROPOULOU Vice-President 17 Social services of general interest (debate) Report on social services of general interest in the European Union ( 2006/2134(INI) ) - Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Rapporteur: Joel Hasse Ferreira ( A6-0057/2007 ) Joel Hasse Ferreira introduced the report. Vladimír Špidla (Member of the Commission) spoke. The following spoke: Bernhard Rapkay (draftsman of the opinion of the ECON Committee), Roberto Musacchio (draftsman of the opinion of the ENVI Committee), Luisa Fernanda Rudi Ubeda (draftsman of the opinion of the IMCO Committee), Gabriele Stauner (draftsman of the opinion of the JURI Committee), Edit Bauer (draftsman of the opinion of the FEMM Committee), Iles Braghetto , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Jan Andersson , on behalf of the PSE Group, and Sophia in 't Veld , on behalf of the ALDE Group . IN THE CHAIR: Manuel António dos SANTOS Vice-President The following spoke: Jean Lambert , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Kyriacos Triantaphyllides , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, José Albino Silva Peneda , Anne Van Lancker , Danutė Budreikaitė , Elisabeth Schroedter , Jean Louis Cottigny , Karin Jöns , Harald Ettl , Anne Ferreira , Alexandru Athanasiu , Jean-Claude Martinez and Vladimír Špidla . The debate closed. Vote: Minutes of 14.03.2007, Item 5.6 . 18 Corporate social responsibility (debate) Report on corporate social responsibility: a new partnership ( 2006/2133(INI) ) - Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. Rapporteur: Richard Howitt ( A6-0471/2006 ) Richard Howitt introduced the report. IN THE CHAIR: Adam BIELAN Vice-President The following spoke: Günter Verheugen (Vice-President of the Commission) and Vladimír Špidla (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Gunnar Hökmark (draftsman of the opinion of the ITRE Committee), Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou (draftsman of the opinion of the FEMM Committee), Thomas Mann , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Magda Kósáné Kovács , on behalf of the PSE Group, Siiri Oviir , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Claude Turmes , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Jiří Maštálka , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Roger Helmer , Non-attached Member, José Albino Silva Peneda , Alejandro Cercas , Jean Marie Beaupuy , Jean Lambert , Jacek Protasiewicz , Maria Matsouka , Philip Bushill-Matthews , Joan Calabuig Rull , Gábor Harangozó and Günter Verheugen . The debate closed. Vote: Minutes of 13.03.2007, Item 8.5 . 19 Equality