exercise of discretion by the regulator relating to authorisations for using future profits to meet solvency requirements. Therefore, one of the lines of investigation being pursued is whether the discretion exercised by the Secretary of State based on section 68 of the ICA 1982 played a prominent role in the ELAS affair and whether that discretion itself is compatible with the 3LD. The Directive prescribes that Member States must ensure that competent authorities have sufficient powers and means to carry out their supervisory functions (see Article 10 3LD). The Directive, by contrast, allows the competent authority to waive the application of rules only on a limited number of occasions and subject to stringent conditions but it seems that nowhere in the Directive is the competent authority of a Member State entrusted with such waiver powers as those prescribed by section 68 of the ICA 1982. The investigation must ascertain whether such powers entail the risk of being exercised in a lenient or inconsistent way that might have been beneficial to some companies but not to others, thereby possibly undermining the application of harmonised standards. Moreover, the issue is whether the ELAS scandal would have been avoided, had those powers been constrained. Section 68 of the ICA 1982 Let us look at section 68 more closely. Under section 68 of the Act, the Secretary of State may, upon request or with the consent from an insurer and provided certain conditions are met, waive the application of prudential rules to that particular company. Is this discretion compatible with the 3LD? Section 68 is entitled “Power to modify Part II in relation to particular companies”. The wording of this section accords the Secretary of State generous powers not to apply to particular companies (or apply with modifications) a substantive number of sections of the ICA and regulations made under those sections. According to paragraph (4), the Secretary of State may decide not to apply the following provisions: “…sections 16 to 22, 23(1) and 25 to 36 of this Act, the provisions of regulations made for the purposes of any of those sections and the provisions of any valuation regulations. […]” This broad scope of provisions potentially affects the application of a vast number of prudential regulations, including, amongst other things, regulations on regulatory returns, technical provision requirements and solvency requirements to the Secretary of State’s discretion. The Secretary of State must exercise his discretion not to apply the referred provisions at the request or with the consent of the insurance company concerned and the authorization must take the form of an order. Section 68 goes on to stipulate that the Secretary of State may subject the authorization to specific conditions and may revoke it at any time. No other formalities or standards qualify the exercise by the Secretary of State of the power to decide not to apply relevant provisions to particular insurance companies. The 3LD prescribes that Member States must ensure that competent authorities have sufficient powers and means to carry out their supervisory functions but allows the competent authority to waive the application