Question for written answer E-002263/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Frédérique Ries (ALDE) (28 February 2012) Subject: Japanese whaling practices which contravene the CITES Convention Whaling has been banned since the 1985/1986 season in keeping with the moratorium which was adopted by the International Whaling Commission in 1982 and which has applied to Japan since 1986. However, that country enjoys a derogation from the moratorium under the terms of which it can carry out ‘scientific programmes’ and then market the meat from the captured whales. Japan therefore resumed its annual whaling effort in the Antarctic, under the guise of scientific research, in December 2011. According to information communicated to us, this whaling effort will apparently be financed by a budget earmarked for the reconstruction of the areas affected by the tsunami of 11 March 2011. The Japanese Government has reportedly just made EUR 21.1 million (JPY 2.3 billion) available to whalers to rebuild their fleets which were severely damaged by the 2011 tsunami. Part of this sum would also go towards funding the deployment of escort ships for these fleets in an effort to prevent ‘anti-whaling’ activists from disrupting the hunt in the coming months, a move which has prompted angry reactions from many environmental organisations. These practices obviously contravene the letter and spirit of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), of which Japan has been a member since 1980 and under which many species of whale are protected. Need I remind you that the European Union has enforced the CITES Convention on its territory since 1984 and that it is one of the convention’s most ardent defenders on the international stage? 1. Can the Commission confirm that none of the European funding of approximately EUR 15 million granted as reconstruction assistance following the March 2011 tsunami has been diverted to fund unacceptable whaling practices? 2. What pressure does the Commission intend to exert on Japan at the next bilateral EU‑Japan Summit in order to put a stop to this flagrant violation of CITES by one of the EU’s main trading partners?