of information on matters relating to their respective competence in the field of risk communication. 3. The Commission and the Authority shall ensure appropriate exchange of information on matters relating to their respective competence in the field of risk communication. The Authority shall publish all opinions, including recommendations to risk managers that were either rejected or not followed up in practice. Amendment 152 Article 41 Consumers and other interested parties Consumers, producers and other interested parties The Authority shall develop appropriate contacts with consumer representatives and any other interested parties. The Authority shall develop effective contacts with consumer representatives , producer representatives, processors and any other interested parties. Amendment 153 Article 42, paragraph 1 1. The revenues of the Authority shall consist of a contribution from the Community and, in addition, any fees received by the Authority in payment for the services it provides. 1. The Authority shall be entirely funded from the general budget of the European Communities. Amendment 154 Article 42, paragraphs 5 and 6 5. The Management Board shall, by 31 March at the latest, adopt the draft budget and forward it to the Commission which on that basis shall enter the relevant estimates in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Communities, which it shall put before the Council pursuant to Article 272 of the Treaty. 5. The Management Board shall, by 31 March at the latest, adopt the draft estimates including the provisional establishment plan accompanied by the preliminary work programme and forward it to the Commission which on that basis shall enter the relevant estimates in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Communities, which it shall put before the Council pursuant to Article 272 of the Treaty. 6. The Management Board shall adopt the Authority's budget, adjusting it where necessary to the Community's contribution. 6. After the adoption of the general budget by the budgetary authority, the Management Board shall adopt the Authority's final budget and the work programme , adjusting them where necessary to the Community contribution. It shall forward them without delay to the Commission and the budgetary authority. 6a. Any modification to the budget, including the establishment plan, shall follow the procedure referred to in paragraph 5. 6b. The establishment plan of the Authority is authorised by the general budget of the European Communities. Amendment 155 Article 43, paragraph 4 4. The European Parliament, acting on a recommendation from the Management Board , shall give discharge to the Authority's Executive Director in respect of the implementation of the budget. 4. The European Parliament, acting on a recommendation from the Council , shall give discharge to the Authority's Management Board in respect of the implementation of the budget. Amendment 156 Article 43 a (new) Article 43a Combating fraud 1. In order to combat fraud, corruption and other unlawful activities the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)( 1 ) shall apply without restriction. 2. The Authority shall accede to the Interinstitutional