associate editor of the \"American Journal of Science\"; editor-in-chief of the \"Scientific Memoir Series\"; and editor of J. von Fraunhofer's memoirs on \"Prismatic and Diffractive Spectra\" (1898)." ] ], [ "George J. Mead", [ "George Jackson Mead (December 27, 1891 Everett, Massachusetts – January 20, 1949 Hartford, Connecticut) was an American aircraft engineer.", " He is best known as one of the chief founding team members, together with Frederick Rentschler, of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft.", " Mead and Rentschler left Wright Aeronautical with the plan to start their own aviation-related business; they founded Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in July 1925.", " Their first project was to build a new, large, air-cooled, radial aircraft engine of Mead's design, which soon came to be named the Wasp.", " The first Wasp model was the R-1340, and a large series of Wasp models and Hornet models followed.", " Mead, as Vice President of Engineering, was the head of engineering for Pratt & Whitney from 1925 to 1935.", " He later left Pratt & Whitney and its parent United Aircraft.", " He served as the president of the U.S. National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA), and he served as head of the aeronautical section of the National Defense Advisory Commission during World War II, as a manager in the U.S. government's war materiel production effort." ] ], [ "Christopher C. Kraft Jr.", [ "Christopher Columbus \"Chris\" Kraft Jr. (born February 28, 1924) is an American aerospace engineer and retired NASA engineer and manager who was instrumental in establishing the agency's Mission Control operation.", " Following his graduation from Virginia Tech in 1944, Kraft was hired by the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA), the predecessor organization to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).", " He worked for over a decade in aeronautical research before being asked in 1958 to join the Space Task Group, a small team entrusted with the responsibility of putting America's first man in space.", " Assigned to the flight operations division, Kraft became NASA's first flight director.", " He was on duty during such historic missions as America's first manned spaceflight, first manned orbital flight, and first spacewalk." ] ], [ "Annie Easley", [ "Annie J. Easley (April 23, 1933 – June 25, 2011) was an African-American computer scientist, mathematician, and rocket scientist.", " She worked for the Lewis Research Center (now Glenn Research Center) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and its predecessor, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA).", " She was a leading member of the team which developed software for the Centaur rocket stage and one of the first African-Americans to work as a computer scientist at NASA." ] ], [ "Abe Silverstein", [ "Abraham \"Abe\" Silverstein (September 15, 1908 – June 1, 2001) was an American engineer who played an important part in the United States space program.", " He was a longtime manager at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and its predecessor, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA).", " He was instrumental in the planning of the Apollo, Ranger, Mariner,