Answer given by Mr Bolkestein on behalf of the Commission (3 November 2004) The award of public service contracts for architectural services has, since the adoption on 18 June 1992 of the Council Directive 92/50/EC Council Directive 92/50/EEC of 18 June 1992 relating to the coordination of procedures for the award of public service contracts, OJ L 209, 24.7.1992 . , been subject to detailed rules. Architectural services are services within Annex I A of the Directive and this implies that the full range of the detailed rules of the Directive is applicable to these services. Although the Community public procurement Directives have recently been modified so that a new Directive Directive 2004/18/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts, OJ L 134, 30.4.2004 . covering also works and supplies contracts will replace Directive 92/50/EC, the status of architectural services within the scope of application of the Directive will not change. These services will remain subject to the full range of rules of the Directive with the exceptions to its scope of application defined only in the Directive itself. In its report on Competition in Professional Services COM(2004) 83 final. the Commission has pointed out that a significant body of empirical research shows the negative effects that excessive or outdated restrictive regulations may have for consumers. While the Commission acknowledges that some regulation in this sector is justified, it believes that in some cases more pro-competitive mechanisms can and should be used instead of certain traditional restrictive rules. As the Honourable Member has indicated, the Commission has identified essentially three reasons why some regulation of professional services can be necessary: asymmetry of information between customers and service providers, externalities, and the circumstance that certain professional services are deemed to produce ‘public goods’ that are of value for society in general. The Honourable Member asks how the Commission interprets these three reasons in the specific case of architectural design work. In the course of 2004, the Commission has met with different professional bodies, including the Architects’ Council of Europe, and with national regulators, to learn their views on these issues and to see how they can best be taken into account when regulating the profession. The Commission’s report already mentioned the development of high quality urban environments as a public good produced by the architectural profession. As an example of an externality it pointed out that a poorly constructed building may jeopardise public safety. The asymmetry of information implies that it is difficult for the consumer to judge the quality and price of architectural work. The Commission believes that the professional bodies have an important role to play in remedying this. They can inform consumers on the mission of the architect and on the rights and obligations of both the consumer and the architect. Though professional bodies would violate competition rules if they impose or recommend fee scales See e.g. the Commission Decision of 24 June 2004 regarding the recommended