to the global fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The Global Fund does not finance research and development activities. Funds for research and development are needed in parallel to those invested through the Global Fund. Justification The GFATM focuses on filling gaps in the financing of current responses to HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria and is driven by a country-led process suitable for this purpose. While the Fund may have future roles in supporting developing-country capacity to participate in trials as part of their responses to the three diseases or purchasing future products, its allocation process is not tailored to making decisions on R&D funding. It is crucial that funders do not assume that essential R&D investment is covered by the Fund and continue to support R&D in parallel to support for the GFATM. Amendment 7 Recital 8 (8) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom (hereafter known as “the participating States”) are undertaking individual national research and development programmes or activities aimed at developing new clinical interventions to combat the global problem of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. These programmes or activities, the required funds for which have been granted, form part of a long-term partnership between Europe and the developing countries . (8) Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom (hereafter known as “the participating States”) are undertaking individual national research and development programmes or activities aimed at developing new clinical interventions to combat the global problem of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. These programmes or activities, the required funds for which have been granted, form part of a long-term partnership between Europe and the developing countries and are aimed, in the context of an integrated approach, at achieving a swift and significant improvement in public health in those countries. Justification Action to combat these diseases should be placed in the general context of action to improve public health in the developing countries. Amendment 8 Recital 9 (9) At present, the research and development programmes or activities undertaken individually at national level are not the subject of coordination at European level and do not allow a coherent approach at European level for an effective campaign against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. (9) At present, the research and development programmes or activities undertaken individually at national level are not the subject of coordination at European level and do not allow a coherent approach at European level for an effective research and technological development programme against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries, or make it possible to find treatments geared to the conditions in developing countries . Justification Living conditions, and hence the conditions governing the care and treatment of persons with HIV/AIDS, malaria and/or TB in developing countries, can be completely different from those existing in developed countries. The whole R&D process should be geared to taking that crucial factor into account, failing which its final results could prove unusable. The results of R&D, in terms of treatments for