possible and without delay, avoiding time-consuming procedures or administrative obstacles. MEPs consider, in this respect, that the necessary resources need to be made available immediately for the purpose of relieving the suffering and satisfying the needs of victims and their immediate families by means of the EUSF, any other Community Instrument (e.g. Structural Funds or EARDF), or any other possible financial means. MEPs urge the Commission, especially of a financial nature, so as to support the rehabilitation of the regions which have suffered heavy damages, restore the productive potential in the affected areas, seek to re-launch job creation and take the appropriate measures to compensate the social costs inherent in the loss of jobs and other income sources. A European disaster force? MEPs request the creation of a European force that could immediately react in emergencies, as proposed in former Commissioner BARNIER's report (see link below), and regret the lack of response and follow-up in this respect. The House also emphasises, in this context, the need to continue the development of a rapid reaction capability based on the civil protection modules of the Member States. MEPs ask the Commission to draw up a concrete proposal to this end while underlining the role of Member States and their local authorities in effectively preventing and combating fires. Failed to demonstrate "sufficient solidarity" MEPs note that Member States' resources to combat forest fires, especially by aerial means, are limited and that it is not always possible for Member States to offer support when the resources are needed nationally. The House notes, as a result, that some Member States received less assistance than others and had to rely on bilateral agreements with non-EU states for assistance. MEPs regret, therefore, that in some cases the EU as a whole failed to display sufficient solidarity. The EP expresses its condolences to and strong solidarity with the relatives of those who lost their lives and with residents in the affected areas. MEPs pay tribute to the fire-fighters, professionals and volunteers who have worked tirelessly and risked their lives to extinguish fires, rescue people and limit damage from this summer’s natural disasters, as well as to the many individual citizens who fought to save their livelihoods and their surrounding environment. Floods in the UK The House emphasises the need to speed up the procedure to access EU funds for the recovery of agricultural land following floods and fires and for more financial aid to be made available in the development of flood defences. James ELLES (EPP-ED, UK, Conservative, South East) said: "We have had amongst the wettest months of June and July on record, in my country. As a result, the Association of British Insurers reckons damages could be up to EUR 5 billion. Ten lives have been lost, countless homes have been destroyed, countless businesses dislocated and infrastructure has been destroyed. Therefore, it would be extremely important that floods are also included in any action which the Commission wishes to propose." Richard CORBETT (PES, UK Labour Yorkshire and the Humber) said: "I draw attention in particular to the floods