Question for written answer E-008389/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Mara Bizzotto (EFD) (19 September 2011) Subject: Albanian irredentism and consequences for political stability in the Balkans Numerous research institutes have pointed out that since the dissolution of former Yugoslavia a large part of Albanian society and the political world has gradually adopted the nationalist irredentist ideology of the ‘Greater Albania’, according to which the Albanian state should extend beyond its borders and include all Balkan regions in which where there are Albanian ethnic groups, including Kosovo, north-western Greece and part of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). These studies point out that in 2003, a terrorist group known as the ‘Albanian National Army’ (ANA) emerged; its aim was to achieve this geopolitical goal through violence. Between September and August 2011, some further episodes took place that could indicate the existence of fresh support for the irredentist idea of a ‘Greater Albania’. In August, a second terrorist group entered the scene, called the ‘Armed Forces of Ethnic Albania’ (FASHE). It is probably based in Albania and has threatened to launch attacks against the Serb population in northern Kosovo. A few days after the publication of this threat, the ethnic Albanian groups in southern Serbia announced the start of a political resistance campaign against the Serbian state. Is the Commission aware of these new developments? What is its view of the entire issue of Albanian irredentism? Does it believe that the statements and behaviour of the ethnic Albanian groups in southern Serbia are really linked to the irredentist issue of ‘Greater Albania’? Does it believe that the sudden political opposition of these ethnic groups could be supported to some extent by nationalist political parties in Tirana? If so, could it be the prelude to a more serious political and military crisis, such as that which took place between Serbia and the Kosovo region, and could Albanian nationalism thus be the cause of further destabilisation in the Balkans?