15 May 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to Oral Question B5‑0224/2000 pursuant to Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure by Bob van den Bos on behalf of the ELDR Group on highly indebted poor countries European Parliament resolution on highly indebted poor countries The European Parliament, - having regard to its previous resolutions on highly indebted poor countries (HIPC), A. whereas a high level of debt is impeding the social and economic growth of a number of developing countries and, because of under-development in the education and health sectors, human development is suffering and investment in future generations is very limited, B. concerned at the fact that, furthermore, the indebted countries’ debt payments swallow up a large percentage of their export income, C. whereas any debt relief initiative must be based on a thorough analysis of the long-term sustainability of the country’s economic and political climate, D. whereas no debt relief effort can be carried out unless beneficiary governments provide proper guarantees as regards the transparency of the state budget, accountability, respect for human rights and the peaceful settlement of disputes with neighbouring countries, 1. Calls on the Council and the Commission to cooperate with the IMF and the World Bank to launch a special initiative for further debt relief efforts in order to implement a consistent development aid policy able to tackle poverty and social injustice; 2. Calls on the international financial institutions to consider the fight against poverty, food security and health and educational development as priorities for action, and to consider the debt issue from this point of view; 3. Calls on the Council and the Commission to monitor the situation and to advocate, in international fora, that debt relief should not be financed from funds intended for development cooperation; 4. Calls on the governments of the HIPC, the Commission and the international financial institutions to guarantee that the funds allocated for debt relief initiatives are effectively used for social development and the fight against poverty; 5 Calls on the Commission to make sure that no debt relief initiative is considered without transparent public finances and both qualitative and quantitative guarantees on the performance of social spending and investments; 6. Calls on the Member States and other European governments to cooperate fully in order to provide transparency in financial transactions, this being an essential means of improving the financial accountability and efficiency of some indebted countries; 7. Calls on the Council and the Commission to cancel debts accumulated within the Lomé Convention through special loans, risk capital and SYSMIN, or to write them off against legitimate STABEX claims, provided that the beneficiary governments respect human rights and the principles of good governance; 8. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the governments of the Member States and other European governments, the governments of the HIPC and the international financial institutions.