47 Annex, Article 4, paragraph 5 a (new) 5a. Decisions concerning the adoption of the ATM Master Plan and any relevant amendments to it shall require the favourable vote of all the founder members. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, such decisions may not be taken where the representatives referred to in Article 3(1) (c) to (f) unanimously express disagreement. Justification This amendment concerns the need to ensure consistent decision-making when proposing modifications to the ATM Master Plan. Amendment 48 Annex, Article 4, paragraph 5 b (new) 5b. The ATM Master Plan shall be communicated and forwarded to the European Parliament. Amendment 49 Annex, Article 5, paragraph 1, point (b) b) deciding on the accession of new members; b) proposing accession of new members; Justification This is to be consistent with amendments to Article 5 a (new) and to Annex, Art. 1(3) and Art. 4(5). The Administrative Board simply "proposes" - given the fulfilment of the criteria- and does not decide. It is up to the EU institutions to decide on the accession of new members. Amendment 50 Annex, Article 5, paragraph 1, point (c) c) appointing the Executive Director and approving the organisation chart; c) appointing the Executive Director , subject to the procedure laid down in Article 6(1) and (2) of the Annex, and approving the organisation chart; Justification This should be considered in conjunction with the amendment to Annex, Article 6(1) and 6(1a)(new) on the procedure concerning the appointment of the Executive Director. Amendment 51 Annex, Article 5 a (new) Article 5 a Avoidance of conflicts of interests 1. Members of the Joint Undertaking or of the Administrative Board and staff of the Joint Undertaking shall not participate in the preparation of calls for public tender or the evaluation or awarding of contracts if they own or have partnership agreements with bodies that are potential candidates for calls for public tender or represent such bodies. 2. Members of the Joint Undertaking and participants in the Administrative Board must disclose any direct or indirect personal or corporate interest in the outcome of the deliberations of the Administrative Board in relation to any matter on the agenda. This requirement also applies to the staff of the Joint Undertaking in relation to the tasks which are assigned to them. 3. On the basis of any disclosures as mentioned in paragraph 2, the Administrative Board may decide to exclude members, participants or staff from making decisions or undertaking tasks where a conflict of interests is likely to arise. Excluded members, participants and staff shall have no access to information relating to matters where there is a potential conflict of interests. Justification This is the result of consultations undertaken by the rapporteur with the Council and Commission representatives on the need to clarifying the conflict of interest. The Council's working group has proposed the above text. Amendment 52 Annex, Article 6, paragraph 1 1. The Executive Director shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Joint Undertaking and is its legal representative. He shall be appointed by the Administrative Board on a proposal