Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (23 February 2007) 1. The Commission has not at any time been involved in drawing up proposals to the United States (US) to allow the secret extradition of prisoners by means of rendition. 2. As stated at point 1, the Commission has not at any time made a proposal to the United States to allow the secret extradition of prisoners by means of rendition. The Commission has, since February 2006, participated as part of the Troika in a series of meetings with John Bellinger, the US State Department Legal Adviser, which have discussed the principles of international law relevant to counter-terrorism. During this dialogue, the Commission has made clear its view that any arrest and transfer of a person from the territory of one State to the territory of another State must comply at least with minimum due process guarantees, such as access to a court to challenge arrest, detention and transfer. Moreover, the Commission has recalled that a State cannot extradite a person to another State where there are substantial grounds for believing that he or she would be in danger of being subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. The Commission has also underlined that any form of deprivation of liberty which amounts to placing a detained person outside the protection of the law is in itself unlawful. 3 to 5. The Commission refers the Honourable Member to the answers given at point 1 and 2 above. 6. The Troika dialogue with the US on the principles of international law relevant to counter-terrorism is continuing. The Commission will continue to adopt the position set out at point 2 above. 7. The Commission agrees with the Honourable Member that extradition of suspects must be governed by rules which are public, laid down in accordance with the principles of Parliamentary democracy and which afford sufficient guarantees of proper treatment. As stated at points 2 and 6 above, the Commission has already made this clear during the dialogue with the United States and will continue to do so. It has to be underlined also that the Commission continues to urge the Member States to speed up the procedures necessary for the entry into force of EU‑US agreements on extradition and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters.