States shall provide that every controller keeps a register of any access and processing operation or sets of such an operation intended to serve a single purpose or several related purposes. The information to be contained in the register shall include Amendment 54 Article 26, paragraph 3 3. Member States may also carry out such checks in the context of preparation either of a measure of the national parliament or of a measure based on such a legislative measure, which define the nature of the processing and lay down appropriate safeguards. 3. Supervisory authorities shall be consulted on the provisions relating to the protection of individuals' rights and freedoms when legislative measures relating to data processing are drawn up. Amendment 55 Article 29, paragraph 2 2. Member States shall provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions for intentionally committed offences implying serious infringements of provisions adopted pursuant to this Framework Decision, notably provisions aimed at ensuring confidentiality and security of processing. 2. Member States shall provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions for offences committed intentionally or through gross negligence implying serious infringements of provisions adopted pursuant to this Framework Decision, notably provisions aimed at ensuring confidentiality and security of processing. Amendment 56 Article 29, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Member States shall ensure that offences committed by private parties collecting or processing personal data in connection with public administration which constitute serious violations of the provisions adopted pursuant to this Framework Decision, particularly of its provisions on confidentiality and the security of data processing, render the offender liable to effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties under the criminal law. Amendment 57 Article 30, paragraph 4, subparagraph 1 a (new) In particular, each supervisory authority shall, at the request of a data subject, examine the lawfulness of the processing of personal data relating to that person. It shall inform the data subject of the outcome of its examination. Amendment 58 Article 31, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 Each member of the Working Party shall be designated by the institution, authority or authorities which he represents. Where a Member State has designated more than one supervisory authority, they shall nominate a joint representative. Each member of the Working Party shall be designated by the institution, authority or authorities which he represents , in accordance with the existing national rules regulating the representation. Where a Member State has designated more than one supervisory authority, they shall nominate a joint representative. Amendment 59 Article 31, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 a (new) The chairperson of the Working Party set up by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC shall participate or be represented in the meetings of the Working Party. Amendment 60 Article 31, paragraph 3 3. The Working Party shall take its decisions by a simple majority of the representatives of the supervisory authorities of the Member States. 3. The Working Party shall take its decisions by a simple majority of the representatives of the supervisory authorities of the Member States and after consulting the European Data Protection Supervisor. Amendment 61 Article 34 a (new) Article