The Week Ahead 3-9 March 2008 2008-02-29 - 11:15 Committee meetings and political groups week - Brussels International Women's Day. The Women’s Rights and Gender Equality Committee will mark the week of International Women’s Day with a conference with national parliaments on the role of women in intercultural dialogue and gender mainstreaming in parliamentary work. EP President Hans-Gert Pöttering will open the event, which includes a press conference (Thursday ). The Press Service holds a seminar for journalists on the role of the media in intercultural dialogue – a perspective from women (Wednesday). Climate change. The Climate Change Committee emissions from the industrial, energy and transport sectors with experts and industry representatives (Monday) . Brazil/environment. Brazil's environment minister, Marina Silva, will appear before the Delegation for relations with Mercosur and the Climate Change Committee. She also has a meeting with President Pöttering (Wednesday) . United Nations. A joint meeting of the Foreign Affairs and Development Committees will hear from UN deputy secretary general Asha-Rose Migiro on UN reform and Africa (Thursday) . Satellite services. A co-decision report to be adopted at the Industry Committee will deal with satellite services and harmonisation of their frequencies (Thursday) . Parliament and European Citizens. President Pöttering will join a conference on issues arising from the Eurobarometer survey on the European Parliament. (Wednesday). Plenary preparations. The political groups will devote most of the week to preparations for the Strasbourg plenary session of 10-13 March. The agenda features the setting up of the European Institute for Innovation and Technology, the CAP 'Health Check', milk quotas, the EU's role in Iraq and plans for the Spring EU summit. The President of Estonia will address the House, and there will be a special event to mark Parliament's 50th anniversary. Pre-session press briefing. Any changes to the plenary agenda made by the Conference of Presidents will be announced at the regular briefing at 11am on Friday. 2008-03-03 Parliamentary committees DEVE Committee on Development Presentation by Sarath EKANAYAKE, Chief Minister of Central Province, Sri Lanka Disscussion with Stefano MANSERVISI, Director-General, DG DEV, European Commission - Commission's Work Programme - Regional integration 15:00 18:30 Brussels, PHS 3C50 Public hearings 5th Thematic Session: Emissions from industry and the energy and transport sectors Temporary Committee on Climate Change Members of the Parliament's Temporary Committee on Climate Change, joined by experts and industry representatives, will examine the issue of emissions from the industry, energy and transport sectors during the Committee's 5th thematic session. The hearing, chaired by Guido Sacconi, will feature discussions with -- among others -- Lars Göran Josefsson (CEO, Vattenfall), Matthias Wissmann (President of the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA)), Philippe Eydaleine (Air France - KLM), and Jacqueline McGlade (Executive Director of the European Environment Agency). Journalists who wish to interview any of the MEPs or guest speakers are kindly asked to contact the press officer responsible. 15:00 18:30 Brussels, PHS 1A002 Programme of the hearing 2008-03-04 Press conferences Today's press conferences 14:00 - "The Expelled" organised by the Institute of National Remembrance - Bogusław SONIK (EPP-ED, PL) 14:00 14:30 Brussels, PHS