The existence of the financial guarantees referred to in Articles 7 and 8 and the validity thereof shall be proved by one or more certificates, in accordance with the provisions of this Directive, and following the model set out in Annex III . 2. Certificates shall be issued by the competent authorities of the Member States once they are sure that the shipowner complies with the requirements laid down in this Directive. When issuing certificates, competent authorities shall also consider whether a guarantor has business operations in the EU. When a ship is registered in a Member State, the certificates shall be issued or certified by the competent authority of the State in which the ship is registered. When a ship is registered in a third country, the certificates may be issued or certified by the competent authority of any Member State. 3. The conditions for the issue and the validity of the certificates, in particular the criteria and conditions for issue, as well as the measures concerning the providers of the financial guarantees, shall be determined in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 17(2) . 4. The certificates shall comply with the model set out in Annex III and shall include the following information: a) name of ship and registry port; b) owner's name and principal place of business; c) type of guarantee; d) name and principal place of business of insurer or other person granting the guarantee and, where appropriate, the place of business where the insurance or guarantee is established; e) the period of validity of the certificate, which shall not exceed the period of validity of the insurance or guarantee. 5. The certificates shall be drawn up in the official language(s) of the issuing Member State. If the language used is neither English nor French, the text shall include a translation into one of these languages. Article 10 Notification of the financial guarantee certificate 1. The certificate shall be carried on board the ship and a copy shall be deposited with the authority which keeps the record of the ship's registry or, if the ship is not registered in a Member State, with the authority of the State which issued or certified the certificate. The authority concerned shall forward a copy of the certification file to the Community Office provided for in Article 15 so that the latter may include it in the register. 2. The operator, agent or captain of a ship entering the exclusive economic area or equivalent area of a Member State in the cases set out in Article 7 shall notify the authorities of that Member State that a financial guarantee certificate is being carried on board in accordance with the provisions of Annex IV . 3. The operator, agent or captain of a ship bound for a port or offshore terminal under the jurisdiction of a Member State or which wishes to drop anchor in an area under the jurisdiction of a Member State in the cases set out in Article 8 shall notify the authorities of that Member State