WRITTEN QUESTION E-3435/06 by Bart Staes (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (25 July 2006) Subject: Consequences of noise nuisance (particularly in extreme cases), sleep deprivation and chronic lack of sleep Deliberate sleep deprivation is widely recognised as a form of torture falling under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In Belgium alone, more than 200 extra people die each year because of night flights. In addition, numerous other people living near airports hardly get enough sleep. A chronic shortage of sleep causes serious stress, which also has long-term consequences: people cease to be capable of coherent thought and action, suffer from hypertension, etc. Noise nuisance does not only cause problems at night, incidentally: it does so by day too. Even if people are not subjectively aware of it (as those people are who realise that they are suffering from noise nuisance), objectively (while believing that they are unaffected) they display symptoms of numerous complaints caused by long-term exposure to noise. Does the Commission acknowledge that people living near airports are seriously affected by noise nuisance caused by the constant taking-off and landing of aircraft? Does the Commission acknowledge that a substantial reduction in aircraft noise, particularly at night, would make it possible to reduce by billions of euros the costs of healthcare for complaints related to this form of noise nuisance within the EU? Does the Commission acknowledge that sleep deprivation is a method of torture? Does the Commission acknowledge that people who experience the constant torment of night flights may suffer from a chronic sleep deficit which has the same consequences as deliberate torture of people by depriving them of sleep? What additional measures will the Commission take (i.e. in addition to the existing directives, 2002/30/EC OJ L 85, 28.3.2002, p. 40 . and 2002/49/EC OJ L 189, 18.7.2002, p. 12 . ) to introduce at European level better, more acceptable rules governing flights, particularly night flights, thus avoiding the necessity for thousands of people in the EU to suffer, or continue to suffer, from many disorders related to noise nuisance and a chronic sleep deficit?