of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European grouping of territorial cooperation (EGTC) Justification The general regulation on the Structural Funds establishes a new third objective, territorial cooperation, to comprise cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation. To ensure terms are used consistently, therefore, the title of the grouping, and its acronym, should be changed. Amendment 2 Recital 1 (1) Article 159, paragraph 3, of the treaty provides for specific actions to be decided outside the funds which are the subject of paragraph 1 of that article, in order to achieve the objective of social and economic cohesion envisaged by the treaty. The harmonious development of the entire community territory and greater economic, social and territorial cohesion imply the strengthening of cross-border co-operation. To this end it is appropriate to adopt the measures necessary for improving the implementation conditions for actions of cross-border co-operation. (1) Article 159, paragraph 3, of the treaty provides for specific actions to be decided outside the funds which are the subject of paragraph 1 of that article, in order to achieve the objective of social and economic cohesion envisaged by the treaty. The harmonious development of the entire community territory and greater economic, social and territorial cohesion imply the strengthening of territorial co-operation. To this end it is appropriate to adopt the measures necessary for improving the implementation conditions for actions of territorial co-operation. Justification The term 'cross-border cooperation' should be replaced by the term 'territorial cooperation' wherever the regulation uses the former while meaning the latter. Amendment 3 Recital 5 (5) Council Regulation (EC) No (…) laying down general provisions for the European regional development fund, the European social fund and the Cohesion fund, increases the means in support of European territorial co-operation. (5) Council Regulation (EC) No (…) laying down general provisions for the European regional development fund, the European social fund and the Cohesion fund, increases the means in support of European territorial co-operation within three domains: cross-border, inter-regional or trans-national . Amendment 4 Recital 6 (6) It is likewise necessary to facilitate and follow up the implementation of cross-border co-operation actions, without financial participation by the Community. (6) It is likewise necessary to facilitate and follow up the implementation of territorial co-operation actions, without financial participation by the Community. Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 5 Recital 7 (7) In order to overcome the obstacles hindering cross-border co-operation, it is necessary to institute a co-operation instrument at the community level, which allows the creation of co-operative groupings in the community territory, invested with legal personality, called “European groupings of cross-border co-operation” ( EGCC) . Recourse to the EGCC should be optional. (7) In order to overcome the obstacles hindering territorial co-operation, it is necessary to institute a co-operation instrument at the community level, which allows the creation of co-operative groupings in the community territory, invested with legal personality, called “European groupings of territorial co-operation” ( EGTC) . Recourse to the EGTC is optional. Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 6 Recital 7 a (new) (7a) Agreements on border, inter-regional or