Question for written answer E-010859/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Michail Tremopoulos (Verts/ALE) (23 November 2011) Subject: Restoration of the Tatoï former royal estate Concerns have recently been reported http://www.tovima.gr/society/article/?aid=429860&h1=true concerning the possible deterioration of the Tatoï former royal estate, an important national heritage site and a cultural and environmental centre of more than just local importance. It has already taken a year for the Environmental and Cultural Ministries to discuss and agree on the relevant draft general provisions and it was only a few days ago that they commissioned a team of young architects to draw up a plan for the restoration of the estate within six months, bearing in mind that around EUR 6.5 million of the EUR 8 million NSRF funding earmarked for the project may be lost if it is not completed by the end of 2012. Since 2003, when Greek Government assumed control of the entire estate for a sum of EUR 12 million, very little has been done to conserve it. The Royal Villa is now being emptied and the Temple of the Resurrection is currently being restored by the Ministry for Culture. Restoration work has also been completed on three of the 27 scheduled buildings, albeit not as it should have been. On the other hand, older buildings such as the Sturm Residence (1874), the Winery (1880) and the Gardener's Cottage (1880) are in danger of falling to ruin. The forests on the Tatoï estate are at serious risk, having been neglected for many years, and need particular attention. 1. Has the Commission been informed by the Greek authorities of progress made with this project? 2. Is it true that NSRF funding may be forfeited? 3. Does it consider that the matter should be thrown open to public debate while there is still time and architects invited to submit bids as part of an international competitive tendering procedure for the conservation and restoration of the estate? 4. What assistance has been given in this connection by the task force set up by Mr Barroso for the purpose of providing technical expertise to facilitate the disbursement of NSRF funding in Greece?