WRITTEN QUESTION E-1614/04 by Mogens Camre (UEN) to the Commission (17 August 2004) Subject: How will the Commission ensure that EU funds are not used to finance terrorism? According to the Israeli paper Arutz Sheva and the German weekly Die Welt , a new report from OLAF has concluded that amounts in excess of USD 10 million donated by the EU for humanitarian aid to the Palestinian authorities have been used for terrorism against Israel. The conclusions, based on documents which were produced by Israel in April 2002, but have only just — at the request of the EU Commissioner for external relations — been investigated and verified as true and genuine by OLAF, prove that massive amounts of funds from the EU’s aid programmes have gone on Palestinian terrorism which day by day, hour by hour, is costing the lives of innocent Jewish civilians in Israel. The conclusions are based on the information produced by Israel two years ago, in April 2002, in connection with Operation Defence Shield. Many of these documents, which have only now been acknowledged, contain Afarat’s signature and his approval of the activities of 11 different terrorist leaders. Moreover, the documents show that the PLO’s headquarters in Jerusalem, Orient House, has operated as a centre for terrorist activities and has given economic aid to families of terrorists. The money has gone inter alia to fund terrorism by Fatah-Tanzim and Hamas. Since 1994, according to these newspapers, some USD 1.5 million has been given in humanitarian aid to the Palestinian areas. In the light of the above, can the Commission state how it proposes in future to administer its aid to the Palestinian areas, and what thoughts it has had about how to avoid contributing to the funding of terrorism in future. Can the Commission also state why the Commissioner responsible did not initiate an investigation of these documents from Israel until a year after they were submitted, and whether it will ensure that the OLAF report, referred to by way of justification, is published?