Question for written answer E-8811/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Michail Tremopoulos (Verts/ALE) (26 October 2010) Subject: Mass expulsions of Roma from France and Italy The French Government recently used the police to break up Roma camps in various parts of France and carry out mass expulsions of their residents, who are citizens of other EU Member States. A statement issued by the French Government described these camps as ‘hotbeds of illegal trafficking, the exploitation of children for begging, prostitution or crime’. These measures were taken regardless of whether individuals had participated in illegal activities, and there are serious indications that the principle of collective responsibility applied by the Nazis has been indirectly reintroduced. Similar deportations have been proposed in Italy http://euobserver.com/9/30657 , in statements by the Interior Minister, who even aspires to influence European policy. A spokesperson for the European Commissioner for Justice and Fundamental Rights appears to have provided some cover for this action, stating that ‘European laws on freedom of movement for European citizens give the Member States the right to control their territory and combat crime’. Can the Commission answer the following questions: 1. Bearing in mind that 2010 has been designated the ‘year for combating poverty and social exclusion’, what action has the Commission taken to ensure that the Roma communities whose camps were dismantled are provided with decent alternative accommodation? 2. Does the Charter of Fundamental Rights allow a community to be subject to defamatory practices and all its members to be deported without any safeguards as to whether investigations were carried out to establish whether individuals have been involved in illegal activities? 3. Is the Commission aware of any other cases of mass expulsions of European citizens from France or other Member States, apart from members of the Roma community? 4. What steps will it take vis-à-vis France or Italy if it is demonstrated that these mass expulsions exclusively target Roma and constitute discrimination against members of this community?