interest, would be less effective without the creation of mechanisms for the constant surveillance of soil use (monitoring increases in irrigation, reclassification of protected areas, urban development on wetlands, construction of infrastructure on fertile soil, etc.); considers that, taking account of the subsidiarity principle, such use-surveillance mechanisms should be implemented in close collaboration with the Member States; 4. Calls on the Commission to draw up guidelines, addressed to the Member States and the competent regional authorities, for preventing, monitoring and controlling soil pollution; 5. Supports the Commission in collating and perfecting the existing databases and completing the maps in order to obtain a georeferenced system; approves, likewise, the creation of a digital geographic information system which would gather the currently fragmented information at appropriate levels and which would be accessible to the public; 6. Calls on the Commission, in line with the SOVEUR report Van Lynden , G.W., 2000. Soil degradation in Central and Eastern Europe: The assessment of the status of human-induced soil degradation. FAO-ISRIC, Rome. , to carry out an audit to provide a methodical assessment and mapping of European soil, taking into account the need for a specific approach based on three main principles: precaution, anticipation and prevention; believes that these principles, in the spirit of the FAO World Soil Charter, should be designed to prevent soil erosion and desertification; 7. Proposes to the Commission, once the catalogues and diagnoses have been completed, that European soils be zonified, taking account of geographic, climatic and typological heterogeneity, including uses and risks and its proposals for feasible monitoring at the appropriate levels; 8. Calls on the Commission to study the possibility of adopting a system of specific soil indicators which will make it possible to trace the development of the state of soil in line with the steps taken, starting with an initial diagnosis; points out, in this connection, that there are already systems proposed by the European Environment Agency and the OECD (pressure-state-response system) which could be adopted in the thematic strategy; 9. Considers it necessary for soil protection to be better integrated into Community policies, in particular, soil protection should be taken into account in the context of the common agricultural policy (CAP), on (regional) infrastructure projects co-financed by the European Union both in connection with the Trans-European Networks, and when granting support from the Structural and Cohesion Funds and pre-accession aid; 10. Calls on the Commission to make cross compliance compulsory for all payments under the CAP, ensuring that all relevant aspects of soil protection are covered in the definition of "good agricultural and environmental condition", including mandatory soil management plans, providing free impartial data and advice to all farmers, in both arable and pastoral systems; 11. Supports the Commission's initiative to draw up a legislative proposal, the nature of which should be determined in the thematic strategies, on the creation of a system for monitoring soil and possible compaction; 12. Calls on the Commission to review existing legislation with a view to the improved integration of soil protection and, through supplementary proposals, to ensure that greater account