of minors and human dignity in relation to the content of all audiovisual and information services offered to the public in whatever form of delivery, from broadcasting to the Internet. Article 22 of Council Directive 89/552/EEC 1 on television without frontiers has already specifically addressed the question of the protection of minors and human dignity in television broadcasting activities. __________________ 1 OJ L 298, 17.10.1989, p. 23. As amended by Directive 97/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 202, 30.7.1997, p. 60). Amendment 9 Recital 1 a (new) (1a) The European Community has already intervened in the field of audiovisual and information services in order to create the necessary conditions to ensure the free movement of television broadcasts and other information services, respecting the principles of free competition and freedom of expression and information, but it should intervene with greater determination in this area with the aim of laying down a set of legal provisions, also adopting measures to combat and protect consumers from incitement to discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. Justification It is necessary to prevent the possibility of the information and communication media being used to incite discrimination, hatred or violence. Amendment 10 Recital 2 a (new) (2a) The Commission should pay special attention to the implementation of this recommendation when revising or concluding new partnership agreements or new cooperation programmes with third countries, bearing in mind the global character of producers, distributors or suppliers of audiovisual content and Internet access. Justification Because of the global reach of the Internet and the technical impossibility of monitoring all pages or sites produced, the Commission should ensure compliance with this recommendation when revising or establishing new exchange or partnership programmes with third countries. Amendment 11 Recital 5 (5) The changing media landscape, resulting from new technologies and media innovation, makes it necessary to teach children, and also parents, to use the media effectively. (5) The changing media landscape, resulting from new technologies and media innovation, makes it necessary to teach children, parents, educators and teachers to use the media effectively , since prevention and improved parental control will always be the best form of protection against the dangers posed by the Internet . Justification Young people can only be taught safe and proper use of the Internet if educators, teachers and parents are aware of the dangers and of how to protect against them. Amendment 12 Recital 5 a (new) (5a) Generally, self-regulation of the audiovisual sector is proving an effective additional measure, but it is not sufficient to protect minors from messages with harmful content. The development of a European audiovisual area based on freedom of expression and respect for citizens’ rights, as laid down in the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, should be based on an ongoing dialogue between national and European law makers, regulatory authorities, industries, associations, consumers and civil society actors. Justification No method of protecting minors is totally effective on its own. It is therefore essential to coordinate all protective measures,