WRITTEN QUESTION E-4923/06 by Eija-Riitta Korhola (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (15 November 2006) Subject: Alleged cooperation between the Commission and Greenpeace A press officer of Greenpeace Finland recently stated in a radio interview (Radio Vega, Finnish Public Radio, 16 October): ‘One point which is often forgotten is that the European Commission regularly contacts us and asks us to get involved in a situation where they themselves — the Commission itself — have/has no powers or, say, no way of stopping environmental crimes. This has happened many times.’ The press officer repeated the comment during a current affairs programme on morning TV (Yle TV 1, 23 October), adding that the contacts came directly from individual Commission officials and that he had not meant that the Commission as an institution contacted Greenpeace. Is the Commission aware of this practice, which according to Greenpeace is ‘well established’, or does it wish to distance itself from it? Have the Commission officials concerned exceeded their powers, or does the Commission regard such cooperation as unproblematic? Does the Commission consider that, if such practices prevail, the various sections of society will continue to trust the impartiality of the authority? Does the Commission consider this to be the best way of influencing the implementation of EU environmental law and respect for it? Does resorting to such subterfuges promote legality or the idea that an environmental crime is a crime like any other? Is there not a danger that the methods sometimes used by NGOs, which are on the very borderline of legality or even beyond it, may suggest that it is not possible to deal with environmental issues within the framework of the normal rule of law, in which case the ultimate outcome may depend on such chance factors as who runs the highest-profile campaign or has the most muscle? As far as legal safeguards are concerned, if an official has misunderstood something or Greenpeace has got the wrong message, to whom can a business appeal if it unjustifiably falls victim to the judgment of such a ‘field tribunal’ at the instigation of the Commission?