a Member State that intentionally or by serious negligence, misrepresents deficit and debt data relevant for the application of Articles 121 and 126 of the Treaty and the protocol (No 12) annexed to the Treaty. 2. The fines referred to in paragraph 1 shall be effective, dissuasive and proportionate to the nature and the seriousness of the breach, the duration of the breach. The amount of the fine shall not exceed 0.2% of GDP. 3. In order to establish the existence of infringements referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, the Commission may conduct all necessary investigations. The Commission may decide to initiate an investigation when it finds that there are serious indications on the possible existence of facts liable to constitute an infringement in the sense of paragraph (1) of this Article. The Commission shall investigate the presumed infringements taking into account any comments submitted by the Member State subject to investigation. In order to carry out its tasks, the Commission may request to the Member State subject to investigation to provide information, as well as conduct on site inspections and accede to the accounts of all government entities at central, state, local and social security levels. If required by the national law of the Member State subject to investigation, authorization by a judicial authority shall be applied for before any on site inspection. Upon completion of its investigation, and before submitting any proposal to the Council, the Commission shall give to the Member State subject to investigation the opportunity of being heard on the matters being investigated. The Commission shall base its proposal to the Council only on facts on which the Member State concerned has had the opportunity to comment. The rights of defence of the Member State subject to investigation shall be fully respected during the investigations. 4. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article -8a concerning (a) detailed criteria establishing the amount of the fine; (b) detailed rules on the procedure for the investigations referred to in paragraph 3, associated measures and reporting on the investigations, as well as detailed rules of procedure aimed at guaranteeing the rights of defence, access to file, legal representation, confidentiality and temporal provisions and the collection of fines. 5. The Court of Justice shall have unlimited jurisdiction to review decisions whereby the Council has fixed a fine in accordance with paragraph 1. It may annul, reduce or increase the fine imposed. Article 6b Fines imposed pursuant to Articles 3 to 6a are of an administrative nature. Article 7 Distribution of the interest and fines The interest earned by the Commission on deposits lodged in accordance with Article 4 and the fines collected in accordance with Articles 5 and 6a shall constitute other revenue , as referred to in Article 311 of the Treaty, and shall be assigned to ▌the European Financial Stability Facility. By the moment another stability mechanism to provide financial assistance is created by Member States whose currency is the euro in order to safeguard the stability of the euro area as