Reply (1 December 2008) The issue of financial stability in the EU and the protection of deposits and pension schemes is of deep concern to the Council. Already in October last year, in the early stages of the current financial turmoil, the Council adopted an action plan setting out very precise measures which need to be taken to reinforce the regulatory framework to address weaknesses in regulation and strengthen the resilience of the EU financial system. The plan focused on four key areas of work: improving transparency; valuation of financial products; strengthening prudential requirements; and making markets function better (e.g. through better credit rating policy). Ministers and Governors of central banks, at their informal meeting in Nice on 13 September 2008, found progress on the roadmap to be broadly on track. On 7 October 2008, the Council called for a full and timely implementation of this roadmap. On 7 October, the Council welcomed the work of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS) on transparency and the efforts of most banks in following CEBS' guidelines on good reporting practices, and recalled the urgency to enhance banks' practices for the evaluation of exposures and urged supervisors and accounting standards-setters to ensure that the financial reporting framework functions properly with clear guidelines on valuation that can be applied consistently across institutions. The Council also welcomed the Commission proposals for amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD) covering areas such as risk management, a possible supervisory framework for cross-border groups, crisis management and enhanced requirements for securitisation in view of further strengthening the existing prudential framework and risk management in the financial sector, as well as the Commission's proposals for amendments to ensure that the risks associated with the ‘originate-and-distribute model’ (ODM) are properly mitigated. As regards insurance and the pension schemes covered by the insurance legislation, the European Parliament and the Council are currently discussing a proposal for a directive aimed at improving consumer protection, modernising supervision at national level and the possible supervisory framework for cross-border groups, deepening market integration and increasing the international competitiveness of European insurers. According to the proposal, insurers would be required to take account of all types of risk to which they are exposed and manage those risks more effectively. The general measures taken to protect the financial system also aim indirectly at protecting pension schemes. However, at this stage, the Council does not envisage taking specific measures on pension schemes. The Council also agreed on the need to continue pursuing a coordinated response to the economic situation at European level within the scope of Member States' respective responsibilities, coupled with Member States' flexibility to adjust their response to their individual situation. In this context, the Council stressed the need to ensure the functioning of the cross-border stability arrangements as envisaged in the memorandum of understanding on financial stability agreed in June 2008 between Ministers, central banks and the financial supervisors in the EU.