both spouses. Any communication by electronic means which provides a durable record of the agreement shall be deemed equivalent to writing. 2. However, if the law of the participating Member State in which the spouses have their habitual residence at the time the agreement is concluded lays down additional formal requirements for agreement s of that type , those requirements shall apply. 3. If the spouses are habitually resident in different participating Member States at the time the agreement is concluded and the laws of those States lay down different formal requirements, the agreement shall be formally valid if it satisfies the requirements of either of those laws. 4. If only one of the spouses is habitually resident in a participating Member State at the time the agreement is concluded and that State lays down additional formal requirements for agreement s of that type , those requirements shall apply. Amendment 43 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 4a Conversion of legal separation into divorce 1. Where a legal separation is converted into a divorce, the law applicable to the divorce shall be the law applied to the legal separation, unless the parties have agreed otherwise in accordance with Article 3. 2. However, if the law applied to the legal separation does not provide for the conversion of legal separation into divorce, Article 4 shall apply, unless the parties have agreed otherwise in accordance with Article 3. Amendment 44 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Application of the lex fori Application of the law of the forum Where the law applicable pursuant to Article 3 or Article 4 makes no provision for divorce or does not grant one of the spouses equal access to divorce or legal separation on grounds of their sex, the lex fori shall apply. Where the law applicable pursuant to Article 3 or Article 4 makes no provision for divorce or does not grant one of the spouses equal access to divorce or legal separation on grounds of their sex, the law of the forum shall apply. Amendment 45 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 7a Differences in national law Nothing in this Regulation shall oblige the courts of a participating Member State whose law does not provide for divorce , or does not deem the marriage in question valid for the purposes of divorce proceedings , to pronounce a decree of divorce by virtue of the application of this Regulation. Amendment 46 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment States with more than one legal system States with two or more legal systems – territorial 1. Where a State comprises several territorial units each of which has its own rules of law in respect of divorce and legal separation, each territorial unit shall be considered a State for the purpose of determining the law applicable under this Regulation. 1. Where a State comprises several territorial units each of which