Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (11 May 2010) The Commission shares the concerns expressed by the Honourable Member regarding the importance of celebrating the 11 March as a symbolic date to pay tribute to all victims of terrorist attacks and to recall the importance of helping survivors and contributing to restoring damages suffered. The commemoration of 11 March gives the opportunity to raise awareness and expresses solidarity with victims and their families throughout the European Union and elsewhere in the world. Each year since the 1st European day of victims of terrorism, on 11 March 2005, the Commission has contributed to honouring the memories of victims through ceremonies. In 2010, for the first time, the Commission was directly involved in the organisation of the European Day on Remembrance of Victims of Terrorism which took place in Brussels. This event was organised in cooperation with the European Network of Associations of Victims of Terrorism financed by the Commission, which facilitates the very important participation of victims of terrorism and families of victims from seven different Member States, and of the leaders of national associations of victims. In addition to the victims of terrorism, the event was attended by a high turnout of representatives of Member States and by university students and media representatives. The presence of Ms Reding, Vice President of the Commission, responsible for Justice, Fundamental Rights and Citizenship and of Ms Malmström, Commissioner responsible for Home Affairs, as well as of the Under Secretary of State of the Spanish Ministry of Interior, and of Mr de Kerchove, the EU Counter Terrorism Coordinator, confirmed the high political profile of the event. The Parliament (president of the Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (LIBE) committee) was also invited to attend the meeting. The format of the conference, combining a high political profile and discussion with victims of terrorism, has been very well received. It has been an opportunity once again to remember and honour those who have been injured or lost their lives in terrorist attacks in Europe and elsewhere in the world. This sixth European day was also used to recall the EU's unwavering support for the democratic values and fundamental rights that it shares across Europe. Indeed, the Commission considers that the best way it can contribute to this day is by helping to make this a day of civil and democratic debate. Moreover, for the past six years, the Commission has demonstrated its full support for the victims of terrorism through different actions. One of them aims at supporting initiatives promoting the dissemination of testimonies of victims of terrorism. These actions will help to further sensitise citizens and provide platforms for victims to counter and delegitimize the violence narrative of terrorism. As regards the concern expressed by the Honourable Member to celebrate the 11 March in each Member States, it should be noted that national days for commemorations or celebrations are a prerogative of Member States, and therefore they fall outside the remit of the Commission. In relation to proposing that 11 March be established