measures. Over the full 5 year period of the protocol, the mentioned targeted measures concern (in brackets the figures in the previous 4 year protocol): - Scientific programme1 000 € (300 000 €) - Training750 000 € (400 000 €) - Aid for the Fisheries ministry300 000 € (200 000 €) - Support for small-scale fisheries1 250 000 € (300 000 €) - Surveillance1 500 000 € (800 000 €) Evaluation of former protocol Since some time the Commission has begun to draft assessment reports on the application of the fisheries agreements. The valuable evaluation report on the 8th protocol covering the period from 16 June 1997 to 15 June 2001, supplies information both on the application of the protocol and the country's economic situation. Unfortunately a cost-benefit analysis of the application of the protocol is not included. In its evaluation report the Commission determines the use of the protocol in terms of licences issued. It has to borne in mind that the use of the fishing opportunities has been strongly influenced by the suspension of the protocol and therefore it is hard to draw clear conclusions. In the two previous protocols (93-95 and 96-97) the use of shrimp fishing possibilities reached a 90-95% rate in terms of licences issued. Over these periods the utilisation rate for fin fish and cephalopods has been extremely weak and close to zero. According to the evaluation paper for tuna fishing, the use has been comparable with the level reached in the other agreements concerning this highly migratory fish in the Atlantic Ocean. The evaluation report comprises a worrying paragraph on the state of the demersal stocks. To a large extent overexploitation has been caused by illegal fisheries and by fishing as a result of many private agreements that have been concluded by authorities of Guinea-Bissau. Technical measures have been introduced to counterbalance the intense fisheries activities. However, due to inadequate control no guarantees can be given that these measures indeed have been observed. The rapporteur supports therefore the investment of 1,5 million €, being part of the targeted measures, to improve the country's surveillance and control activities. Remarks * While fishing prospects for shrimp and cephalopod fishing only marginally change, the number of permits for tuna pole-line vessels sharply diminishes from 52 to 36. Although in 1997, the year before the suspension of the agreement not all the available licences were issued, your rapporteur regrets it strongly that the Commission seems not to have been able to conclude an agreement which would allow to relocate a major part of the fleet that operated in Morocco to the waters of Guinea-Bissau. The rapporteur is satisfied, however, with the possibilities provided in the new protocol to extend the fishing possibilities when the state of the resources improves. In this framework, measures taken to step up surveillance activities and attack illegal fisheries, also deserve the Parliament's support. * Article 3 of the protocol touches on the conditions applicable for responsible fisheries. The rapporteur welcomes the efforts agreed upon by both parties to closely follow the development of the