WRITTEN QUESTION E-3231/05 by Paul Rübig (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (15 September 2005) Subject: CO2 emissions trading — excessive burden on small emitters in particular Directive 2003/87/EC OJ L 275, 25.10.2003, p. 32 . established a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading intended to promote reductions of greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner (Article 1). The industry is finding the question of the scope of the directive (Annex I) highly problematic: — the scope of the directive is defined using low threshold values referring to installation capacity (e.g. combustion installations with a capacity greater than 20 MW); — the actual amount of CO2 emitted is not the deciding factor. This means that a great deal of installations must be considered small emitters: — 69 % of the installations in Europe that are required to take part in emissions trading emit less than 50000 t of CO2 a year; — these installations are responsible for only 2.5 % of the CO2 emissions covered by emissions trading. A reduction in this small amount of emissions would not have any noticeable impact on the climate. While attempts have been made in the course of transposing this legislation to deal with its particular impact on small emitters, these attempts have not provided them with sufficient relief. The heavy cost, in terms both of time and money, of emissions monitoring and of administration (bank charges, licensing, etc.) resulting from the emissions trading scheme has a comparatively much greater impact on small emitters than on large emitters. The intention of the emissions trading scheme is to promote investment in reducing CO2 levels by levying charges on CO2 emissions. Currently, however, the scheme’s high fixed costs mean that it effectively acts as a tax independent of CO2 emission levels. As a result, the scheme is not achieving its intention in the case of small emitters. What measures does the Commission intend to take in order to alleviate the impact of this legislation that is unfavourable to small emitters and to improve the way in which the emissions trading scheme is intended to work? Will it be possible to exempt installations with CO2 emissions of less than 50000 t a year from the scheme in good time before the Kyoto commitment period of 2008-2012?