marriage in question valid for the purposes of divorce proceedings to pronounce a divorce by virtue of the application of the regulation, is extremely problematic. This is because the jurisdiction rules with regard to divorce and legal separation in Regulation No 2201/2003 are peremptory. The relevant articles of that regulation read as follows: SECTION 1 Divorce, legal separation and marriage annulment Article 3 General jurisdiction 1. In matters relating to divorce, legal separation or marriage annulment, jurisdiction shall lie with the courts of the Member State (a) in whose territory: - the spouses are habitually resident, or - the spouses were last habitually resident, insofar as one of them still resides there, or - the respondent is habitually resident, or - in the event of a joint application, either of the spouses is habitually resident, or - the applicant is habitually resident if he or she resided there for at least a year immediately before the application was made, or - the applicant is habitually resident if he or she resided there for at least six months immediately before the application was made and is either a national of the Member State in question or, in the case of the United Kingdom and Ireland, has his or her "domicile" there; (b) of the nationality of both spouses or, in the case of the United Kingdom and Ireland, of the "domicile" of both spouses. 2. For the purpose of this Regulation, "domicile" shall have the same meaning as it has under the legal systems of the United Kingdom and Ireland. Article 4 Counterclaim …. Article 5 Conversion of legal separation into divorce … Article 6 Exclusive nature of jurisdiction under Articles 3, 4 and 5 A spouse who: (a) is habitually resident in the territory of a Member State; or (b) is a national of a Member State, or, in the case of the United Kingdom and Ireland, has his or her "domicile" in the territory of one of the latter Member States, may be sued in another Member State only in accordance with Articles 3, 4 and 5. Article 7 Residual jurisdiction …. The difficulty is best illustrated by an example. The new regulation on applicable law is in force. A and B are nationals of different Member States who entered into a same-sex marriage in one of the Member States which have introduced legislation to permit such marriages. They have been habitually resident for three years in a Member State which does not permit same-sex marriages but participated in the adoption of the regulation on applicable law under the enhanced cooperation procedure. A and B wish to dissolve their marriage. Under the rules of Regulation No 2201/2003, the only courts having jurisdiction in those circumstances are the courts of the Member State in which they are habitually resident. If they apply to the local court for a divorce, that court has to accept jurisdiction but Article 7a will apply and no divorce will be granted. It is noted that, in the case of divorce, Regulation No 2201/2003 does not provide for