not contain. As indicated under the second question, the main responsibility to enforce these rules lies with the national competent authorities. 4. The rules on advertising do not distinguish between symptom-based advertising and other forms of advertising. As a matter of principle therefore, symptom-based advertising is not prohibited by the legislation as such, but has to respect all existing rules on advertising. The borderline between information and advertising is very important as completely different rules apply to information, which generally is allowed, and advertising, which is prohibited to a much further extent. The Commission is fully aware that in practice it is sometimes difficult to precisely draw this distinction. However, we do not have any conclusive evidence suggesting that the pharmaceutical industry is abusing symptom-based advertising as a mechanism to circumvent the strict rules on advertising. In this context, it is worth mentioning that the Commission gives a high priority to improving information available to patients on medicinal products. Article 88a of Directive 2001/83/EC, as amended by the Pharmaceutical Review of 2004, provides an opportunity to thoroughly investigate the topic. This provision calls upon the Commission to present to the Parliament and the Council a report on current practice with regard to information provision — particularly on the Internet — and its risks and benefits for patients. The report shall be prepared following consultations with patients’ and consumers’ organisations, doctors’ and pharmacists’ organisations, Member States and interested parties. It is due within three years of the entry into force of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency (text with EEA relevance), OJ L 136, 30.4.2004. , which means by 2007. Following analysis of this report, the Commission shall, if appropriate, put forward proposals setting out an information strategy to ensure good quality, objective, reliable and non-promotional information on medicinal products and other treatments and shall address the question of the information source's liability. 5. Advertising is already strictly controlled. The provisions governing advertising were thoroughly reviewed in the recent revision of the pharmaceutical legislation and were agreed by the Commission, Member States and the Parliament. It is the responsibility of the Member States to ensure correct application of the legislation by means of, for example, inspections services or financial penalties.