WRITTEN QUESTION E-6464/09 by Ramon Tremosa i Balcells (ALDE) to the Commission (4 January 2010) Subject: Construction of the future Oliana bypass (C14 highway) The Catalonian Generalitat wishes to build the future Oliana bypass (C14 highway) in Catalonia without reference to its impact on the environment and the landscape, to its effect in economic terms, or to majority public opinion. The bypass is to be built through very rich farmland, whose current capacity for production will be lost thanks to the new infrastructure. Furthermore, the sustainability chain which the land in question creates in conjunction with the region’s stockbreeding sector will be broken. The Oliana town council has accepted the planned route, despite the fact that objectives have been raised both from within the local council itself and, in an individual capacity, by local councillors from the opposition. The Generalitat, ignoring what is set out in the Plan territorial de l’Alt Pirineu i Aran, has not committed itself to not dividing or even avoiding destroying productive farmland, . The land in question has already been greatly reduced by the expropriations for the Rialb Reservoir. The current plans for the infrastructure, as set out in the relevant study, mean the fragmentation of the fields and the dividing up of farm roads, producing a barrier effect in both natural and human terms. The Confederación Hidrográfica del Ebro, in a report of 1992, acknowledged the inconsistency of the future development of Oliana as a tourist destination, since ‘the route proposed for the C‑1313 highway bypass […] means introducing a fresh barrier to environmental planning for the area’. Unanimous agreements reached by the Oliana town councillors also reject the route in question. In view of the foregoing, does the Commission not think that the scheme to build the future C14 highway would infringe its communication on Thematic Strategy on the Urban Environment (COM(2005)718 final) adopted on 11 January 2006, and likewise the Sixth Community Action Programme on the Environment, given that the communication clearly states that ‘sustainable urban design (appropriate land-use planning) will help reduce urban sprawl and the loss of natural habitats and biodiversity. Integrated management of the urban environment should foster sustainable land-use policies which avoid urban sprawl and reduce soil-ceiling, include promotion of urban biodiversity and raise awareness for urban citizens’?