covering all the activities of the Authority in the previous year; Amendment 111 Article 25, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. The Executive Director shall forward the programmes and general report to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States, and shall have them published. He shall present in person the programme of work, the revisable multiannual programme and the general report to the European Parliament. Amendment 112 Article 26, paragraph 3 3. The Advisory Forum shall advise the Executive Director in the performance of his duties under this Regulation and shall ensure close cooperation between the Authority and the competent bodies in the Member States which undertake tasks similar to those of the Authority. 3. The Advisory Forum shall advise the Executive Director in the performance of his duties under this Regulation and shall ensure close cooperation between the Authority and the competent bodies in the Member States which undertake tasks similar to those of the Authority. The Advisory Forum shall constitute a mechanism for an exchange of information on potential risks and the pooling of knowledge. Members of the Advisory Forum shall also act in the interests of food safety and the general principles of Community food law. Amendment 113 Article 26, paragraph 4 4. The Advisory Forum shall be chaired by the Executive Director , who shall convene its meetings . Its operational procedures shall be specified in the Authority's internal rules. 4 . The Advisory Forum shall meet at the Chairperson's invitation or at the request of at least a third of its members and not less than six times per year. The Advisory Forum shall be chaired by the Executive Director . Its operational procedures shall be specified in the Authority's internal rules and shall be made public. Amendment 114 Article 26, paragraph 6 6. Representatives of the Commission's departments shall be entitled to take part in the work of the Advisory Forum. 6. Representatives of the Commission's departments , in particular the Food and Veterinary Office, and of the European Parliament , shall be entitled to take part in the work of the Advisory Forum without voting rights. Amendment 115 Article 27, paragraph 1 1. The Scientific Committee and permanent Scientific Panels shall be responsible for providing the scientific opinions of the Authority, each within their own spheres of competence. 1. The Scientific Committee and permanent Scientific Panels shall be responsible for providing the scientific opinions of the Authority, each within their own spheres of competence , in line with the Authority's mission, and shall be able where necessary, to organise public hearings. Amendment 116 Article 27, paragraph 5 5. The members of the Scientific Committee that are not members of Scientific Panel and the members of the Scientific Panels shall be appointed by the Management Board, acting upon a proposal from the Executive Director, for a three-year term of office, which shall be renewable, following publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities of a call for expressions of interest. 5. The members of the Scientific Committee that are not members of