applied. Justification The World Medical Association has adopted the Helsinki Declaration laying down the ethical principles which must apply to medical research involving human subjects. That declaration, which comes from within the medical profession, must be taken as a reference for any clinical-trial programme conducted anywhere in the world. On 4 April 2001, Parliament and the Council adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. The parties to the EDCTP programme should adopt the same rules so as to prevent any distortion or discrimination from arising between the ethical standards required inside and outside the European Union. Amendment 26 Article 3b (new) 3b. In pursuing the EDCTP programme activities described in the Annex to this Decision, the common structure shall ensure that strategic decision-making and the implementation of the programmes are geared to the objective of placing on the market effective products which are available at the lowest possible price, which are easy to use and which are suited to the specific conditions found in the developing countries. Justification The ultimate aim of the programme must be to place on the market suitable products which people in developing countries can afford to buy, with a view to combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in those contraries. Amendment 27 Article 5, paragraph 1 (1) The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and calls on the participating States and the common structure to forward any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the financial management of the common structure. (1) The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and will request from the participating States and the common structure any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the financial management of the common structure. Justification Strengthens accountability to the European Parliament. Amendment 28 Article 5, paragraph 1a (new) (1a) The Annual report on the Framework Programme presented to the European Parliament and Council pursuant to Article 173 of the Treaty shall include the results of the evaluation of the EDCTP Programme, a description of the activities carried out in connection with research and technological development, creation of the European Research Area and dissemination of results during the previous year and the work programme for the current year. Reporting on the implementation of the EDCTP Programme shall also be part of the regular progress report on the EC Programme for Action on Communicable Diseases in the context of poverty reduction. Justification It is necessary to evaluate the EDCTP programme in the context of its impact on the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis (EC Programme for Action on Communicable Diseases in the context of poverty reduction). Amendment 29 Annex, point 1 1. Activities linked to networking and coordination: 1. Activities