by the text set out in the Annex to this Decision. Article 2 This Decision shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States. Done at , For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President Annex "ANNEX I TRANS-EUROPEAN ENERGY NETWORKS Priority projects of European interest situated on the following priority axes as defined in Article 6a(2) ELECTRICITY NETWORKS France – Belgium – Netherlands – Germany: electricity networks reinforcements in order to resolve the frequent problems of congestion through the Benelux. EL.2. Borders of Italy with France, Austria and Switzerland: increasing electricity interconnection capacities. EL.3. France – Spain – Portugal : increasing electricity interconnection capacities between these countries and for the Iberian peninsula. EL.4. Greece – Balkan countries – UCTE System: development of electricity infrastructure to connect Greece to the UCTE System. EL.5. United Kingdom – continental Europe and Northern Europe establishing/increasing electricity interconnection capacities and the possible integration of offshore wind energy in the North Sea . EL.6. Ireland – Northern Ireland – United Kingdom establishing/increasing electricity interconnection capacities and the possible integration of offshore wind energy . EL.7. Denmark – Germany: increasing electricity interconnection capacity. GAS NETWORKS NG.1. United Kingdom – Netherlands – Germany – Russia: gas pipelines connecting the main sources of gas in Europe, improving the interoperability of the networks, and increasing the security of supply. NG.2. Algeria – Spain – France: construction of a new gas pipeline from Algeria to Spain and France, and increasing network capacities in Spain and France. NG.3. Caspian Sea countries – Middle East – European Union: new gas pipeline networks to the European Union from new sources, including the Greece-Turkey and Italy-Greece gas pipelines. NG.4. LNG terminals in France, Spain, Portugal, and Italy: diversifying sources of supply and entry points. NG.5. Underground storage in Spain, Portugal, and Greece: increasing capacity in Spain and construction of the first facilities in Portugal and Greece. ANNEX II TRANS-EUROPEAN ENERGY NETWORKS Projects of common interest ELECTRICITY NETWORKS (a) Developing electricity networks in island, isolated, peripheral and ultraperipheral regions while promoting the diversification of energy sources and the use of renewable energies, and connection of the electricity networks of those regions, if appropriate. (b) Developing electricity connections between the Member States where this is needed for the functioning of the internal market and in order to ensure the reliability and dependability of the operation of electricity networks. (c) Developing electricity connections within the Member States where this is needed in order to take advantage of the connections between the Member States, for the functioning of the internal electricity market or the connection of renewable energy sources. (d) Developing electricity connections with third countries, and more particularly with the accession candidate countries, thus contributing towards interoperability, the operational reliability and dependability of the electricity grids or the supply of electricity to the European Community. (m) Actions for improving the functioning of the interconnected electricity networks within the internal market and, in particular, identifying