prepared by the working group in the Council and they will be presented in the EU justice and interior ministers meeting on the 1 June 2006 Future of Europol, Option paper, reflecting the outcome of the discussion on the Future of Europol held during the Austrian Presidency, May 2006. at the latest. Europol's mandate has to be revised to make it more effectively operational and in order to improve cross-border police cooperation. It is, of course, of great importance for the stability of the organisation to improve and update its staff regulations as this would help to create a better working environment. However, your rapporteur believes that this proposal needs to be assessed in the more general context of the latest developments concerning Europol. This body, as mentioned above, is currently in the status of being reformed, and for good reasons. The European Parliament has insisted several times on the requisite of democratic control, data protection, transparency (access to documents) and accountability of Europol. So far these elements have not yet been addressed by the Council. The general reform of Europol will be very much supported by your rapporteur as far as it is going to address the above mentioned elements. However, for the time being, it does not seem consistent with our requests to draft an opinion on the initiative on which the Parliament is being consulted here. More transparency is needed in order to enhance Europol in its role as the EU's police cooperation office. Any future proposals on the future of Europol need to address the points developed below and only on that occasion can the European Parliament provide its opinion. Some elements are crucial for the Parliament and they can be used as good material for reflection: 1. The Europol convention's amending protocols: It is important to note that the original Europol convention signed on the 26 July 1995 has been amended by three protocols According to the Europol Convention (Art. 43 of the Europol Convention) have to be ratified by Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. , which until now have not been ratified by all Member States and consequently could not enter into force. These protocols intend to enhance Europol’s role as the central European law enforcement organisation. They addressed obstacles identified by Member States in their daily cooperation with Europol and the cooperation between Europol and Third partners The second protocol (Council Decision of 28 November 2002), for example, assigns Europol competences to participate in Joint Investigative Teams of the Member States and underlines and reinforces its role as a central coordination body for Member States’ investigations. The third protocol (“Danish protocol”, Council Decision of 27 November 2003) streamlines, among others, internal procedures which delayed Europol’s work in the past and at present, gives Europol the possibility to set up new data bases in order to facilitate its analysis work, facilitates the participation of Third partners in Europol’s analytical work and extends the rights of the European Parliament. . It is therefore surprising that Member States - which have shown their political