purpose the margin would need to be nearer 20%. In short, the Regulator must be asked whether he knew (or should have known) that Equitable Life’s assets did not cover the Director’s bonus declarations in any year after 1993. The Regulator would have known that terminal bonuses were used: a) to indicate policy values to members; b) to make payments on maturity or surrender; c) to encourage new policy sales through statements of past performance. Whilst he would be aware that from 1998 onwards the contractual liabilities included a provision for GAR cost, he would also have known that its effect was greatly reduced by the rather uncertain value of the reassurance policy with Irish European Reinsurance Company Limited." Penrose (WE 16) also supports the idea that prudent reserving would have exposed ELAS' weaknesses. He claims that the UK Regulator was focused exclusively on solvency margins and took no account of accrued terminal bonus, possibly breaching Article 18, which requires that supervision include verification of a company's entire business and not just its state of solvency. Penrose says that the directive "required prudent reserving for, or some realistic account to be taken of, final bonus. This would have exposed the weakness of the Society at a much earlier stage and would have prompted corrective action. DTI did not take that opportunity, taking the view instead that “some appropriate allowance should be made implicitly in the parameters of the system”. The UK regulations implementing the directive left the position as it had been previously." Penrose also criticises the regulator’s lack of a " pro-active approach". 29. Use of future profits to fulfil solvency margin not in line with Article 25 Mr. SEYMOUR claims in H7 that when the UK Regulator saw the extent of the problems at ELAS and discussions on the use of the insurance rescue fund started, the UK Regulator panicked (as this would have entailed a tax or levy on all other insurance companies to compensate ELAS policyholders) and to avoid this situation it "then approved a system of including five years of theoretical future profits to balance the books of a closed company – ELAS, thus rendering impossible access to the compensation fund. " He says this "makes nonsense of the whole concept of solvency" . In WE 54 (‘La Vie d’Or’, Case 98/2863 at the District Court of The Hague, date of pronouncement 13 June 2001), Mr. SEYMOUR (H7) explains how the plaintiff claims that "the inclusion of future profits in the balance sheet did not give a true picture of the assurance company’s solvency and was therefore contrary to the EU Life Directives. [...] It is important to note that the issue of the legality of future profits in terms of the EU Life Directives was raised." The Baird report's (WE 17) investigation into the issue of future profits also deserves close scrutiny. Quoting exchanges with the GAD, it says that " EU directives and UK legislation permit a value to be placed on the future profits of an insurance company. This is referred to as a