major international film prizes, such as the European Film Awards and the American Academy Awards; 30. Calls on the Member States and applicant countries to encourage the promotion of European films among the general public, including in less obvious fields, and thus to help bring about a general change of mentality on the part of the public; 31. Calls on the Commission to ensure that, in the current round of WTO negotiations, existing measures relating to the audiovisual content industry remain in force and the right is preserved to extend these measures to new services in order to attain the policy objectives of the EU and the Member States, which remain unchanged since the Uruguay Round in 1994; 32. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to encourage European airlines to show films produced in Europe during flights; 33. Calls on the Commission, further to its planned communication on certain legal aspects relating to cinematographic and other audiovisual works, to investigate to what extent introducing specific regulations on the film industry could help the applicant countries to develop their national film industries better and encourage the distribution of European films within their territory; 34. Calls on the Commission to investigate whether and to what extent the incorporation in the Treaty of a separate specific provision or protocol concerning the film and audiovisual industry and the cultural sector in general could take account of the specific nature of the industry; 35. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the governments and parliaments of the Member States and of the applicant countries. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Introduction European films are sometimes successful in their own country, but rarely manage to make a similar breakthrough in other countries. The dominance of American films is overwhelming. According to the European Audiovisual Observatory, the EU’s trade deficit for 1999 with regard to audiovisual programmes in relation to North America was € 6829 m. The market share of European films fell to 22.5% in 2000. Films from the USA took 73.7% of the market. In the mid-1960s, Europe’s market share was nearly three times its present size. The box office success of European films has gradually declined. Yet Europe produces more films than the USA. The European institutions and the Council of Europe have long been seeking solutions to this problem: The Council of Europe’s Eurimages programme has been in existence since 1989 and currently spends around € 20 m per annum on supporting coproduction and to a lesser extent distribution and cinemas. The EU’s MEDIA programme is crucial for the development of the audiovisual industry. However, because of inadequate funding (€ 400 m for MEDIA Plus, or 0.088% of the EU budget), it partly fails to achieve its potential impact. The i2i Audiovisual Initiative of the Commission and the EIB Group can promote the competitiveness of the audiovisual industry and the development of European content, if it responds flexibly to the particular character and needs of the industry. The Commission has also adopted a communication on certain legal aspects relating to cinematographic