interoperability. Sticking points were the date for liberalisation of the railways in the EU, the setting up of a railway safety system and the composition of the board of the railway agency. The most sensitive issue was Parliament's amendment calling for liberalisation of all rail freight services and combined goods services by 1 January 2006. However, the EP delegation compromised on this point and as a result of the agreement, national freight services will be liberalised from 1 January 2007. It had already been agreed at second reading that international freight services would be liberalised as of 1 January 2006. Regarding liberalisation of international passenger services , a date of 2010 was set as "an objective allowing all operators to prepare in an appropriate manner" . The Commission is in fact proposing this date for liberalisation of international passenger services in its third rail package. Following this conciliation agreement, the Commission will report by 1 January 2006 on the implementation of this directive and may bring forward fresh legislation. Proposals to liberalise national passenger services are expected at a later date. Turning to other aspects of the package, the Council accepted all Parliament's proposals regarding rail safety . Train drivers and other staff performing vital safety tasks will now be required to have an adequate command of the codes, vocabulary and language necessary for operations on the routes operated. And it was agreed that the aim of this directive is to gradually harmonise national safety rules and prevent the emergence of further barriers to an EU-wide rail system. With regard to interoperability , a mandatory recording device (black box), similar to those used on planes and ships, will be installed on trains. In order to achieve a compromise, Parliament agreed that the Administrative Board of the European Railway Agency should have 25 members from 1 May 2004, i.e. a representative from every Member State, even though Malta and Cyprus do not have railway systems. However, the composition of the board will be reconsidered later. And Parliament succeeded in its demand that the social partners should be represented on the board and on the relevant working parties of the agency. The report by Georg JARZEMBOWSKI (EPP-ED, D) on the development of the Community's railways was adopted with 387 votes in favour, 78 votes against and 6 abstentions, the report by Dirk STERCKX (ELDR, B) on railway safety was adopted with 406 votes in favour, 51 against and 6 abstentions. Gilles SAVARY (PES, F) and Sylviane AINARDI (EUL/NGL, F) saw their reports on establishing a European Railway Agency an on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional railway system also adopted by a large majority of MEPs. Press enquiries: Ton Huyssoon (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73856 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42408 e-mail : region-press@europarl.eu.int Improving safety at sea Dirk STERCKX (ELDR, B) Report on improving safety at sea (2003/2235(INI)) Doc.: A5-0257/2004 Procedure : Own-initiative Debate : 20.04.2004 Vote: 21.04.2004 Vote The European Parliament made a contribution to improving safety at sea by adopting a range of recommendations tabled by its Temporary Committee on Improving Safety at Sea