of analysts who are in direct contact with issuers . Therefore those analysts should be subject to a mandatory rotation mechanism. Justification Conflict of interests for analysts that are in frequent contact with issuers should be prevented. The rating committees are not in direct contact and have valuable sectoral expertise. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) In order to ensure the quality of ratings, a credit rating agency should take measures to ensure that the information it use in assigning a rating is reliable. For this purpose, a credit rating agency may envisage, among other elements reliance on independently audited financial statements and public disclosures; verification by reputable third party services; random sampling examination by the credit rating agency of the information received; or contractual provisions clearly stipulating liability for the rated entity or its related third parties, if the information provided under the contract is knowingly materially false or misleading or if the rated entity or its related third parties fail to conduct reasonable due diligence regarding the accuracy of the information as specified under the terms of the contract. (15) In order to ensure the quality of ratings, a credit rating agency should take measures to ensure that the information it uses in assigning a rating is reliable. The role of a credit rating agency is not to audit data produced and due diligence conducted by issuers and third parties, but rather it must satisfy itself that the sources that it relies upon justify that trust, for example, due to their professional independence or reputation. For this purpose, a credit rating agency may envisage, among other elements reliance on independently audited financial statements and public disclosures; verification by reputable third party services; random sampling examination by the credit rating agency of the information received; or contractual provisions in the transaction documents clearly stipulating liability for the rated entity or its related third parties, if the information provided under the contract is knowingly materially false or misleading or if the rated entity or its related third parties fail to conduct reasonable due diligence regarding the accuracy of the information as specified under the terms of the contract. Justification There is a need to avoid confusion over the role of rating agencies with respect to the due diligence conducted by other parties and on which the rating agencies rely. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 35 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (35) The stricter and clearer legal framework within which credit rating agencies will operate should also facilitate recourse to civil actions in respect of credit rating agencies in appropriate cases, in accordance with the applicable regimes of liability of the Member States. (35) This Regulation is without prejudice to national law governing the right of civil action in respect of credit rating agencies. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. This Regulation shall apply to credit ratings that are intended for use for regulatory purposes or otherwise by credit