and external communications, including electronic communications, received and sent by the credit rating agency and its employees, that relate to initiating, determining, maintaining, changing or withdrawing a credit rating. Justification The record keeping requirements under the current text are too vague and broad (for example, the reference to all "activity" would potentially include all aspects of a credit rating agency's business and operations). They should instead be replaced by more specific, detailed provisions that would provide clarity as to exactly what types of records should be maintained – consistent with other Community financial legislation. Amendment 1 59 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section C – point 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. An employee directly involved in the credit rating process shall not solicit or accept money, gifts or favours from anyone with whom the credit rating agency does business. 4. An employee or other person directly involved in the credit rating process shall not solicit or accept money, gifts or favours from anyone with whom the credit rating agency does business. Justification The scope of this provision should be widened. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section D – part I – point 3 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. A credit rating agency shall ensure that any credit rating states clearly and prominently any attributes and limitations of the credit rating. In particular, a credit rating agency shall prominently state in any credit rating whether it considers satisfactory the quality of information available on the rated entity and to what extent it has verified information provided to it by the rated entity or its related third party . If a credit rating involves a type of entity or financial instrument for which historical data is limited, the credit rating agency shall make clear, in a prominent place, the limitations of the credit rating. 3. A credit rating agency shall ensure that any credit rating states clearly and prominently any attributes and limitations of each credit rating. In particular, a credit rating agency shall adopt appropriate measures so that the information it uses in assigning a rating is of sufficient quality to support a credible rating . If a credit rating involves a type of entity or financial instrument for which historical data is limited, the credit rating agency shall make clear, in a prominent place, the limitations of the credit rating. Justification The provision in its current form would be difficult to implement in practice. Data verification obligations should remain with the entities that have first-hand knowledge of the information and the expertise to verify it, including through the use of third party auditors. Amendment 16 1 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section D – part I – point 3 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment In case where the lack of reliable data or the complexity of the structure of a new type of instrument or the quality of information available is not satisfactory or raises serious questions as to whether a credit