Question for written answer E-012337/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Klaus-Heiner Lehne (PPE) (5 January 2012) Subject: New rules on revenue recognition In June 2010, the IASB published an exposure draft concerning new rules on revenue recognition in the context of its balance sheet standards (ED/2010/6: Revenue from Contracts with Customers). In the light of the many critical comments received, the standard setters then published a revised draft on 14 November 2011 (ED/2011/6). The deadline for submitting comments during this public consultation is 13 March 2012. It is planned to present a final standard at the end of 2012 and the Commission will then have to carry out the endorsement procedure in accordance with the IAS Regulation. The draft makes provision for extensive changes in accounting for multiple-element arrangements. This applies especially to telecommunications companies whose business model is based on selling subsidised telephones together with the conclusion of a two-year telecommunications service contract. The current accounting standard limits revenue recognition for the pre-supplied telephones to the amount separately invoiced for these. Under the exposure draft, the future standard will, on the other hand, require total revenue (telephone plus service contract) to be broken down according to the relative current values of the separate elements. As a result, it would be necessary to disclose revenue and receivables for which there are no legally enforceable payment obligations at the time of performance. 1. What is the Commission’s opinion of these proposals by the London-based standard-setting body in the light of the principle of balance sheet accuracy and clarity? 2. In this context, can it be right to have to disclose revenue or receivables that are legally not yet even due and depend on the provision of other services by the accounting entity? 3. Is the Commission aware that the exposure draft opens up opportunities for manipulation, as preference may be given to declaring revenue and perhaps profit margins rather than during subsequent reporting periods if, for example, multiple-element contracts that provide for the free pre-delivery of products and services are signed with customers just before the close of the financial year? Does this not open the door to profit and balance sheet manipulation?