dealing with ATM at the European level. Amendment 42 Annex, Article 3, paragraph 2 2. The representatives referred to in points (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1 are designated by the Industry Consultation Body, set up in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 549/2004. 2. The European Parliament shall have observer status on the Administrative Board. Justification The addition concerns the role of the European Parliament in a "joint undertaking" of a public-private partnership. The Observer status to be granted to the European parliament is justified on two grounds: Parliamentary monitoring of a PPP involved in transforming research funding into a public service and fulfilment of its budgetary role on equal grounds with the Council. Amendment 43 Annex, Article 3, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Administrative Board shall be chaired by the Commission. Justification This is a necessary provision and is agreed on at the Council level. Amendment 44 Annex, Article 4, paragraph 1 1. The representatives referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article 3(1) shall have the right to vote . 1. All representatives referred to in Article 3(1) shall have a weighted vote in proportion to their contribution to the funds of the Joint Undertaking and subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 . Justification A new equilibrium of representation and weighting of votes are proposed and linked to the financial contribution of each representative in the Administrative Board. Amendment 45 Annex, Article 4, paragraph 2 2. The members of the Joint Undertaking shall have a number of votes in proportion to their contribution to the funds of the Joint Undertaking. However, the Community and Eurocontrol shall each have at least 30% of the total number of votes and the air passengers’ representative referred to in point (b) of Article 3(1) shall have at least 10% of the total number of votes. 2. Pursuant to paragraph 1, the members of the Joint Undertaking shall have a number of votes in proportion to their contribution to the funds of the Joint Undertaking. However, the Community and Eurocontrol shall each have at least 30% of the total number of votes and the airspace users ’ representative referred to in point (b) of Article 3(1) shall have at least 10% of the total number of votes . Justification This provides legal clarification. Amendment 46 Annex, Article 4, paragraph 5 5. Any decision relating to the accession of new members - within the meaning of paragraph 2 of Article 1 - the appointment of the Executive Director and the dissolution of the Joint Undertaking shall require the positive opinion of the Community’s representative on the Administrative Board. deleted Justification It follows from the rapporteur's amendment to Article 5 a (new) on accession of new members. Amendment 47 Annex, Article 4, paragraph 5 a (new) 5a. Decisions concerning the adoption of the ATM Master Plan and any relevant amendments to it shall require the favourable vote of all the founder members. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, such decisions may not be taken where the representatives referred