the Parliamentary Ombudsman reports on Equitable Life, and that is a real concern. ... My feeling is that, if a government can just ignore what is recommended with such impunity, it makes a total mockery of the ombudsman system. " Mr SCAWEN states in WE 23/2 Page 6. that " recent experience does not encourage confidence ". He added that " it is no help to us if there has been maladministration if at the end of the day, the Government takes no notice of the report and takes no action to compensate victims of its incompetence " (WE 23/2 Page 6. ). Similar concerns are expressed in WE-CONF 19 by Mr NEWMAN. Mr SEYMOUR (H7) referred to a newspaper article quoting Mr THOMSON who apparently said that he was 'not overly hopeful' that the Parliamentary Ombudsman's report would lead to compensation. In H8 Mr THOMSON explained his statement: " There are two preconditions to the payment of government compensation arising from the Parliamentary Ombudsman’s report: firstly that the Ombudsman should find maladministration leading to injustice to policyholders; and secondly that the Government accepts those findings and the recommendation for compensation. My comment reflected that the second does not automatically follow from the first ." The publication of the Ombudsman's report was originally foreseen for spring 2006 (see WE 12). Subsequently, publication of the report was postponed until the end of 2006. By letter of 16 October 2006, the Parliamentary Ombudsman announced a further delay, announcing that the report will not be published before May 2007 (see WE-FILE 19). 2. Judicial - proceedings before the court Aggrieved policyholders could also take legal action against the regulator before the UK courts. However, as Mr LAKE (H1) pointed out, " the obstacles in the way of ... a citizen obtaining redress in the UK courts are formidable ". " Against the regulator, the citizen must prove misfeasance, which is a very high hurdle ", he said. Likewise, Mr SEMOUR noted in H7 that " public bodies such as the regulator have Crown immunity from prosecution, and that action within the Member State against the Government for remedy would have to pass a high legal hurdle of proof of misfeasance ". " Misfeasance means effectively that the Government could do something wrong, and is not liable, unless it can be proven it was done maliciously. It is a major hurdle to get over " (Mr SEYMOUR, H7). In addition, Mr LAKE (H1) stressed that court action against the regulator would entail a considerable financial risk for aggrieved policyholders, similar to what has been noted above in relation to possible court proceedings against the Society. WE 44 by EMAG makes the following observation in this regard: " The British Government can be relied upon both to maximise its legal costs and to use every available appeal process - with the intimidating risk of the Government’s legal costs being awarded against complainants. Tens of millions of euros would be needed to sue the UK Government and this is evidenced by the cases of BCCI against the Bank