devised the management of Equitable Life didn’t already know full well that they were going to get people to sign away their rights based on a totally false prospectus, with the full knowledge of the FSA. Without a financial 'consideration' (however small) being offered to policyholders in return for giving up their rights to take legal action, the Compromise scheme would have been legally invalid. Yet in effect people were voting (although they didn’t know it) for a reduction in their funds and the removal of their right to sue the Society. The FSA allowed this to happen." Mr. BELLORD (H2) also underlined the alleged unfairness of the Compromise Scheme "approved by the regulators, where many policyholders lost their right to redress. Charles Thompson (EL CEO) must have known at the time of the court hearing in February 2002 that they had not got the money, but he failed to tell the court. These allegations were denied as "wrong and mischievous" in WE-CONF5, claiming that " the Compromise Scheme documents set out the position at that time in full detail." Another point that needs exploring is that the regulators recommended acceptance of this compromise." Mr. WEIR (WE6) claimed that " the FSA effectively recommended the Compromise as the best option for policyholders but was very careful not to publish this advice until 8 days after it had been granted immunity from scrutiny by the Parliamentary Ombudsman On becoming the single UK Regulator on 1 December 2002, the FSA was formally independent from government and thus also from PO scrutiny. ! By a very strange coincidence, on the date of the first Compromise hearing in the High Court (26 November 2001) the FSA chose that particular date of all dates to put out a sensational press release concerning the so-called ‘Headdon side letter’ thereby completely drowning out news coverage of the terms of the Compromise: a 'classic spoiler'. This is circumstantial evidence that the FSA was working closely with Equitable Life and probably the Treasury to railroad the Compromise through." In WE7 Mr. NASSIM claimed that " the list of elective omissions denotes regulatory failure before and after the Compromise, which was and remains knowingly deliberate ... The Compromise Scheme of arrangement was carried through to the detriment of members and with forfeiture of their legal rights." Mr. DEPPE in WE81 also presented allegations of " fraudulent misrepresentation made by Equitable in May 1999 ... Equitable had concealed the GAR liability and recommended the sale of with-profits annuities. The single and only focus from April 2001 was to sell their 'Compromise'." He further related how at a meeting of Equitable with policyholders the ELAS Chairman Mr. Treves " was asked by the late (EP-Petitioner) Arthur White to state that all matters of a fraudulent nature had been dealt with in advance of the judicial 'Compromise' application. Mr. Treves refused to give this undertaking and Mr. White asked him to note his request and ensure the presiding judge at the application was made aware the very real possibility of fraudulent behaviour could exist. Mr.