Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (20 February 2007) The Commission is very much aware of the trends in the prevalence of obesity in Europe and of the extent of the preventable morbidity and mortality which they entail and shares the concerns of the Honourable Member. Tackling obesity and promoting healthy diets and physical activity is already a priority for the Commission. The EU Platform for Action on Diet, Physical Activity, and Health was established in March 2005 and brings together European and multilateral actors, non-governmental health organisations, representatives of the food, catering and beverage industries, retailers, advertising and marketing experts and consumer groups to agree on voluntary measures aimed at reducing obesity and increasing physical activity. Among the commitments that have been made by some members of the Platform is the promotion of the voluntary inclusion of nutrition information on food labels. At the moment, under Council Directive 90/496/EEC Council Directive 90/496/EEC of 24 September 1990 on nutrition labelling for foodstuffs, OJ L 276, 6.10.1990. , nutrition labelling is voluntary unless a nutrition related claim is made, in which case it becomes mandatory. If nutrition labelling is included, then the minimum amount of information to be given is the content of energy, protein, carbohydrate and fat which can be extended to include the amount of saturated fat, sugars, dietary fibre and sodium and other nutrients depending on the nature of the nutrition related claim made on the product. In spring 2006, there was a public consultation on a wide range of labelling issues, including nutrition labelling. The Commission is taking into consideration the outcome of the consultation and assessing the options for the revision of the legislation. It is expected that a proposal to the Parliament and the Council will be adopted around the end of 2007. In addition, following on from the consultation on the Green Paper ‘Promoting healthy diets and physical activity: a European dimension for the prevention of overweight, obesity and chronic diseases’ COM(2005)637 final. , the Commission intends to adopt in 2007 proposals for a European strategy in nutrition and physical activity in the form of a White Paper. In it, the Commission will put forward a comprehensive range of actions at EU level that can contribute to tackling the rising prevalence of obesity.