well as with rules on the use of seat belts and helmets noting that these, primarily fall within the competence of the Member States but are in urgent need of coordination and dissemination of best practice; especially welcomes the Recommendation of the European Commission of 17 January 2001 of a maximum alcohol level of 0.5 mg/ml OJ L 43, 14.2.2001, p. 31. and urges all Member States to adopt this maximum limit; urges Member States to implement swiftly the Commission's Recommendation of 6 April 2004 on enforcement Police enforcement of rules covering speeding, drink driving and the use of seat belt alone can help avoid 6 000 fatalities and 14 000 injuries by 2010, according to Commission estimates. ; calls on the Commission to monitor the implementation of the Recommendation and, as necessary, to lend support to Member States which do not succeed in implementing the Recommendation; calls on the Commission to report, in its mid-term review of the Action Programme, on the level of implementation; calls on the Commission, on the basis of this evaluation, to propose the necessary legislative measures of a binding nature in the area of maximum alcohol levels (in line with the European Parliament recommendation of 0.5 mg/ml for adults and 0.2mg/ml for novice drivers) and the use of safety-belts; 22. Is aware that cross-border enforcement of road traffic law remains very unsatisfactory owing to the lack of any uniform system by means of which the authorities of one Member State are able to prosecute offenders from other Member States An illustration of this is that in its first four months of operation, approximately 25% of the violations recorded by the French national speed enforcement system, which started in 2003, were committed by vehicles registered outside France (VERA 2 2004:1), while these vehicles represent only 10% of the overall traffic. urges the Commission to outline a proposal for a workable Community-wide campaign to ensure that drivers obey road traffic rules in whichever Member State they are driving; urges the Commission to outline a proposal for a workable Community-wide approach to enable the Member States to follow up offences and penalties imposed; notes that, as regards financial penalties, both the basis for possible legislation Council Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA of 24 February 2005 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to financial penalties (OJ L 76, 22.3.2005, p. 16). and the necessary framework for an information exchange system EUCARIS is a system based on a multilateral treaty of 29 June 2000. It is an infrastructure through which participating countries can search databases of other countries which hold driving licence and/or vehicle information (www.eucaris.com). RESPER is the Driving Licence network being set up the Commission and Council to share information and data on all European Driving Licences. have been prepared; 23. Welcomes the idea of introducing compulsory harmonised pictograms on medical packaging, based on the European classification of drugs according to their effects; 24. Points out the danger of blind spots; calls for rapid, low-cost measures for the fitting of lorries with mirrors to eliminate blind spots; calls