Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (22 June 2007) The Commission can provide little authoritative response as regards Greece's strategies of exploitation of domestic natural gas and oil resources. It should be noted that existing EU legislation (most notably Directive 94/22/EC Directive 94/22/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 1994 on the conditions for granting and using authorisations for the prospection, exploration and production of hydrocarbons, OJ L 164 , 30.6.1994. ) explicitly reserves for the Member States full sovereignty and sovereign rights over hydrocarbon resources on their territories. Moreover, Member States alone retain the right to determine the areas within their territory to be made available for the exercise of the activities of prospecting, exploring for and producing hydrocarbons. The Commission is also, therefore, not in the position to declare whether Greek deposits are located outside or inside the limit of territorial waters. Such a question should be addressed rather to the competent Greek authorities. It should be also noted that while EU targets do exist e.g. as regards electricity generation from renewable sources (cf. Directive 2001/77/EC Directive 2001/77/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2001 on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market, OJ L 283, 27.10.2001. and the new renewable energy targets agreed at the European Council of 8 and 9 March 2007), no similar targets exist with respect to the proportion of energy to be procured from domestic and indigenous resources. Taking the above into consideration, the Commission is not in a position to require utilisation of indigenous energy resources of the Member States; no Commission representations to Greek authorities to this effect have been under consideration. The Community is a signatory to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and so are all the Member States. The Commission is not aware of the Convention not being applied by any particular Member State.