Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (1 February 2011) The Commission is aware of concerns raised by holders of pilot licences issued by third countries. Current EU legislation Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 February 2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency, and repealing Council Directive 91/670/EEC, Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and Directive 2004/36/EC (Text with EEA relevance), OJ L 79, 19.3.2008. as adopted by the Parliament and the Council on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency mandates the Commission to regulate the issue of third country licences for pilots residing in the European Union (EU). Pilots residing in the EU and involved in the operation of an aircraft into the EU need to comply with European licensing requirements. These may be satisfied either by specific rules or by the acceptance of licences issued by third countries in case of operating non‑EU‑registered aircraft. The Commission's proposal for the regulation on flight crew licensing (pilots) largely reproduces the standards commonly applied in Member States and developed previously by the International Civil aviation Authority (ICAO) and the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA). Based on the opinion issued by EASA on 26 August 2010, the Commission's proposal was discussed on 7-8 December in the Committee established by Article 65 of Regulation No 216/2008 (‘EASA Committee’). The Committee unanimously agreed on a slightly modified text of the regulation on 8 December 2010. The modified text proposes a transitional period until April 2014 for pilots flying in the EU with third-country licences (e.g. licences issued by the US Federal Aviation Authority). This time will allow for further discussions on the recognition of non-EU licenses within the framework of bilateral aviation safety agreements between the EU and third countries. Such agreements have already been signed with the United States, Canada and Brazil but have not yet entered into force. Once these agreements enter into force, the necessary work can be done towards an agreement on simplified conditions for mutual acceptance of pilot licences issued by those third countries.