Answer given by Ms Damanaki on behalf of the Commission (17 June 2010) The Commission has contacted the persons responsible for the publication on fishsubsidy.org in order to clarify to which programming period the information concerning fishing vessel owners convicted of serious infringements was linked. It appears that this information covers the period from 2001 to 2009. The data reported on fishsubsidy.org refer therefore to the 2000‑06 and 2007‑13 programming periods. The legal obligations of the Member States for these two programming periods are different. However, for both programming periods, EU assistance is allocated under a shared management system whereby it is the Member States who bear the responsibility of establishing the selection criteria of the projects as well as the responsibility of selecting the beneficiaries of financial assistance. Regaring the programming period 2000‑06 (Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance), Article 18 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 laying down detailed rules and arrangements regarding Community structural assistance in the fisheries sector OJ L 337, 30.12.1999 . , provides that the managing authority: ‘[it] shall satisfy itself as to the technical capacity of beneficiaries and the financial viability of firms as well as their respecting all rules of Common Fisheries Policy before granting aid.’ During the closure of the programmes for 2000‑06, the Commission will pay particular attention where allocation of financial aid is linked to irregularities and will apply financial corrections according to the rules and conditions set in the regulatory framework. Similarly, in Council Regulation (EC) No 1198/2006 of 27 July 2006 on the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) OJ L 223, 15.8.2006 . for the programming period 2007‑13, it is clearly stated that Member States must respect the objectives of the EFF Regulation such as support to the common fisheries policy, promotion of a sustainable balance between resources and the fishing capacity of the Community fishing fleet, and fostering the protection and enhancement of the environment and natural resources when related to the fisheries sector. In addition, according to Article 6 of the EFF Regulation, Member States must ensure that the assistance from the EFF is consistent with the policies, priorities and activities of the EU. Clearly, giving the EFF aid to vessel owners convicted of serious infringements is contradictory to these objectives and provisions. It is the responsibility of the Member States who select the beneficiaries for financial assistance under EFF to ensure this consistency and to make the link between the requests for financial assistance received (for national regimes or for EU aid) and the vessels carrying out illegal fishing activities. Council Regulation (EC) No 1005/2008 establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing OJ L 286, 29.10.2008 . , which entered into force on 1 January 2010, introduces more precise legal obligations and sanction mechanisms, designed to avoid the financing of fishing vessels carrying out illegal fishing activities. It also provides more means to identify the legal and natural persons involved in such activities and to support exchange of information between the Member States and the Commission in that respect. Article