rating agencies that have their head office in the Community for a proportion of their ratings . Amendment 46 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. A credit rating agency shall ensure that the issuance of a credit rating is not affected by any existing or potential conflict of interest or business relationship involving the credit rating agency issuing the credit rating, its managers, employees or any person directly or indirectly linked to it by control. 1. A credit rating agency shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the issuance of a credit rating is not affected by any existing or potential conflict of interest or business relationship involving the credit rating agency issuing the credit rating, its managers, rating analysts, employees or any other natural person whose services are placed at the disposal or under the control of the credit rating agency or any person directly or indirectly linked to it by control. Justification The text of the regulation should provide specific criteria for exemption of credit rating agencies with small number of employees from compliance with certain obligations under the proposed regulation following certain criteria. Amendment 47 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. A credit rating agency shall disclose the nature of its compensation arrangements as regards rated entities. Amendment 48 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1b. A credit rating agency shall appoint a person responsible for the compliance of the credit rating agency an d its employees with this Regulation . Amendment 49 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1c. A credit rating agency shall separate , legally and operationally , its credit rating business from its ancillary services . The Commission shall define such ancillary services. Th at measure , designed to amend non-essential elements of this Regulation by supplementing it, shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 33 (2) . Amendment 50 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. In order to ensure compliance with paragraph 1 , the credit rating agency shall comply with the requirements set out in Sections A and B of Annex I. 2. In order to ensure compliance with paragraph s 1 , 1a, 1b , and 1c, the credit rating agency shall comply with the requirements set out in Sections A and B of Annex I. Amendment 51 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2a. The CESR may, upon the request of the credit rating agency, exempt a credit rating agency from the requirements of Article 6(4) or of point 2 of Section A of Annex I where th at credit rating agency is able to demonstrate that those requirements are not proportionate to the nature, scale and