therefore, by the reason of the Community-wide scope of this Regulation , be better achieved at Community level, the Community may , in principle, adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty . (13) However, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as also set out in Article 5 of the Treaty, no further notification or authorisation requirements should be introduced if they unduly restrict Member States in their scope for action and go beyond the general provisions already laid down by law. (14) To enable a coordinated, focused approach to be adopted to the negotiation of Community air service agreements with third countries, a three-stage plan should be laid down. In the first stage the Commission should negotiate a Community agreement on an open aviation area with the United States. Community air service agreements should thereafter be negotiated and concluded with third countries which likewise have or are seeking to achieve a liberalised air transport market. At the third stage it should be determined in each individual case whether a Community agreement with a third country would constitute added value for the Member States. (15) Negotiations relating to the conclusion of a Community agreement on an open aviation area with the United States should address the implementation of the "polluter pays" principle, as laid down in Article 174(2) of the Treaty. (16) Negotiations on a Community agreement on an open aviation area with the United States should also ensure the elimination of direct or indirect subsidies to United States air carriers, which distort the market to the detriment of Community carriers, HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 Notification to the Commission 1. In the absence of official Community negotiations with a third country, or where a Community agreement exists, but does not address all the issues , a Member State may, without prejudice to the respective competences of the Community and its Member States, enter into negotiations with that country concerning a new agreement or the modification or application of an existing aviation agreement, its annexes or any other related bilateral or multilateral arrangement. Not later than one calendar month before they begin, the Commission shall inform Member States that official negotiations are to be opened. 2. Where a Member State acts pursuant to paragraph 1, it shall inform the Commission in writing, forward a copy of the agreement concerned and indicate the provisions to be addressed in the negotiations , the objectives of the negotiations , and any other relevant information. In principle, the notification should be sent one calendar month before contact is established with the third country concerned. 3. The Commission may make comments to the Member State which has notified its intentions in accordance with paragraph 2 . 4. Upon conclusion of the negotiations, the Member State concerned shall notify the Commission of the draft agreement and any other relevant documentation. Article 2 Consultation of stakeholders and participation in negotiations In so far as air carriers or other stakeholders are to be involved in the negotiations referred