Answer given by Mr Patten on behalf of the Commission (14 May 2003) The Commission would refer the Honourable Member to its reply to Written Question E-454/03 by Mr Graham Watson See page 18. , concerning the persecution of Christians in Vietnam. As far as the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam is concerned the Honourable Member may know that the situation has recently evolved. Most notably, its Supreme Patriarch, Venerable Thich Huyen Qang, has been received by Vietnam's Prime Minister Phan Van Khai. The Commission is aware that the recent events do not automatically entail a change with regard to the legal status of the Unified Buddhist Church of Vietnam, which remains banned in the country. The Commission will continue to monitor closely the developments, but considers that these latest gestures of the Government of Vietnam are an encouraging step towards enhanced tolerance of freedom of religion. The Union's policy towards Vietnam, and indeed to all countries, is to encourage and support continued progress on human rights and democratisation, and to raise concerns where any abuses or a deterioration in the situation is observed. The Community-Vietnam Co-operation Agreement, which was signed in 1995, states in its first Article that respect for human rights and democratic principles is the basis of our co-operation. This reference constitutes the enabling framework for the Human Rights dialogue of the Commission with the Government of Vietnam, for instance in the context of Joint Commission meetings. The Commission, together with the Member States represented in Vietnam, therefore monitors closely human rights developments in Vietnam as part of the policy of the Union to encourage and support the continued commitment of the Government of Vietnam to make progress in the field of human rights. The Commission also participates with the Member States in the regular dialogue with and in all démarches to the Government of Vietnam on human rights issues. The Union, Commission and Member states, have repeatedly urged the Government of Vietnam to strengthen its respect for political and religious freedoms, to further strengthen economic and social freedoms and to create a legal framework for a supportive environment to allow the development of a strengthened civil society, from which Vietnam would greatly benefit. Commission and Member states have expressed these requests in their joint declaration at the Consultative Group meeting in Hanoi in December 2002. The May 2001 Commission Communication on the Union's Role in Promoting Human Rights and Democratisation in Third Countries confirmed that the Commission would take action to enhance the positive impact of Community assistance programmes on respect for human rights and democratisation by — inter alia — taking performance in the area of human rights (including social, economic and cultural rights) into account when deciding country allocations under the main co-operation programmes. In addition to the explanations given in the reply to Written Question E-454/03 , referred to above, the Commission would like to draw the attention of the Honourable Member to the fact that an exploratory mission of the Commission has now been sent to Vietnam to look at possibilities, involving inter alia