women candidates by the parties so that they can take up political life with full confidence; 4. Urges the Member States to seek actively to reach a more balanced participation of women and men in all the EU institutions; 5. Welcomes the Commission's intention to present a proposal for a Fifth Action Programme on Equal Opportunities; 6. Recalls that gender mainstreaming is a long-term transformative strategy which involves large-scale re-education about policy design and delivery and that it should be used to complement positive action measures ; 7. Notes the Commission's intention to promote women's participation in its committees and working groups and its commitments to increase the number of women in decision-making within its administration; 8. Calls on the Commission to make it a priority to improve the statistical data base to establish and maintain a full set of regularly updated statistics on women in decision-making throughout the EU; 9. Concludes that both men and women are necessary in the decision-making process while the special qualities of both sexes are complementary, which can only lead to better management; 10. Calls on the Member States to promote training for executives and leaders - men as well as women - in order to promote non-discriminatory working relationships; 11. Calls on the Member States to introduce capacity development with government agencies with a view to advancing career development for women; 12. Calls on the social partners to promote balanced participation by women and men in positions of responsibility and decision-making and, in order to achieve this, to take the necessary steps in the recruitment and professional training of their representatives in the various bodies of the social dialogue; 13. Calls on the Commission to use the existing Treaty provisions to encourage governments to develop and implement policies and programmes to establish gender balance in decision-making bodies and in the bodies and delegations involved in the enlargement process; 14. Calls on Member States to increase the number of women participating in peace-keeping, peace-making, peace-building and conflict-preventing activities with which Member States collaborate; instructs its competent committee to pay special attention to the role of women in these fields, and to make recommendations towards the mainstreaming of gender considerations into all aspects of conflict resolution; 15. Expects that the position defined by the European Union and the NGOs will play an important role in the forthcoming UN Conference on the follow-up of the Platform for Action " Beijing plus five " in New York next June and that this will be decisively implemented by governments in order to fulfil their commitments through concrete measures; 16. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the other EU institutions and bodies, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States.