fees are levied compulsorily on each of the 33,000 or more firms we regulate according to a series of objective formulae and measures. The FSA staff who supervise firms have no policy or operational involvement in the fee-levying process, which is managed by a separate organisational function within FSA with a separate management reporting line through to the FSA board ." In relation to the protection of consumers in general and ELAS policyholders in particular Mr STRACHAN (H4) pointed out the following: " The FSA provides full information for consumers about its objectives, plans, policies and rules. Consumers have access to the FSA through its Consumer Helpline [and] our website is a further important source of assistance for consumers, providing comprehensive information specifically for them on financial products, regulation and their rights. Recognising the importance of issues surrounding Equitable Life, and the large number of policyholders involved, this website brings together information relevant to Equitable Life policyholders " (Mr STRACHAN, H4). Furthermore, he noted that " we have taken initiatives for the benefit of Equitable policyholders since the closure of new business ." In this respect he referred in particular to the FSA's exercise of influence on ELAS when the compromise scheme was devised (see section IV.2.) In summary, individual complaints to FSA did not result in redress for aggrieved policyholders. 1. The Baird Report EMAG informed the committee that the large number of complaints led the FSA to set up an internal inquiry (WE 14 Page 28. ). The inquiry was conducted under the leadership of its Director for Internal Audit, Mr Ronnie Baird, in order to determine if the FSA had failed during the 23-month period of its supervision immediately prior to the closure of ELAS to new business. Mr BRAITHWAITE pointed out in H11 that it was precluded from looking at the period of primary negligence from 1990 to 1998. Nor did the inquiry address the question of possible redress for policyholders' grievances. 2. The Penrose Report Policyholders also complained to HM Treasury according to EMAG's petition (WE 14 Page 29. ). In August 2001, HM Treasury set up an inquiry under senior judge Lord Penrose. His terms of reference were to inquire into the circumstances leading to the Equitable Life crisis and to identify lessons to be learned for the conduct, administration and regulation of life assurance business. However, his inquiry (and thus the report published on 8 March 2004) did not address two questions, namely, who is at fault for the problems encountered by the Society and who deserves compensation as a consequence (WE 16 Page 744. ). On the latter issue, Lord Penrose notes that he had " invited individual policyholders to assist [him] by formulating their claims in order to ... help form a view about the potential liabilities of the Society ... " and that the information thus received " made clear that very substantial claims were involved " (WE 16 Page 744. ). However, Lord Penrose emphasises that he " cannot adjudicate on the policyholders' complaints " and states that " the expectation