the White Paper makes clear the need to establish an overall information and communication policy, based on pluralism and respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, to inform Europe's citizens about all aspects of the Union. In the cause of greater transparency and openness, the Council could set a good example by publishing full records of how individual Member States vote and by granting public access to its meetings. Given that the Union will soon expand to include societies which have only recently emerged from decades of totalitarianism, greater transparency within the Union and the development of an effective information and communication policy should be regarded as matters of urgency. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. Welcomes the White Paper commitment to substantial reform and modernisation, particularly its commitment to transparency, openness and a greater level of democracy; 2. Supports wider consultation with civil society; notes the role that the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee might play in facilitating such consultation; but underlines that, as the only Community institution which is democratically-elected, it is the ideal conduit in the consultation process; 3. Supports the Commission in its statement that 'the greater the participation in European policies of national and regional actors, the more they will be prepared to inform the public about those policies'; 4. Stresses that a more widespread use of 'co-regulatory mechanisms' and 'open methods of coordination' as part of a 'better regulation' will require the prior consent of the European Council and the European Parliament and an interinstitutional agreement and must be actively monitored and controlled by the European Parliament; 5. Agrees that policy-making must be more flexible; welcomes the attention given in the White Paper to better implementation of policy and more clearly-defined powers and roles for EU regulatory agencies which will only be effective if they are limited in number; in addition a root and branch assessment of the various policy-making instruments should also take place to ensure that EU decisions are made and implemented in the most appropriate and effective way; 6. Applauds the emphasis on public hearings and partnership arrangements as tools to improve information and communication, which will have to take place at an early stage in the drawing-up of legislation in a systematic fashion if they are not to undermine the Commission's stated intention of accelerating the legislative process; 7. Welcomes the commitment in the White Paper to the identification of long-term policy objectives and its proposals on multi-annual policy agendas; 8. Welcomes the proposal to draw up and publish minimum standards for consultation and guidelines for taking expert advice; 9. Reiterates its conviction that a European information and communications policy based on the principles of pluralism, openness and diversity would strengthen public debate and awareness - especially among young people - of the benefits of European co-operation within the framework of the EU; believes that the key principles of the