downed in the following weeks, D. whereas no official high-level meetings have taken place between Georgian and Abkhaz representatives under UN auspices since October 2007; whereas new proposals have been put forward by the Georgian authorities for the resolution of the conflict, including broad political representation at the highest level of the Georgian government, granting veto rights on all major legislation related to Abkhazia, and international guarantees to ensure broad federalism and unlimited autonomy and security, E. whereas Georgia has taken official steps calling for the revision of the current peacekeeping format or the replacement of the Russian peacekeeping contingent now deployed in Abkhazia, F. whereas on 15 May 2008 the UN General Assembly passed a resolution calling for progress in the return of internal displaced people to Abkhazia and urging all countries to refrain from purchasing assets located in Abkhaz territory, G. whereas the Tbilisi authorities have suspended bilateral talks with Moscow on Russia's accession to the WTO in protest at the Russian decision to step up cooperation with the self-proclaimed republics of Abkhazia and South Ossetia; whereas the Russian ban on imports of Georgian wine and agriculture goods is still in place, H. whereas, despite the efforts made to conduct Georgia's elections in line with international standards, the International Election Observation Mission to the Georgian parliamentary elections of 21 May 2008 identified some problems making implementation uneven and incomplete, I. whereas every effort should be made by the EU to help Georgia continue its pace of reform and develop a fully functioning democracy; whereas the ENP Action Plan provides Georgia with the opportunity to get closer to the EU and embrace and share its founding values, 1. Expresses its deep concern at the escalation of the situation in Abkhazia, and calls on all parties to refrain from actions that could further destabilise the situation; calls for renewed international efforts to bring the parties back to dialogue and restart the peace process with a view to reaching a lasting and comprehensive settlement; 2. Deplores the decision of the Moscow authorities to establish official links with the de facto authorities of the Georgian breakaway republics and the unilateral decision to increase the numbers of Russian peacekeeping troops in Abkhazia, thus aggravating the already tense situation; 3. Reaffirms its full support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia, and calls on the Russian authorities to fully respect the sovereignty of that country within its internationally recognised borders; 4. Takes the view that the present peacekeeping format must be revised, since the Russian troops have lost their role of neutral and impartial peacekeepers, and calls for a deeper European involvement in the frozen conflicts in order to move the peace processes forward; 5. Calls, in this regard, on the Council and Commission to firmly raise this issue with their Russian counterparts at the forthcoming EU-Russia summit and during the negotiations on a new strengthened partnership agreement, and urges the Russian authorities not to oppose an eventual ESDP mission in the region, including an EU presence in civilian and military peacekeeping operations; 6. Urges