out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. (15) In the absence of a competent Union electoral authority, it is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories, each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks , which may be based on random sampling, and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. Justification It should be made clear that Member States check the signatures even if it is a European citizens' initiative, because there is no competent Union electoral authority that could do that exercise. Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (16) Organisers should ensure that all the relevant conditions set out in this Regulation are met prior to submitting a citizens' initiative to the Commission. deleted Justification It is superfluous to mention in a recital that the obligations set out by a Regulation should be met in order to reach the desired legal effect. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Recital 17 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (17) The Commission should examine a citizens' initiative and set out its conclusions and the actions it envisages to take in response to it, within a period of four months . (17) The Commission should examine a citizens' initiative and respond to it in a clear, comprehensible and detailed manner and within a time frame corresponding to its handling of legislative initiatives of the European Parliament under Article 225 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union . Thus, as a first step, the Commission should receive the organisers within three months and inform them of how it intends to act. As a second step, the European Commission should organise a public hearing jointly with the European Parliament, through its responsible committee, with a representative of the Commission in attendance as the main addressee. As a third step, the Commission should come forward with its final response to the initiative after one year, either by proposing legislation accordingly or by explaining in a detailed manner its reasons for not acting on the initiative. The Commission should also give a thorough explanation in the event that the legislative proposal diverges significantly from the citizens' initiative. Justification The Commissions' reaction to a move by European citizens should be both legally and politically justified. Furthermore, this should be demonstrated by a reasoning showing that the citizens' voice is heard and the possible action to be taken is seriously and thoroughly thought-out. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Recital 18 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (18) Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on