Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (1 February 2012) The scope of activities funded under the ENPI is much broader than just Cross-Border Cooperation (CBC) programmes, which account for not more than 5 % of the ENPI budget CBC programmes are however reinforced by additional funding coming from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and account for additional 50 % of the funds. . It should also be noted that it was a Polish proposal to provide the Managing Authority in the Poland-Belarus-Ukraine programme and Lithuania -Poland-Russia- programme. The overall assessment of the use of the ENPI funds in the ENPI CBC programme Poland-Belarus-Ukraine is good and the Commission is confident that the programme will positively contribute to its main objectives namely, the increase of competitiveness of the border area; the improvement of the quality of life and the establishment of networking and people-to-people cooperation. The programme (total EU allocation is EUR 186.201 million) has so far organised two calls for proposals. Under the first call for proposals, 21 projects have been selected for a total amount of EUR 17 million. Eight of these projects have been contracted to date. These projects aim at improving access to the eligible area and at promoting its tourism attractiveness as well as strengthening its environmental protection. In September 2011 the programme closed its second call for proposals (total allocation of EUR 88 million); 506 proposals were submitted. The selection process is ongoing. There remains at least one more call for proposals under the programme, as well as Large Scale Projects (aiming mainly at renovating or building of border crossing points), which will require EUR 45 million. The programme is progressing as expected and should be able to commit properly all of its allocation within the scheduled time-limit. Regarding disbursements, so far the EU has paid EUR 46 million to the programme. The programme is expected to be continued in the next financial period 2014-2020. The Lithuania-Poland-Russia Programme (total EU allocation of EUR 132.13 million and Russian co-financing of EUR 43.9 million) has closed its first call for proposals. This call has a total allocation of EUR 61 million. A list of preselected projects has now been proposed to the approval of the Joint Monitoring Committee. From the beginning of the CBC programming, the EU and the Managing authorities of the programmes have conducted information campaigns about the calls for proposals launched and their procedures. Seminars and informative or consultative events are regularly taking place since the first years of preparation and implementation of all programmes. Local authorities have been included in all activities from the start. Trainings, seminars and conferences for programme participants are held regularly, both on central as well as local level, on topics requested by the programmes’ authorities. Cross-border cooperation is meanwhile an established component of the European Neighbourhood Policy and its extension with the next financial perspective (2014-2020) is therefore proposed by the Commission.