signatures shall be respected. If the necessary signatures are not collected within the time limit, the initiative is not successful; therefore it should be deleted from the register which contains only ongoing initiatives. Amendment 3 9 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories, the organiser shall ensure that the online collection system used for that purpose complies with the provisions of paragraph 4. The organiser may, at any time, ask the relevant competent authority of the Member State in which the data collected is or will be stored, to certify that the online collection system complies with those provisions. The organiser shall, in any case, request that certification prior to submitting statements of support for verification in accordance with Article 9 . 2. Prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories, the organisers shall ensure that the online collection system used for that purpose complies with the provisions of paragraph 4. The organisers may, at any time, ask the relevant competent authority of the Member State in which the data collected is or will be stored, to certify that the online collection system complies with those provisions. The organisers shall, in any case, request that certification prior to starting the collection of statements of support. The organiser shall make a copy of the certificate issued in that regard publicly available on the website used for the online collection system. Within six months following the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall make available open-source software incorporating some of the technical and security features necessary for compliance with the provisions of this Regulation regarding the online collection systems. and ensure the maintenance and further development of that open - source software. The software and the relevant support services shall be made available to the organisers free of charge . The Commission shall inform the European Parliament of the state of progress in the creation of the open-source software no later than three months after the entry into force of this Regulation. Justification The online collection of signatures should be facilitated by the Commission by making available an open-source software. It is more appropriate to request the certificate for online collection systems prior, and not after, the collection of signatures. Moreover, this certificate should be made public on the website so that citizens know that they can trust the system. Amendment 40 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment b. the identity of the person can be verified; b. the fact that each person submits only one statement can be verified; Justification The identity of a person is not needed for the purpose of verifying the authenticity of statements of support. It is sufficient to check that the person is eligible to sign and signed only once. The fact that a certain person can sign only once should be verified in the case of online signatures as well.