Alan, Andrikienė Laima Liucija, Howitt Richard, Angourakis Charalampos, Toussas Georgios, Czarnecki Ryszard - to the Commission: Blinkevičiūtė Vilija, Harkin Marian, Siekierski Czesław Adam, Tarabella Marc, Ţicău Silvia-Adriana, Chountis Nikolaos, Iacolino Salvatore, Morkūnaitė-Mikulėnienė Radvilė, Papastamkos Georgios, Paleckis Justas Vincas, Andrikienė Laima Liucija, Van Brempt Kathleen, Tsoukalas Ioannis A., Papanikolaou Georgios, Gallagher Pat the Cope, Kelly Seán, Higgins Jim, Aylward Liam, Ludford Sarah, Merkies Judith A., Kelly Alan, Posselt Bernd, Crowley Brian, Howitt Richard, McGuinness Mairead, Zwiefka Tadeusz, Jensen Anne E., Angourakis Charalampos, Martin David, Hadjigeorgiou Takis, Szymański Konrad, Toussas Georgios, Czarnecki Ryszard 3.2) motions for resolution (Rule 120) - Sebastian Valentin Bodu. Motion for a resolution on setting up a European Customs Agency ( B7-0530/2010 ) referred to responsible: IMCO - Alain Cadec. Motion for a resolution on a European strategy for the Atlantic Arc ( B7-0531/2010 ) referred to responsible: REGI opinion: ENVI 15 Order of business The next item was the order of business. The final draft agenda for the September II 2010 sittings (PE 446.632/PDOJ) had been distributed and a number of changes had been proposed (Rule 140): Monday A request was made by the S&D Group to remove from the agenda the short presentation of the report by Marielle Gallo (item 46 on the final draft agenda) . The following spoke: Martin Schulz , on behalf of the S&D Group , who moved the request, Marielle Gallo (rapporteur) , against the request, and Daniel Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group , in favour of the request. Parliament rejected the request by electronic vote (117 in favour, 185 against, 4 abstentions). Tuesday No changes. Wednesday No changes. Thursday A request was made by the ECR Group to postpone the vote on the motion for a resolution on failures in protection of human rights and justice in the Democratic Republic of Congo (item 73 on the final draft agenda) . The following spoke: Philip Bradbourn , on behalf of the ECR Group , who moved the request, Rebecca Harms , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group , in favour of the request, and Francesco Enrico Speroni , on behalf of the EFD Group , against the request. Parliament agreed to the request by electronic vote (158 in favour, 127 against, 11 abstentions). ° ° ° ° The order of business was thus established. The following spoke: Joseph Daul . 16 Investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation ***I (debate) Report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on investigation and prevention of accidents and incidents in civil aviation [ 2009/0170(COD) ] - Committee on Transport and Tourism. Rapporteur: Christine De Veyrac ( A7-0195/2010 ) Christine De Veyrac introduced the report. The following spoke: Jörg Leichtfried on the background noise in the Chamber during Christine De Veyrac's speech. The following spoke: Cecilia Malmström (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Werner Kuhn , on behalf of the PPE Group, Brian Simpson , on behalf of the S&D Group, Jelko Kacin , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Eva Lichtenberger