by "Yes", "No", or "I abstain". In calculating whether a motion has been adopted or rejected account shall be taken only of votes cast for and against. The President shall establish the result of the vote and announce it. Votes shall be recorded in the minutes of the sitting by political group in the alphabetical order of Members' names, with an indication of how they voted. Rule 161 Electronic voting 1. The President may at any time decide that the voting operations indicated in Rules 159, 160 and 162 shall be carried out by means of the electronic voting system. Where the electronic voting system cannot be used for technical reasons, voting shall take place pursuant to Rules 159, 160(2) or 162. The technical arrangements for using the electronic voting system shall be governed by instructions from the Bureau. 2. Where an electronic vote is taken, only the numerical result of the vote shall be recorded. However, if a vote by roll call has been requested in accordance with Rule 160(1), the votes shall be recorded in the minutes of the sitting by political group in the alphabetical order of Members' names. 3. The vote by roll call shall be taken in accordance with Rule 160(2) if a majority of the Members present so request. The system indicated in paragraph 1 of this Rule may be used to determine whether a majority exists. Rule 162 Voting by secret ballot 1. In the case of appointments, voting shall be by secret ballot without prejudice to Rules 12(1), 177(1) and 182(2), second subparagraph. Only ballot papers bearing the names of Members who have been nominated shall be taken into account in calculating the number of votes cast. 2. Voting may also be by secret ballot if requested by at least one-fifth of the component Members of Parliament. Such requests must be made before voting begins. When a request for a secret ballot is submitted before voting begins by at least one-fifth of the component Members of Parliament, Parliament must hold such a vote. 3. A request for a secret ballot shall take priority over a request for a vote by roll call. 4. Between two and six Members chosen by lot shall count the votes cast in a secret ballot. In the case of votes pursuant to paragraph 1, candidates shall not act as tellers. The names of Members who have taken part in a secret ballot shall be recorded in the minutes of the sitting at which the ballot was held. Rule 163 Explanations of vote 1. Once the general debate has been concluded, any Member may give an oral explanation on the final vote for not longer than one minute or give a written explanation of no more than 200 words, which shall be included in the verbatim report of proceedings. Any political group may give an explanation of vote lasting not more than two minutes. No further requests to give explanations of vote shall be accepted once the first explanation of vote has begun. Explanations of vote shall be admissible on