Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (8 September 2006) As most of the correspondence received by the Commission concerns the European City Guide (ECG), which is based in Spain, the Commission wrote to its Spanish Counterpart at the beginning of 2006. In its reply, the Spanish Minister for Health and Consumer Affairs provided a detailed description of the action undertaken by the Spanish authorities. At the time when the ECG was still based in Barcelona the Generalitat de Cataluña fined the ECG on three occasions. In 2003, it imposed a fine of EUR 300000 on the company and ordered its temporary closure for one year. This decision has been appealed by the ECG. Following the transfer of this company from Barcelona to Valencia, the Directorate-General for Commerce and Consumer Protection (la Dirección General de Comercio y Consumo) of the Generalidad Valenciana negotiated several improvements from the European City Guide. — In the new contract model, which apparently has been used since February 2005, the price of the order appears in bold characters, and, on the back of the form, there is a reference to the right to cancel the order within seven days. — A so-called ‘Defensor del cliente’ (ombudsman) was created on 1 January 2005. The ‘Defensor del cliente’ is a lawyer whose role is to deal with future complaints within three months. According to the ECG’s website, his decisions are binding on the ECG. — A code of conduct has been published on the ECG's website in English, French, German, Italian and Spanish. Amongst other things, it sets out the possibility to rescind the contract on a case-by-case basis after the seven-day period has expired. In addition, the Valencian authority obtained a commitment by the ECG to examine a number of complaints lodged since 2003. Having regard to these steps taken by the ECG, the Valencian Dirección General de Comercio y Consumo no longer deals with complaints, referring businesses which have not been able to resolve their dispute with the ECG to the courts. The Commission has not contacted the other Member States to date. However, since this is becoming a systematic business-to-business practice, the Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection is exploring any possible alternative future action with the Vice-President of the Commission responsible for Enterprise and Industry and with the Commissioner responsible for Internal Market and Services. Regarding the Honourable Member's question concerning legal action against Member States, one cannot automatically infer from the continued activities of a company such as the ECG that a Member State is infringing Community law. So far, the Commission has not received any complaints directed against Spain or any other Member State for non-implementation of the respective EC legislation. Given that directory scams usually target businesses or professionals and not consumers, Directive 2005/29/EC Directive 2005/29/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and amending Council Directive 84/450/EEC, Directives 97/7/EC, 98/27/EC and 2002/65/EC of the Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 of