the draft estimates of revenue and expenditure (paragraph 2); (c) a conciliation procedure shall be opened in cases where the positions of the committee responsible for the budget and the Bureau are widely divergent. ANNEX V Procedure for the consideration and adoption of decisions on the granting of discharge Article 1 Documents 1. The following documents shall be printed and distributed: (a) the revenue and expenditure account, the financial analysis and the balance sheet forwarded by the Commission; (b) the Annual Report and special reports of the Court of Auditors, accompanied by the Institutions' answers; (c) the statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions provided by the Court of Auditors pursuant to Article 248 of the EC Treaty; (d) the Council recommendation. 2. These documents shall be referred to the committee responsible. Any committee concerned may deliver an opinion. 3. Where other committees wish to deliver opinions, the President shall set the time limit within which these shall be communicated to the committee responsible. Article 2 Consideration of report 1. Parliament shall consider a report from the committee responsible concerning discharge by 30 April of the year following the adoption of the Court of Auditors' Annual Report as required by the Financial Regulation. 2. Parliament's Rules relating to amendments and voting shall apply unless otherwise provided in this Annex. Article 3 Content of the Report 1. The discharge report drawn up by the committee responsible shall comprise: (a) a proposal for a decision granting discharge or postponing the discharge decision (April part-session vote) or a proposal for a decision granting or refusing to grant discharge (October part-session vote); (b) a proposal for a decision closing the accounts of all the Community's revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities; (c) a motion for a resolution containing comments accompanying the proposal for a decision referred to in point (a) including both an assessment of the Commission's budgetary management over the financial year and observations relating to the implementation of expenditure for the future; (d) as an Annex, a list of the documents received from the Commission and those requested but not received; (e) the opinions of the committees concerned. 2. If the committee responsible proposes postponing the discharge decision, the relevant motion for a resolution shall also set out, inter alia: (a) the reasons for postponement; (b) the further action that the Commission is expected to take and the deadlines for doing so; (c) the documents required for Parliament to take an informed decision. Article 4 Consideration and vote in Parliament 1. Any report by the committee responsible concerning the discharge shall be included on the agenda of the first part-session following its tabling. 2. Amendments shall be admissible only to the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to Article 3(1)(c). 3. Unless otherwise stipulated in Article 5, the vote on the proposals for decisions and the motion for a resolution shall follow the order of Article 3. 4. Parliament shall decide by a majority of the votes cast, pursuant to Article 198 of