Will Rogers World Airport in Oklahoma City.", " The airline ceased all operations on May 31, 2008.", " Until its shutdown, the airline was a prime contractor for the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System." ] ], [ "Reno–Tahoe International Airport", [ "Reno–Tahoe International Airport (IATA: RNO, ICAO: KRNO, FAA LID: RNO) is a public and military use airport located three nautical miles (6 km) southeast of downtown Reno, in Washoe County, Nevada.", " It is the state's second busiest commercial airport after McCarran International Airport in Las Vegas.", " The Nevada Air National Guard has the 152nd Airlift Wing southwest of the airport's main terminal.", " It is named after Jesse L. Reno and Lake Tahoe." ] ], [ "Coast Guard Air Station San Diego", [ "U.S. Coast Guard Air Station San Diego (CGAS San Diego) is a Coast Guard Air Station based in San Diego, California, United States, across the street from San Diego International Airport.", " CGAS San Diego operates three MH-60T Jayhawk helicopters off the Coast Guard ramp." ] ], [ "One America Plaza", [ "One America Plaza is the tallest building in San Diego, California and a prominent fixture in the waterfront district of the downtown San Diego skyline.", " The 34-story, 500 ft , 623000 sqft , obelisk-shaped tower was designed by Helmut Jahn of Murphy/Jahn Architects and KMA Architecture.", " The top of the building bears a striking resemblance to the end of a Phillips head screwdriver and has a similar appearance to Two Liberty Place in Philadelphia also designed by Jahn, which is a year older.", " The building is the maximum height permitted by the US Federal Aviation Administration for a structure in downtown San Diego due to its close proximity to San Diego International Airport." ] ], [ "McCarran International Airport", [ "McCarran International Airport (IATA: LAS, ICAO: KLAS, FAA LID: LAS) is the primary commercial airport serving the Las Vegas Valley, a major metropolitan area in the U.S. state of Nevada.", " It is located in Paradise, about 5 mi south of Downtown Las Vegas.", " The airport is owned by Clark County and operated by the Clark County Department of Aviation.", " It is named after the late U.S. Senator Pat McCarran, a member of the Democratic Party who contributed to the development of aviation both in Las Vegas and on a national scale." ] ], [ "Provo Municipal Airport", [ "Provo Municipal Airport (IATA: PVU, ICAO: KPVU, FAA LID: PVU) is a public airport two miles (3 km) west of Provo, in Utah County, Utah.", " The airport hosts Allegiant Air flights to four airports, one in Arizona and three in California - Phoenix/Mesa Gateway Airport, Los Angeles International Airport, San Diego International Airport and Oakland International Airport.", " It is the second busiest public airport in Utah by aircraft movements, with 172,000 aircraft operations in the year ending May 2007." ] ] ] }