Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (3 June 2010) The Commission agrees with the assessment of the Honourable Member regarding the possible negative effects of Daytime Running Lights (DRL) in case the driver does not make a switch between DRL and driving beam following a change in the ambient lighting conditions (e.g. dusk/nightfall). Together with the introduction of Daytime Running Lights to new types of motor vehicles from 2011 onwards the Commission wanted to introduce an automatic sensor switching of DRL as soon as possible. Contrary to the initial intention, the obligation to combine DRL with an automatic sensor, allowing for a switch between DRL and driving beam resulting from a change in the ambient lighting conditions, had been taken out of the last amendment to the lighting installation legislation due to the negative opinion of some Member States and the intervention of industry. Nevertheless, for safety reasons the Commission had been insisting on the introduction of automatic sensor switching of DRL. At dusk, at night, or under adverse lighting conditions, vehicle drivers see a light beam in front of their vehicle and might not realise that only the DRL is switched on and not the required driving beam nor the rear illumination of the vehicle. This would be a very dangerous situation as the vehicle might not be visible to oncoming or rear traffic. Further arguments in favour of automatic switching are the avoidance of discomfort/glare to oncoming traffic, in order to avoid forgetting to switch on the light in tunnels or switch off afterwards as well as the reduction of fuel consumption and CO 2 . At the request of the Commission, the issue has been discussed again at several meetings of the Lighting Expert Group of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). During the last meeting of this group in March 2010 a solution was finally accepted. The legislation will be amended by introducing the obligation for the installation of mandatory switching of DRL to new types of vehicles. During a transitional period of 66 to 84 months, depending on the type of vehicle, the automatic switching can be replaced by certain technical provisions such as different illumination of the dashboard, a telltale informing about the activation of DRL or the non-illumination of switches in the vehicle. After this transitional period only automatic switching will be allowed. It is expected that this solution will be adopted in the June 2010 session of the World Forum for Harmonisation of Vehicle Regulations (WP.29) in Geneva and become applicable for the European type-approval of motor vehicles.