for the housing and care of laboratory animals. Appendix A of the Convention is equivalent to Annex 2 of the Directive. According to the Commission, before the Community concludes the Protocol of Amendment, a corresponding implementing tool should exist at Community level. Consequently, Directive 86/609/EEC should be amended to include the Regulatory Committee Procedure (as foreseen in Council Decision 1999/468/EC laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission) and provide for a simplified procedure as regards adaptation of annex 2 of the Directive to technical progress without which the Community's implementing legislation will be out of line with the Convention. The existing Regulatory Committees do not cover the area of the protection of animals used in experiments. Therefore it is necessary to establish a Regulatory Committee that has the appropriate competence. The proposal also includes annex 1 of the Directive, which contains the "list of experimental animals covered by the provisions of art. 21 of the Convention" to be modified through the Regulatory Committee Procedure. 22 May 2002 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUDGETS for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 86/609/EEC on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes ( COM(2001) 703 – C5‑0605/2001 – 2001/0277(COD)) Draftsman: Kathalijne Maria Buitenweg PROCEDURE The Committee on Budgets appointed Kathalijne Maria Buitenweg draftsman at its meeting of 22 January 2002. It considered the draft opinion at its meeting of 21 May 2002. At the latter meeting it adopted the following amendments unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Terence Wynn, chairman; Francesco Turchi, vice-chairman; Kathalijne Maria Buitenweg, draftsman; Joan Colom i Naval, Den Dover, Göran Färm, Salvador Garriga Polledo, Catherine Guy-Quint, María Esther Herranz García, Ian Stewart Hudghton, Wilfried Kuckelkorn, Juan Andrés Naranjo Escobar, Joaquim Piscarreta, Per Stenmarck, Kyösti Tapio Virrankoski and Ralf Walter. SHORT JUSTIFICATION 1. Background The Community is a Party to the Council of Europe Convention ETS 123 for the protection of vertebrate animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes. The implementing tool for the Convention is Directive 86/609/EEC. Appendix A of the Convention contains guidelines for the housing and care of laboratory animals. Appendix A of the Convention is equivalent to Annex 2 of the Directive. The Appendices to the Convention are of a technical nature. They rely on scientific knowledge on the physiological and ethological needs of the animals, as well as on the influence of the environment on their well-being. The Appendices need periodic adaptation to the latest scientific and technical developments and results in the research within the fields covered. Since the Community has to ensure full and timely implementation of the Convention including its Appendices, also the Annexes to the Directive require periodic adaptation. To simplify the amendments of the Appendices, the Council of Europe has opened for signature and ratification a ”Protocol of Amendment” to the Convention. Consequently, also