Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (12 May 2011) The Commission is aware that Japan suspended, at the beginning of March 2011, the use of Prevenar and Act HIB vaccines after some fatalities occurred shortly after vaccination. Following a review of the cases, the Japanese authorities announced that they would resume inoculation of the two vaccines on 1st April 2011 after a Japanese expert meeting concluded that there was no clear causal association between vaccinations and any of the reported deaths. As a consequence the vaccines were re-introduced in Japan. Both vaccines are available in the EU with Prevenar being authorised by the Commission for the whole EU and Act HIB being nationally authorised in several Member States. As regards the use of Prevenar, most Member States started with a recommendation for Prevenar vaccination for high-risk children followed by a recommendation to add Prevenar vaccination to the routine childhood immunization schedule several years later. Vaccination with Prevenar has been implemented in 18 European countries: Luxembourg (2005), United Kingdom, Norway, France, Germany, Greece, Switzerland and The Netherlands (all 2006), Belgium (2007), Denmark, Cyprus, Hungary, Ireland, Slovakia and Sweden (all 2008), and Finland (2009). Additionally, the product is used in vaccine programs of some regions in Spain and Italy. The European Medicines Agency’s Committee for Human Medicinal Product (CHMP) recently reviewed the available data for Prevenar. It concluded that the cases of fatal outcome reported in the five-year-surveillance period did not suggest an association between Prevenar and the fatal outcome. No changes to the safety information were needed. Moreover, the Committee confirmed at its meeting of March 2011 the positive benefit-risk balance of Prevenar and that there was no signal and no causal relationship between Prevenar and the reported deaths. As regards Act HIB, the primary responsibility for their surveillance lies with the Member State. The European Medicines Agency has not been informed of any suspension of the product, e.g. as a result of the evaluation of pharmacovigilance data. Any such measure by a Member State would trigger a follow-up procedure by the Agency in order to discuss and decide measures for the whole EU (Article 107 of Directive 2001/83/EC Directive 2001/83/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use, OJ L 311, 28.11.2001. ).