appear in the list of ingredients. (3) When used in the production of foodstuffs and still present, certain ingredients or other substances are the cause of allergies or intolerances in consumers, and some of those allergies or intolerances constitute a danger to the health of those concerned. (4) The Scientific Committee on Food set up by Article 1 of Commission Decision 97/579/EC OJ L 237, 28.8.1997, p. 18. Decision as amended by Decision 2000/443/EC (OJ L 179, 18.7.2000, p. 13). has stated that the incidence of food allergies is such as to affect the lives of many people, causing conditions ranging from very mild to potentially fatal. (5) The said Committee has acknowledged that common food allergens include cow's milk, fruits, legumes (especially peanuts and soybeans), eggs, crustaceans, tree nuts, fish, vegetables (celery and other foods of the Umbelliferae family), wheat and other cereals. (6) The most common food allergens are found in a wide variety of processed foods. (7) The said Committee has also noted that adverse reactions to food additives may occur and that the avoidance of food additives is often difficult since not all of them are invariably included on the labelling. (8) It is necessary to provide that additives, processing aids and other substances with allergenic effect covered by Article 6(4)(a) of Directive 2000/13/EC are subject to labelling rules, to give appropriate information to consumers suffering from food allergy. (9) Even if labelling, which is intended for consumers in general, is not to be regarded as the only medium of information acting as substitute for the medical establishment, it is nevertheless advisable to assist consumers who have allergies or intolerances as much as possible by providing them with more comprehensive information on the composition of foodstuffs. (10) The list of allergenic substances should include those foodstuffs, ingredients and other substances recognised as causing hypersensitivity (11) In order to provide all consumers with better information and to protect the health of certain consumers, it should be made obligatory to include in the list of ingredients all ingredients and other substances present in the foodstuff. In the case of alcoholic beverages, it should be mandatory to include in the labelling all ingredients with allergenic effect present in the beverage concerned. (12) In order to take account of the technical constraints involved in the manufacture of foodstuffs, it is necessary to authorise greater flexibility with regard to the listing of ingredients and other substances used in very small quantities. (13) In order to keep up with the development of scientific knowledge and progress as regards technological means of removing the allergenicity in ingredients and other substances and in order to protect consumers against new food allergens and avoid unnecessary obligations on labelling, it is important to be able to revise the list of ingredients rapidly, when necessary by including or deleting certain ingredients or substances. The revision should be based on scientific criteria determined by the European Food Safety Authority set up by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1.