the Directive should provide that the offence must be detected by automated equipments or by competent law enforcement authorities at the time of its occurrence and that the notification procedure is compliant with the rule of law and notably with the principle of non self-incrimination. Finally, the LIBE Committee agrees with the opinion delivered by the EDPS, stating that the proposal is compliant with data protection requirements. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs calls on the Committee on Transport and Tourism, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 Proposal for a directive Article 1 – paragraph 1 – point d e (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (de) any other major road safety offences; Justification The directive should reflect the efforts of Europe’s cities and regions to implement innovative sustainable transport policies such as road charging, green zones and traffic restrictions to improve the speed of public transport modes in cities to encourage modal shift. Challenges such as climate change, pollution and congestion are common to all Europe’s cities and an effective cross-border enforcement mechanism to underpin these innovative policies is crucial. Amendment 2 Proposal for a directive Article 1 - paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1a) The offence of drink-driving may be detected in first instance only by means of a breathalyzer. Blood samples may be taken only with the consent of the suspect. No legal consequence may come from the refusal of the suspect to give a blood sample Justification Taking blood samples could deeply affect fundamental rights if done without the consent of the suspect. Priority should therefore be given to other less intrusive means of detection such as the breathalyzer. A provision clearly stating that nobody can be obliged to provide a blood sample is therefore required keeping in mind the scope of the Directive (traffic offences not serious crimes). Amendment 3 Proposal for a directive Article 1 - paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (2a) This Directive shall apply only to the road traffic offences detected by means of automated equipment or, in the event of non-automated means being used, by competent law enforcement authorities at the time of its commission. Justification Certainty and lack of abuses in the detection of offences should always been ensured. In this view, it should be provided that the road offences within the scope of this Directive are detected either directly by law enforcement authorities or by means of automated equipment. Amendment 4 Proposal for a directive Article 2 – point d a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (da) “central authority” means the authority responsible for ensuring data protection in each Member State ; Amendment 5 Proposal for a directive Article 5 - paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The offence notification shall contain a description of the relevant details of the offence concerned and the amount of the financial penalty that the holder is required to pay, the possibilities for the holder to contest