Rule of Law and with all the force of the law." The European Parliament then held a minute of silence. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 ITEM-003-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 ITEM-005-EN DOC XML V0//EN External relations MEPs debate the situation in Gaza and Israel 2008-03-17 - 10:43 Opening a debate on the situation in Gaza and Israel, President Pöttering asked "What can Europeans do? In his view, the answer was that Europe must help push forward the peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians. "The peace process launched at Annapolis must not founder on violence and terror", he stressed. On behalf of the EP, President Pöttering voiced "dismay and indignation" at the daily TV images from the region, referring both to the "disproportionate military force" deployed against Palestinians and the "murderous attack" on a Jerusalem school. He condemned the violence by Hamas and other Palestinian extremists and called on the Israeli government to listen to those Palestinian voices that were calling for peace. The European Parliament intends to play a role, using "an even-handed approach". After highlighting the €540 million to support the Annapolis peace support pledged by the EU at the Paris Donors' Conference in December, Mr Pöttering said the EP would put itself forward as "an honest broker". In two weeks' time, a new working group on the Middle East will discuss how EU aid is being used, with French foreign minister Bernard Kouchner, Norwegian foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre, Commissioner Benita Ferrero-Waldner and Quartet special representative Tony Blair. Mr Pöttering also stressed that, while security has a military dimension, mutual responsibility and a willingness to seek reconciliation are crucial. "Hamas must change its ways and work with moderate Palestinians towards peace", he said, and reiterated the EP's support for Palestinian president Abbas and prime minister Fayyad. He concluded by reiterating the need for Europe "to do everything in its power" to give political backing to peace as well as support to the inhabitants of the Middle East. Political group speakers For the EPP-ED group, Joseph DAUL (FR) said that, at Annapolis, the Israelis and Palestinians "had a dream" . In Paris, "the international community pledged to support this with resources". He believed the international community "should not judge the parties" but to lead them back to reason and the negotiating table. He also drew three conclusions from a recent visit by the EPP to the Middle East. Firstly, Europe must be more active politically in the region. Secondly, "we must encourage the moderates in Israel and Palestine". Thirdly, we need to make it clear to both sides that they must stop building walls, firing rockets and constantly humiliating each other. Socialist Group leader Martin SCHULTZ (DE) said "we are all agreed on what is needed". And pointing to the destruction in the region, he said it was unacceptable "that what EU money builds is destroyed unnecessarily". It was essential, he said, that violence should stop - so why do