Member States" experts incur as a result of the Commission appointing them to assist its experts in the framework of control activities laid down under Article 71 ; h) training of control staff; i) financing of other measures needed to ensure application of the Regulation adopted under Article 71 . 2. The appropriations required under paragraph 1 shall be subject to authorisation by the budgetary authority each financial year. Article 81 Guidance documents The Commission may, in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4), adopt or amend technical and other guidance documents for the implementation of this Regulation. The Commission may ask the Authority to prepare or to contribute to such guidance documents. The Authority may initiate the preparation or revision of guidance documents for the risk assessment of active substances. Article 82 Amendments and implementing measures 1. The measures needed to implement this Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83 (3). Not later than ... * Two years after entry into force of this Regulation. , the Commission shall present legislative proposals based on Article 251 of the Treaty on: ▐ a) the ▐data requirements for active substances and for plant protection products, as referred to in Article 9 (1)(b) and (c), including measures to minimise animal testing, in particular the use of non-animal testing methods and intelligent testing strategies, taking into account scientific and technical knowledge; (b) ▐ uniform principles for evaluation and authorisation of plant protection products, as referred to in Article 30(5), taking into account scientific and technical knowledge; (c) ▐ requirements of the labelling of plant protection products as referred to in Article 68 (1); ▐ 2. In accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4), a Regulation shall be adopted containing the list of active substances included in Annex I to Directive 91/414/EEC. Those substances shall be deemed to have been approved under this Regulation. Article 83 Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, as established by Article 58 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, hereinafter referred to as "the Committee". 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 3. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 4. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5a (1) to (4) and Article 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. ║ 5. The meetings of the Committee and its Working Groups shall be open to Members of the European Parliament on request. CHAPTER XI TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 84 Transitional measures 1. Directive 91/414/EEC ("the Directive") shall continue to apply, with respect to the procedure and the conditions for