added to the tables (Directive 97/68/EC) Under all randomly selected load conditions, the limit values in the above tables may not be exceeded by more than 100%. Justification To ensure that the limit values are not only selectively aligned but are also applicable at randomly selected test points during normal operation. Amendment 38 ANNEX I, POINT 1(e), INDENT 2 Annex I, Section 4.1.2.5. (new), new paragraph (Directive 97/68/EC) The following paragraph is added to the new paragraph 4.1.2.5.: Engines for use in railway cars and locomotives Category: Net power (P ) (kW) Carbon monoxide (CO) (g/kWh) Sum of hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen (HC+NOx) (g/kWh) Particulates (PT) (g/kWh) R1: 130 kW < P <560 kW 3. 5 1. 0 0. 02 Category: Net power (P ) (kW) Carbon monoxide (CO) (g/kWh) Hydrocarbons (HC) (g/kWh) Oxides of nitrogen (NOx) (g/kWh) Particulates (PT) (g/kWh) R2: P >560 kW 2. 0 0. 5 1. 0 0. 02 Amendment 39 ANNEX I, POINT 2 (a), INDENT 1 Annex III, Section 1, paragraph 1.1 (Directive 97/68/EC) - the NRSC (Non-Road Steady Cycle) which shall be used for stages I, II and IIIA and for constant speed engines as well for stage IIIB , - the NRSC (Non-Road Steady Cycle) which shall be used for stages I, II and III and for constant speed engines as well for stage IV , - the NRTC (Non-Road Transient Cycle) which shall be used measurement of particulate emissions for stage IIIB for all engines but constant speed engines. By the choice of the manufacturer this test can be used also for stage IIA and for the gaseous pollutants in stage IIIB . - the NRTC (Non-Road Transient Cycle) which shall be used measurement of particulate emissions for stage IV for all engines but constant speed engines. By the choice of the manufacturer this test can be used also for stage IIA and for the gaseous pollutants in stage IV . Justification For clarification, Stage IIIA becomes Stage III and Stage IIIB becomes Stage IV. This also makes clear that Stage IV is another genuine stage of reduction with new requirements. Amendment 40 ANNEX I, POINT 2 (a), INDENT 2 Annex III, Section 1, paragraph 1.3 (new) subparagraph 1.3.2 (new) (Directive 97/68/EG) 1.3.2. NRTC test: 1.3.2. NRTC test: During a prescribed transient cycle of operating conditions, with the engine warmed up, based closely on the operating conditions of diesel engines installed in nonroad machinery, the above pollutants shall be examined. Using the engine torque and speed feedback signals of the engine dynamometer, the power shall be integrated with respect to the time of the cycle, resulting in the work produced by the engine over the cycle. The concentrations of the gaseous components shall be determined over the cycle, either in the raw exhaust gas by integration of the analyzer signal in accordance with Appendix 3 to this Annex, or in the diluted exhaust gas of a CVS full-flow dilution system by integration or by bag sampling in accordance with Appendix 3 to this Annex. For particulates, a proportional sample shall be collected