that "f or the purposes of restoring the financial situation of an undertaking... the supervisory authority of the head-office Member State shall require a plan for the restoration of a sound financial position be submitted for its approval. If the solvency margin falls below the guarantee fund ... the supervising authority of the head-office Member State shall require the undertaking to submit a short-term finance scheme for its approval... It shall inform the authorities of other Member States in whose territories the undertaking is authorized of any measures and the latter shall, at the request of the former, take the same measures. The competent supervising authorities may further take all measures necessary to safeguard the policy-holders' interests..." 9. The Commission and the Equitable Life case As documented by evidence sighted and confirmed by EU Commissioner Charlie McCREEVY (H8), the earliest correspondence received by the Commission on the Equitable Life case dates to February 2001 letter from MEP to Commissioner Frits Bolkestein, 27.02.2001, followed by 5 letters from other MEPs, 2 EP written questions and 7 complaints from individual citizens. , i.e. when the case had already been widely debated in the UK press, well after the House of Lords rulings and after Equitable Life had closed to new business. In its first replies, the Commission stated it would " wait for the outcome of the Penrose report before determining what actions, if any, should be taken ." see WE-CONF11 and WE 73, page 4. In March 2004, the complaints received were still not registered as formal complaints by the Commission Secretariat General, which asserted that the objective of Community infringement proceedings is to " restore or establish the compatibility of national law with Community law and not to rule on the alleged incompatibility of a past regulatory or supervisory regime ", adding that " any claims for alleged damages must be pursued before national courts." In substance, the Commission - citing " strong legal advice based on Court jurisprudence " see oral evidence in H1 and H7. - persistently claimed that it did not need to take a decision on the alleged past incompatibility with EC law of UK regulators' prudential supervision over Equitable Life, as long as the current compatibility of the regulatory regime was ascertained. In H8 Commissioner Mr. McCREEVY confirmed that it is " the Commission's key job of making sure that Community legislation is properly implemented", adding that "checking Member States' implementation of Community legislation is a difficult exercise. It is time and resource-intensive. There are linguistic problems. Translations are not always available. Member States frequently implement our directives by amending multiple pieces of existing legislation and often fail to provide transposition tables". His clear message was that "the Commission is not responsible for the supervision of individual insurance undertakings. That is the job of the national authorities.... the Commission is not and cannot be the supervisor of the supervisors." Assessing in particular the Equitable Life case, Commissioner McCREEVY concluded by saying that " the UK authorities reacted quickly following the Society's crisis and closure to new business