Answer given by Mr De Gucht on behalf of the Commission (14 September 2011) The Commission is committed to pursuing and promoting sustainable development and sustainable trade, including the protection of the environment and human health, through different EU policies including trade, development, environment and initiatives on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). In this regard, instead of the use of restrictive trade measures, like trade bans, the EU approach is generally based on dialogue, transparency and cooperation, as the most effective tools to enhance the contribution of trade to sustainable development. The use of import bans has to be carefully assessed in each case, notably with regard to their feasibility, effectiveness, possible unintended negative consequences as well as their compliance with international rules on trade that bind the EU, like the WTO Agreement. The Commission encourages partner countries' adherence to internationally recognised social and environmental principles, standards and agreements, including Multilateral Environmental Agreements. The Commission is addressing these issues in its bilateral relations with China, notably in the context of the partnership and cooperation agreement negotiations as well as through regular policy dialogue. Promotion of stakeholders' engagement is another key strand of action for the Commission in promoting sustainable development and trade. CSR plays an important role in this regard, as voluntary actions by economic operators can usefully complement governmental action setting and enforcing mandatory rules of general application. The Commission is committed to continue to work to promote responsible business conduct and adherence to internationally recognised instruments on CSR, such as the recently updated OECD Guidelines for multinational enterprises http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/43/29/48004323.pdf . In the framework of the EU‑China environment policy dialogue, the Commission has sought to help China upgrade the relevant environmental legislation and improve its application. Our bilateral cooperation has included a major programme on river-basin management, based on EU experiences with the Water Framework Directive OJ L 327, 22.12.2000. , and training of Chinese government experts on the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Directive OJ L 24, 29.1.2008. and on REACH OJ L 396, 30.12.2006. (Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals). Thanks to these initiatives, China now has at its disposal in-depth knowledge about EU policies that can help avoid pollution of rivers, lakes and reservoirs as a result of textile manufacture operations. The Commission will continue to encourage China to carry out regulatory approximation with EU rules and standards in this area. Furthermore, in order to improve the level of implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation in China, the EU‑China Environmental Governance Programme has been launched. This new initiative should improve access to environmental information and public participation in environmental decision-making in China, and it should also help boost the role of environmental non-governmental organisations including their possibilities to appeal against decisions taken by Chinese local authorities.