for consideration in Parliament. 2. An amendment to the common position shall be admissible only if it conforms to the provisions of Rules 150 and 151 and seeks: (a) to restore wholly or partly the position adopted by Parliament in its first reading; or (b) to reach a compromise between the Council and Parliament; or (c) to amend a part of the text of a common position which was not included in - or differs in content from - the proposal submitted in first reading and which does not amount to a substantial change within the meaning of Rule 55; or (d) to take account of a new fact or legal situation which has arisen since the first reading. The President's discretion to declare an amendment admissible or inadmissible cannot be questioned. 3. If new elections have taken place since the first reading, but Rule 55 has not been invoked, the President may decide to waive the restrictions on admissibility laid down in paragraph 2. 4. An amendment shall be adopted only if it secures the votes of a majority of the component Members of Parliament. 5. Before voting on the amendments, the President may ask the Commission to state its position and the Council to comment. CHAPTER 5 THIRD READING Conciliation Rule 63 Convening of Conciliation Committee Where the Council informs Parliament that it is unable to approve all Parliament's amendments to the common position, the President shall, together with the Council, agree to a time and place for a first meeting of the Conciliation Committee. The six-week or, if extended, eight-week deadline provided for in Article 251(5) of the EC Treaty shall run from the time at which the Committee first meets. Rule 64 Delegation to Conciliation Committee 1. Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee shall consist of a number of members equal to the number of members of the Council delegation. 2. The political composition of the delegation shall correspond to the composition of Parliament by political groups. The Conference of Presidents shall fix the exact number of Members from each political group. 3. The members of the delegation shall be appointed by the political groups for each particular conciliation case, preferably from among the members of the committees concerned, except for three members who shall be appointed as permanent members of successive delegations for a period of twelve months. The three permanent members shall be appointed by the political groups from among the Vice-Presidents and shall represent at least two different political groups. The chairman and the rapporteur of the committee responsible in each particular case shall be members of the delegation. 4. The political groups represented on the delegation shall appoint substitutes. 5. Political groups and Non-attached Members not represented on the delegation may each send one representative to any internal preparatory meeting of the delegation. 6. The delegation shall be led by the President or by one of the three permanent members. 7. The delegation shall decide by a majority of its members. Its deliberations shall not be public. The Conference of Presidents shall lay down