that spent watching television. At the same time, it has been established that there are around 260 million pages with pornographic content circulating on the Internet. According to a recent study conducted in Ireland, Sweden, Iceland, Norway and Denmark, countries where Internet use is highly developed, one young person in three taking part in discussion forums or chat rooms is subject to sexual advances. It is time to ensure that actors and users, both big and small, take responsibility for what is happening on the Internet and to protect children and the most vulnerable from harmful and illegal content. This is all the more necessary now that new technologies are omnipresent and frequently freely available in schools, cybercafés and homes and in the near future via third generation mobile phones. From the point of view of the progress called for in the Commission’s second report on implementation of the 1998 recommendation drawn up in 2003, it would appear that self-regulation is insufficient and that the liability of access providers needs to be established. It is to be regretted, furthermore, that the European Federation they have formed is not representative of all Member States. Since the 1998 recommendation, several measures have been taken at national and European level, but the pace of technological development in the area of communications media is such that it would appear useful to propose new and more innovative measures which are better targeted and meet the concerns of the users of these new technologies. I. Current European legislation 1. Protection of minors The question of the protection of minors and human dignity in this particular sector was first dealt with in the 1989 Television without Frontiers Directive on the free movement of audiovisual services (Article 22). Subsequently, in 1996, the Commission published a Green Paper on the protection of minors and human dignity in audiovisual and information services (COM (96) 483 final). It takes into account all modes of audiovisual broadcast and communication, from radio and television broadcasting to the Internet. Finally, in 1998, after consulting Parliament, the Council adopted a Recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity in audiovisual and information services . At Parliament’s request, the Commission submitted two evaluation reports on the implementation of this recommendation in 2001 and 2003 respectively. Following its first evaluation report, which was the subject of an excellent report by my colleague Mr JP BEAZLEY, the Commission published a second report in 2003 and has now submitted a second recommendation of the Council and of the European Parliament. 2. Protection of human dignity and the right to reply The Television without frontiers Directive devoted an article to the protection of human dignity and the right to reply in the audiovisual sector, supplementing national provisions on human dignity and national laws in the field, all of which include the right of reply in respect of the written press. II. Issues 1. Promotion of the information society One of the objectives set in Lisbon was that information and communications technologies (ICT) should make it possible to build an information society