Community, the Member States and the providers and users of statistical information of the statistics produced , in relation to their costs; b) assess the quality of the statistics produced; c) identify areas for potential improvement and any amendments considered necessary in the light of the results obtained. Article 9 Implementing measures The measures for implementing this Regulation, including measures to take account of economic and technical trends, shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). Such measures shall concern: a) adaptation of the threshold for statistical coverage of inland waterways transport (Article 2) ; b) adaptation of the definitions and adoption of additional definitions (Article 3) ; c) adaptation of the data collection scope and the content of the annexes (Article 4) ; d) arrangements for transmitting data to the Commission (Eurosta t ) including data interchange standards (Article 5) ; e) arrangements for the dissemination of results by the Commission (Eurostat) (Article 6) ; f) development and publication of methodological requirements and criteria (Article 7). Article 10 Committee procedure 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Statistical Programme Committee instituted by Article 1 of Decision 89/382/EEC, Euratom. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. Article 11 Transitional provisions 1. Member States shall provide statistical results for the year 2006 in accordance with Directive 80/1119/EEC. 2. Directive 80/1119/EEC is hereby repealed with effect from 1 January 2007. Article 12 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX A Table A1. Goods transport by type of goods (annual data) Elements Coding Nomenclature Unit Table 2-alpha "A1" Reporting country 2-letter ISO national code Year 4-digit "yyyy" Country/region of loading 2-letter or 4-alpha ISO national code or NUTS2 Country/region of unloading 2-letter or 4-alpha ISO national code or NUTS2 Type of transport 1-digit 1 = National 2 = International (except transit) 3 = Transit Type of goods 2-digit NST 2000 Type of packaging 1-digit 1= Goods in containers 2= Goods not in containers Tonnes transported Tonnes Tonnes-Km Tonnes-Km ANNEX B Table B1. Transport by nationality of the vessel and type of vessel (annual data) Elements Coding Nomenclature Unit Table 2-alpha "B1" Reporting country 2-letter ISO national code Year 4-digit "yyyy" Country/region of loading 2-letter or 4-alpha ISO national code or NUTS2 Country/region of unloading 2-letter or 4-alpha ISO national code or NUTS2 Type of transport 1-digit 1 = National 2 = International (except transit) 3 = Transit Type of vessel 1-digit 1= Self-propelled barge 2= Barge not self-propelled 3= Self-propelled tanker barge 4= Tanker barge not