losses eventually suffered by those who held policies on 16 July 2001 ." In H5 Mr. BAYLISS stated that "there was no doubt that ... in the new regulatory regime of the FSA, the returns were not adequate in terms of explaining the true situation or potential liabilities that hid in those funds ... They had been buying Equitable’s story on solvency margins for a very long time: as long as you are generating new sales to cope with it, then you are OK. If your new business is big enough, you can backfill the hole ... The problem was that the regulators realised there was a problem with GARs in 1998 and they did not know what to do about it. As to the other question of intervention and when, the regulators were aware through the Ombudsman, certainly in 1997 and 1998, that this was an issue. They had the documentation that we circulated to the press, certainly in the summer of 1998, if they had not had it earlier through individual clients sending it in ... I think they had the same problem of wanting or not wanting to intervene." However, in WE46, non-GAR policyholder Mr. STONEBANKS challenged some of Mr. BAYLISS' evidence, asserting a clear divergence of interests between GAR and non-GAR policyholder groups and claiming that Mr. BAYLISS had been championing only for the rights of the former group, bringing the GAR issue to court and by doing so eventually leading to EL's downfall. "This was a mutual, equitable Society set up for the benefit of all members, so I was appalled that Bayliss should be demanding more for some ... Mr.Bayliss must have realised that if his demands were met then not only would Equitable have been put out of business, but, by adding £1.5 billion to their liabilities and destroying their major product, the Society would not have been worth rescuing. He must have known that if Equitable Life met his demands then they would be put out of business. And as Equitable's main product was unmarketable, there was no point in any other company taking them over. Was Stuart Bayliss set up by other major LifeCos to put Equitable Life out of business? I doubt if we will ever know, but this seems to me the only logical explanation for Mr. Bayliss' actions. Equitable was a major and successful player in the UK pensions industry and I can well understand that other LifeCos would like to see them go ." 3. Alleged Unfairness in the 2001 'Compromise Scheme' When the 'Compromise Scheme' took legal effect (8 February 2002) after approval by the UK High Court "there were still close to a million people with an interest in the with-profits fund." (WE47) WE29, annex A.2 details: " as of 30 June 2001 there were 70.000 individual with-profits policyholders with GARs, 415.000 individual policyholders without GARs, 105.000 GAR and 510.000 non-GAR policyholders in group pension schemes ". . The scheme was meant to stabilize the with-profits fund by reducing exposure to GARs, while at the same time