The Union shall share competence with the Member States where the Constitution confers on it a competence which does not relate to the areas referred to in Articles 11 and 15 . 2. The scope of shared competences is determined by the provisions of Part Two. 3. Where the Union has not exercised or ceases to exercise its competence in an area of shared competence, the Member States may exercise theirs. 4. Shared competence applies in the following principal areas: – internal market – area of freedom, security and justice – agriculture and fisheries – transport – trans-European networks – energy – social policy – economic and social cohesion – environment – public health, and – consumer protection. 5. In the areas of research, technological development and space, the Union shall have competence to carry out actions, in particular to implement programmes; however, the exercise of that competence may not result in Member States being prevented from exercising their competence. 6. In the areas of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, the Union shall have competence to take action and conduct a common policy; however, the exercise of that competence may not result in Member States being prevented from exercising their competence. Article 13: The coordination of economic policies 1. The Union shall coordinate the economic policies of the Member States, in particular by establishing broad guidelines for these policies. 2. The Member States shall conduct their economic policies, taking account of the common interest, so as to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Union. 3. Specific provisions shall apply to those Member States which have adopted the euro. Article 14: The common foreign and security policy 1. Member States shall actively and unreservedly support the Union's common foreign and security policy in a spirit of loyalty and mutual solidarity. They shall refrain from action contrary to the Union's interests or likely to undermine its effectiveness. Article 15: Areas for supporting action 1. The Union may take coordinating, complementary or supporting action. The scope of this competence is determined by the provisions of Part Two. 2. The areas for supporting action are: employment - – industry – education, vocational training and youth – culture – sport – protection against disasters. 3. The Member States shall coordinate their national employment policies within the Union. 4. Legally binding acts adopted by the Union on the basis of the provisions specific to these areas in Part Two cannot entail harmonisation of Member States' laws or regulations. Article 16: Flexibility clause 1. If action by the Union should prove necessary within the framework of the policies defined in Part Two to attain one of the objectives set by this Constitution, and the Constitution has not provided the necessary powers, the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after obtaining the assent of the European Parliament, shall take the appropriate measures. 2. Using the procedure for monitoring the subsidiarity principle referred to in Article 9, the Commission shall draw Member States' national parliaments' attention to proposals based on this Article. 3. Provisions