conclusions: – that considerable progress has been achieved in terms of internal control compliance, but full implementation of the new internal control framework will take more time; – that internal control systems should be fully developed and documented in every unit and that, to that end, every unit must have adequate resources for duties involving initiation of operations and verification; – that there is a need across the board for staff with appropriate specialist knowledge in the area of financial management and financial control, meeting which need must be regarded as a priority; – that, in addition, appropriate mechanisms should be developed for planning, programming and setting objectives, risk appraisal instruments and optimum management information systems Paragraph 40 of its above-mentioned resolution of 12 April 2005. ; 47. Considers that, on the basis of the experience gained, the responsible authorising officers by delegation must ensure that: - internal control systems provide for regular verification of the substance of legal transactions which are binding in the long term, and - internal control systems make sure that legal transactions which are binding in the long term contain clauses providing scope for adjustments which make economic sense; Considers that the Internal Auditor should verify the correct implementation of these measures in his review of the internal control framework. 48. Notes that these priority areas are reflected in the Secretary-General's action plan, subject to paragraph 47; 49. Notes that the handling of procurement procedures and Members' parliamentary assistance allowances are currently the subject of ongoing audits; considers that the audit reports should be assessed during the budget discharge procedure for 2005; 50. Asks the Internal Auditor to take account also of the principle of efficiency and economy in the management of funds as an aspect of verifying the regularity and legality of expenditure operations; 51. Asks the Internal Auditor not only to forward his annual reports to the Committee on Budgetary Control, but also to give an oral account of them; Procurement 52. Recalls that the Financial Regulation and its implementing rules Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 1). Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1261/2005 (OJ L 201, 2.8.2005, p. 3). which entered into force on 1 January 2003 modified the procedures for planning, publishing and awarding procurement contracts; recalls further that the institutions forward to the budgetary authority reports on negotiated procedures and on contracts not falling under public procurement directives, that a list of contractors with contracts worth more than EUR 50 000, but less than the threshold under those directives, is published in the Official Journal, and that contracts worth between EUR 13 800 and EUR 50 000 are published on institutions’ websites; notes in addition that in 2003 Parliament called on its Secretary-General to report annually on contracts concluded Paragraph 90 of its above-mentioned resolution of 8 April 2003. ; 53. Notes that