same time calls on the members of the ILO to agree on common rules for the developing countries, with the precise nature of these rules and the timetable for their implementation to be determined in cooperation with the developing countries; 63. Stresses the need for the WTO to respect ILO decisions in this area; suggests that, in this connection, when the ILO decides on sanctions, the States should be able to use trade instruments such as the triggering of safeguard clauses, temporary reassessment of customs tariffs or the introduction of anti-dumping measures; 64. Stresses that poverty reduction and the promotion of sustainable development must be one of the central focuses of the EPA negotiations; 65. Stresses the importance of maintaining and strengthening the multilateral trade frameworks; recalls that within the WTO, as a forum for shaping a fair rules-based system for international trade, special emphasis should be placed on increasing the developing countries’ negotiating capacities in order to enable them to better represent their trade interests and integrate them into the global economy; 66. Reiterates its call for a wide-ranging urgent reform of the WTO resulting in greater democratic accountability, transparency and higher credibility so as to integrate it more effectively within the general framework of world governance; calls for greater coordination and coherence among the various international institutions active in the field of trade, development and development finance, including the United Nations agencies responsible for human development, health, labour and the environment, with the view to achieving the MDGs and consolidating efforts to eliminate poverty and provide opportunities for all; 67. Calls for the European Parliament, as the legitimate representative of the citizens of the European Union, to be associated with agreements on international trade; 68. Stresses that the fight to combat poverty is closely linked with the protection of human rights, the establishment of democratic institutions and democratic governance; 69. Welcomes the Declaration made on 14 September 2005 at the Untied Nations Summit on the Achievement of the Millennium Development Goals in New York, proposing to give consideration to the introduction of international solidarity contributions to the fight against AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria which would enable the international community to fulfil its undertakings to the poorest countries, while also contributing to a fair distribution of the new wealth generated by globalisation; 70. Considers that not only trade, but especially economic development, investment in small and medium sized businesses which supply goods and services, can have an impact on an increase in wealth in the future; calls, in particular, on the European Investment Bank to develop more programmes for these target groups; 71. Stresses the importance of supporting LDCs in removing red tape in order to stimulate enterprise domestically and find markets abroad in particular by involvement of local communities, parliaments and civil society in developing countries in democratic processes. 72. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The necessity for the European Parliament to give a first pronouncement on the link between Trade and