efforts are suggested to harmonise the two drafts. Amendment 11 Recital 13 (13) It should be specified that the powers exercised by regional and local authorities as public authorities, notably police and regulatory powers, cannot be the subject of a convention. (Does not affect the English version) Amendment 12 Recital 14 (14) It is necessary for the EGCC to establish its statutes, and equip itself with its own organs, as well as rules for the budget and for the exercise of its financial responsibility. (14) It is necessary for the EGCC to establish its statutes, and equip itself with its own organs, and establish decision-making procedures as well as rules for the budget and for the exercise of its financial responsibility. Justification One constant feature of the statutes of a public-law body is a description of the way in which decisions are taken. This prevents decision-making dilemmas from arising as well as increasing the transparency of decision-making. Amendment 13 Recital 15 (15) Since the conditions for cross-border co-operation, as specified in this regulation, cannot be created in an efficient way by the Member States, and are thus better established at the c ommunity level, the Community can take measures, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle enshrined in article 5 of the treaty. In accordance with the proportionality principle set out in that article, this regulation does not exceed what is necessary for achieving its objectives, recourse to the EGCC being optional, in accordance with the constitutional system of each Member State, (15) Since legal conditions throughout Europe for territorial co-operation, as specified in this regulation, cannot be created in an efficient way by the Member States, it is better to establish these conditions at Community level . Accordingly, the Community can take measures, in accordance with the subsidiarity principle enshrined in article 5 of the treaty. In accordance with the proportionality principle set out in that article, this regulation does not exceed what is necessary for achieving its objectives, recourse to the EGTC being optional, in accordance with the constitutional system of each Member State, Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 14 Article 1, Title Nature of the EGCC Nature of the EGTC Justification See justification to Amendment 1. Amendment 15 Article 1, paragraph 1 1. A cooperative grouping can be established on community territory in the form of a European grouping of cross-border co-operation, hereafter referred to as “EGCC” , under the conditions and according to the modalities envisaged by this regulation. 1. A cooperative grouping can be established on community territory in the form of a European grouping of territorial co-operation, hereafter referred to as “EGTC” , under the conditions and according to the modalities envisaged by this regulation. Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 16 Article 1, paragraph 3, first sub-paragraph 3. The objective of the EGCC is to facilitate and promote cross-border co-operation between Member States, as well as regional and local authorities , with the aim of reinforcing economic, social and territorial cohesion. 3. The objective of the EGTC is to facilitate and promote territorial