distribution process simpler and cheaper and can be used to make different language versions available. However, it will be some time before they are used on a large scale. The farsighted attitude of the Commission and Council, the establishment of the European Digital Cinema Forum and a number of experimental projects such as the Babelsberg Cyber Cinema are therefore of the first importance. Educating cinema audiences The importance of education in this whole area would be hard to overestimate. How can we impart to our children, young people and adults a taste for European films when films from other European countries no longer form part of their experience? Television broadcasters bear a heavy responsibility here. This must therefore be debated thoroughly in connection with the revision of ‘Television Without Frontiers’. In addition, Member States have a fundamental role to play in developing the visual faculty by means of school curricula. The applicant countries The market share of European films in the applicant countries is generally even worse than in the EU Member States. Because of their parlous economic situation, these countries are in an even weaker position to resist the massive influx of American films. More research is needed, but the statistics available seem to confirm this trend. Yet most of these countries have rich cinema traditions. This situation could be an additional argument in favour of adopting specific EU legislation on films. As part of the ‘acquis communautaire’, this could help to revive their own cinema traditions and create better opportunities for the distribution of European films. The international context: the WTO At the Uruguay Round in 1994, the EU and its Member States were able to protect their audiovisual industries by securing a series of opt-outs for the sector and by not making any specific commitments to liberalise. In the new Round there will be pressure to make commitments, or at least not to extend existing measures to new services, such as distribution over the Internet. Given the uncertainties for existing revenue streams, it is important to safeguard existing measures and for the EU and Member States to reserve the right to extend these or new measures to new services to continue to achieve their policy objectives, which remain unchanged since Uruguay. Accordingly state aids (at the EU and national level) and other incentives to maintain cultural diversity are needed to ensure the continuance and survival of cultural diversity in the production of European films and their European-wide circulation.