harmonisation.". Article 8 Directive 2002/83/EC Directive 2002/83/EC is hereby amended as follows: 1. in the first sentence of Article 46(9), the words "the Commission shall submit to the Insurance Committee a report summarising" shall be replaced by the words "the Commission shall inform the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee of"; 2. Article 58 shall be replaced by the following: "Article 58 Information from Member States to the Commission (a) of any authorisation of a direct or indirect subsidiary, one or more of whose parent undertakings are governed by the laws of a third country; (b) whenever such a parent undertaking acquires a holding in a Community assurance undertaking which would turn the latter into its subsidiary. When the authorisation referred to in point (a) is granted to the direct or indirect subsidiary of one or more parent undertakings governed by the law of third countries, the structure of the group shall be specified in the notification which the competent authorities shall address to the Commission and to the other competent authorities."; 3. Article 65(1) shall be replaced by the following: "1. The Commission shall be assisted by the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee established by Commission Decision 2004/9/EC [26]. II.2. Further evidence on transposition II.2.1. Evidence by the Commission As an introduction, it is useful to recall first of all what are the precise responsibilities of the Commission in terms of the transposition of EU law The nature of the responsibilities of the European Commission is dealt with in extenso in Part V of the report. . Article 211 of the EC Treaty states that the Commission is charged with monitoring the application of Community law, which entails: 1) verifying if Member States have adopted implementing national measures and communicated them to the Commission within the prescribed time limit; 2) verifying the conformity of national transposition measures with Community legislation; 3) ensuring the actual respect of the provisions by private and public entities, bodies and authorities (enforcement). It is with these benchmarks in mind that the EQUI Committee took evidence from the Commission. Firstly, the Commission, represented by Insurance unit Director Elmer TERTAK, attended the EQUI hearing of 23 March 2006 (oral evidence H1). Further written exchanges also took place. Secondly, the Internal Market Commissioner, Charlie McCREEVY, gave evidence on 23 November 2006 (oral evidence H8). During all these exchanges, the Commission responded to questions asked by Members and presented evidence requested from it on the transposition of the relevant Directives and their application by competent authorities during the reference period, as well as on action taken by the Commission with regard to monitoring implementation. This evidence includes the implementation study on the 3LD by the UK law firm Wilde Sapte (WE 20), a list of infringement procedures (WE 19) and a list of all documents related to ELAS in the Commission's possession, including letters, e-mails and other miscellaneous documents (WE 39). A paper on home/host issues was also prepared by the Commission (WE 41). Further information was received in WE Conf-11: the review of the implementation study, information on