Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (26 May 2009) When former stray animals enter into intra-Community trade or become pet animals, they immediately come under the scope of the current animal health rules. Dogs intended for trade between Member States must meet the relevant requirements of Directive 92/65/EEC OJ L 268, 14.9.1992. that since 3 July 2003 refers, with regard to specific health requirements, to Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 OJ L 146, 13.6.2003. of the Council and of Parliament laying down the animal health requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pet animals. These rules only contain specific provisions in relation to rabies. However, for animals destined for the United Kingdom, Ireland, Malta, Sweden and Finland additional requirements such as blood testing and/or anti-parasite treatment apply. In order to be subject to intra-Community trade or non-commercial movements, dogs must: (i) be individually identified by means of a tattoo or an electronic identifier (‘transponder’). Electronic identification becomes compulsory as from 3 July 2011; and (ii) have a valid anti-rabies vaccination documented in the passport issued by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority. The passport establishes a link between the individually marked animal and its certified health status, in particular with regard to rabies vaccination and certain treatments. In the case of trade, within 24 hours prior to dispatch the authorised veterinarian must document in Section IX of the passport the clinical examination of the animals. On that basis, the official veterinarian of the Member State of origin issues a health certificate and notifies the movement to the competent authorities of destination through the Community Trade Control and Expert System (TRACES). Therefore, comprehensive Community legislation is in place to ensure both the safe non-commercial movements as well as the trade in dogs within the EU. The Commission considers that Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 provides for clear and simplified rules on travelling with pets making it easier for EU citizens and their pets to move within the EU while properly protecting public and animal health, in particular with regard to rabies. It is the primary responsibility of the Member States to ensure proper implementation and enforcement and to prevent any illegal use of the passport. The Commission inspection service of DG SANCO Health and Consumers Directorate-General. (FVO — Food and Veterinary Office located in Grange, Ireland) may also carry out on-the-spot inspections in Member States in order to assure effective control systems and to evaluate compliance with Community requirements. In case of failure the Commission is to act in accordance with the Treaty.