WRITTEN QUESTION E-1289/07 by Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (14 March 2007) Subject: RENFE — railway infrastructure Developing a decent railway network is nowadays of crucial importance to Europe. Not only are railways a swift and efficient mode of transport — they also held to make the planet more habitable. Mobility and transport are currently one of our society's most polluting activities. It is essential that such activities should be pursued in an increasingly sustainable fashion if climate change is to be combated and CO2 emissions reduced throughout the EU. Railways are the solution and they should be given political priority. More and more voices are calling for the railways to become the major alternative for the carriage of goods — which means switching the carriage of goods from road to rail. This makes not only ecological but also economic sense. On account of their efficiency and their payload capacity, railways will be highly profitable in the long term. Hence good rail links between Europe's ports, airports, major conurbations, industrial areas and major centres of economic activity are essential. Priority should also be attached to ensuring that rail becomes the customary mode of transport in large cities. At local level there must be a switch from private forms of transport to public transport, for which purpose good, efficient, rapid metropolitan rail connections will be required. Only the satisfactory provision of public transport will enable private transport users to be transferred to the railways. I should like to draw the Commission's attention to the problems currently being experienced by users of suburban trains in the Greater Barcelona area. Delays, cancellations and unjustified stoppages are becoming increasingly frequent and are affecting thousands of local people. The Spanish Government's failure over the last few years to invest in the network has reduced Barcelona's suburban service to an unacceptably poor standard and caused it to suffer major operational problems. This state of affairs has obviously led to a worrying loss of confidence amongst the general public and a reluctance to continue using the railways as a customary means of intercity transport. Does the Commission agree with the objectives set out above — i.e. that the railways should be favoured for the carriage of both goods and passengers? If so, what action is the Commission intending to take in order to promote the railways? Is the Commission aware of the problems affecting RENFE's suburban trains in the Barcelona area and of the lack of investment in network maintenance? Is the Commission planning to take any action in this respect?