worked for the competent authority or for any authority or person to whom the competent authority has delegated tasks, including auditors and experts contracted by the competent authority. Information covered by professional secrecy may not be disclosed to any other person or authority except when such disclosure is necessary for legal proceedings. 1. The obligation of professional secrecy shall apply to all persons who work or who have worked for the CESR, for the competent authority or for any authority or person to whom the competent authority has delegated tasks, including auditors and experts contracted by the competent authority. Information covered by professional secrecy may not be disclosed to any other person or authority except when such disclosure is necessary for legal proceedings. Amendment 136 Proposal for a regulation Article 28 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. All the information exchanged between competent authorities under this Regulation shall be considered confidential, except when the competent authority states at the time of communication that such information may be disclosed or when such disclosure is necessary for legal proceedings. 2. All the information exchanged between the CESR and the competent authorities under this Regulation shall be considered confidential, except when the CESR or the competent authority states at the time of communication that such information may be disclosed or when such disclosure is necessary for legal proceedings. Amendment 137 Proposal for a regulation Article 29 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The competent authorities may conclude cooperation agreements on exchange of information with the competent authorities of third countries only if the information disclosed is subject to guarantees of professional secrecy which are at least equivalent to those set out in Article 28. Such exchange of information must be intended for the performance of the tasks of those competent authorities. The CESR may conclude cooperation agreements on exchange of information with the competent authorities of third countries only if the information disclosed is subject to guarantees of professional secrecy which are at least equivalent to those set out in Article 28. Such exchange of information must be intended for the performance of the tasks of those competent authorities. Amendement 138 Motion for a regulation Article - 31 (new) Texte proposé par la Commission Amendement Article -31 Complaints The CESR shall ensure that procedures are set up which allow issuers, investors and other interested parties to register complaints about the fulfillment of the requirements and conditions laid down in this Regulation. All complaints shall be dealt with carefully and while respecting confidentiality. Justification Instead of undue litigation procedures, effective complaints procedures should be stimulated and established. CESR should be the authority in charge in order to prevent arbitrage. Amendement 139 Motion for a regulation Article - 31 a (new) Texte proposé par la Commission Amendement Article -31a Out-of-court settlements 1. Member States shall encourage the setting-up of appropriate and effective complaints procedures for the out-of-court settlement of disputes between credit rating agencies and issuers, investors and other interested parties where appropriate about the fulfillment of the requirements and