WRITTEN QUESTION E-0662/05 by Frederika Brepoels (PPE-DE) to the Commission (1 March 2005) Subject: Organ donation at European level There is a drastic shortage of organ donors. By way of example, the number of available organs in Belgium fell by 15% last year compared with 2003. Rough estimates suggest that every three days a patient dies because of a shortage of donors. The waiting times for a kidney transplant have risen to three years. Belgium has good legislation on organ donation. It is based on the ‘presumed consent system’, under which everyone is a potential donor unless they themselves or above all their family register their refusal. However, wide differences occur in terms of the number of refusals, with the figures fluctuating between 7 and 20%, depending on the hospital. The relationship between the doctor and the family is crucial; experience shows that, where the necessary time is taken to explain everything properly, the family usually consents to organ donation. It is very important to raise awareness among doctors and paramedics, and to a lesser extent among the population as a whole. Furthermore, research into perfusion mechanisms, making use of organs at the optimal time following brain death and raising the age limit for donors could significantly increase the number of donations. At European level there are differences in laws, and this has an impact on organ donation results. Spain has a very liberal policy, under which refusal by the family is not a possibility. In the Netherlands, on the other hand, donors have to officially register. Belgium comes out well, with half as many donors again as the Netherlands. In addition, the Benelux countries, Germany, Austria and Slovenia are working together within the Eurotransplant network, which is designed to find optimum organ matches, increasing the chances of success. Naturally, there remains room for national coordination (among other things, transport must remain feasible) and (ethical) controls in each Member State. Experience in practice shows that there are initiatives that could be taken to increase the number of organ donors. Does the Commission take the view that a European approach is appropriate, and if so, does it intend to take steps in this connection? Should the legislation in each Member State be harmonised in order to promote cross-border cooperation? How does the Commission envisage assistance for the development of a network like Eurotransplant on a wider European scale? What measures can be taken in order to give a boost to this area? What other initiatives does the Commission intend to take in order in general to help increase the number of organs available?