GSP access, open to all developing countries, a number qualify for GSP+. This means additional tariff cuts for developing countries that meet certain conditions. GSP eligibility criteria vulnerability/dependence — where the country's five largest GSP-covered EU exports account for more than three quarters of its total GSP exports — and where the country's GSP-covered EU exports represent less than 1% of total EU GSP imports. GSP+ beneficiaries must also have ratified and implemented some 27 international conventions in the fields of human rights, core labour standards, sustainable development and good governance. When a country fails to satisfy these criteria, GSP+ can be suspended. All 49 least-developed countries are eligible for the Everything but Arms scheme which offers them duty-free quota-free EU market access for all exports. Timeframe The current GSP scheme was established under Council Regulation EC 732/2008. It expires at the end of 2011, after which GSP will lapse unless a substitute scheme is in place. The Commission expects to table a new proposal in early 2011, which would mean the replacement GSP scheme would only come into force in mid-2012 at the earliest, i.e. a legal void of over six months. Therefore, the current proposal looks to extend the existing GSP scheme for a maximum two further years, until such time as the new Regulation enters into force. Your rapporteur is of the view that this solution is not ideal — it means that EP has a say on the scheme only four years after the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty. However, is a satisfactory approach inasmuch as it obviates unwanted discontinuity in the GSP programme. It would obviously be harmful for developing countries if they were obliged to revert to the EU's MFN tariffs and ceased to enjoy preferential treatment, albeit temporarily. Having said this, it is important that the Commission produces its new GSP proposal within the shortest possible timeframe and that the legislative procedure is concluded as speedily as possible. However, the new GSP scheme, unlike its predecessor, will be co-decided by Council and Parliament; time pressure must not be allowed to usurp Parliament's democratic prerogatives. Parliament must make use of its new post-Lisbon powers in the trade arena. Current proposal A more substantial review of the GSP scheme is likely when the new GSP Regulation is drafted next year. Your rapporteur has nonetheless tabled several amendments to the GSP Regulation as it stands. First and foremost, the principle of preferential and differential treatment where our trading relationships with developing countries are concerned is a key one. The share of developing countries' exports in overall EU imports is negligible. Yet trade preferences give them the chance to break free from the vicious circle of aid dependency. Proposals to move towards EU-developing country trade relationships on an equal footing, when the EU's current capacity and comparative advantages are far superior, are not realistic. Article 208 of the Lisbon treaty of course obliges the EU to "take account of the objectives of development cooperation in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries."