the committee giving an opinion. 3. The committee responsible shall fix a deadline within which the committee asked for an opinion must deliver it if it is to be taken into account in the committee responsible. Any changes to the announced timetable shall be immediately communicated by the committee responsible to the committee(s) asked for an opinion. The committee responsible shall not reach its final conclusions before that time limit has expired. 4. All adopted opinions shall be annexed to the report of the committee responsible. 5. Only the committee responsible may table amendments in Parliament. 6. The chairman and draftsman of the committee asked for an opinion shall be invited to take part in an advisory capacity in meetings of the committee responsible, insofar as these relate to the matter of common concern. Rule 47 Procedure with associated committees Where a question of competence has been referred to the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rules 179(2) or 45, and the Conference of Presidents, on the basis of Annex VI, considers that the matter falls almost equally within the competence of two or more committees, or that different parts of the matter fall under the competence of two or more committees, Rule 46 shall apply with the following additional provisions: - the timetable shall be jointly agreed by the committees concerned; - the rapporteur and the draftsmen shall keep each other informed and shall endeavour to agree on the texts they propose to their committees and on their position regarding amendments; - the chairmen, rapporteur and draftsmen concerned shall endeavour to jointly identify areas of the text falling within their exclusive or joint competences and agree on the precise arrangements for their cooperation; - the committee responsible shall accept without a vote amendments from an associated committee where they concern matters which the chairman of the committee responsible considers, on the basis of Annex VI, after consulting the chairman of the associated committee, to fall under the exclusive competence of the associated committee and which do not contradict other elements of the report. The chairman of the committee responsible shall take account of any agreement reached under the third indent; - in the event of a conciliation procedure taking place on the proposal, Parliament's delegation shall include the draftsman of any associated committee. The wording of this Rule does not lay down any limits to its scope. Requests for application of the procedure with associated committees concerning non- legislative reports based on Rules 45(1) and 112(1) and (2) are admissible. Rule 48 Drafting of reports 1. The explanatory statement shall be the responsibility of the rapporteur and shall not be put to the vote. It must, however, accord with the text of the motion for a resolution as adopted and any amendments proposed by the committee. If it fails to do so, the chairman of the committee may delete the explanatory statement. 2. The report shall state the result of the vote taken on the report as a whole. In addition, if at least one-third of the members present so request when