matter of urgency and forward any relevant information in their possession. Amendment 130 Article 33, paragraph 4 4. The Authority shall forward the information collected on emerging risks to the European Parliament, the Commission and the Member States. 4. The Authority shall forward the evaluation of, and information collected on, emerging risks to the European Parliament, the Commission and the Member States. Amendment 131 Article 34 Article 34 Rapid alert system Deleted 1. The Authority shall be responsible for the operation of the rapid alert system for food and feed established in Article 49. 2. The Authority, in consultation with the Member States and the Commission, shall set up the facilities necessary for the rapid transmission of information required for the operation of the rapid alert system. Amendment 132 Article 35, paragraph 1 1. The Authority shall promote the European networking of organisations operating in the fields within the Authority's mission. The aim of such networking is , in particular, to facilitate the coordination of activities, the exchange of information, the development and implementation of joint projects, the exchange of expertise and best practices in the fields within the Authority's mission. 1. The Authority shall promote the networking of organisations operating in the fields within the Authority's mission , including consumer organisations and other stakeholders. The aim of such networking shall be , in particular, to facilitate the coordination of activities, the exchange of information, the development and implementation of joint projects, the exchange of expertise and best practices in the fields within the Authority's mission. Amendment 133 Article 35, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. Member States are recommended to activate and coordinate at the regional and/or interregional level a network of centres of research excellence aimed at the continuous monitoring of food safety. Amendment 134 Article 35, paragraph 2 2. The Management Board, acting on a proposal from the Executive Director, shall draw up a list of competent and independent organisations designated by the Member States which may assist the Authority, either individually or in networks, with its mission. The Authority may entrust to these organisations certain tasks, in particular, preparatory work for scientific opinions, scientific and technical assistance, scientific studies, collection of data and identification of emerging risks. Some of these tasks may be eligible for financial support. 2. The Management Board, acting on a proposal from the Executive Director, shall draw up a list , which shall be made public, of competent and independent organisations which may assist the Authority, either individually or in networks, with its mission. The Authority may entrust to these organisations certain tasks, in particular, preparatory work for scientific opinions, scientific and technical assistance, scientific studies, collection of data and identification of emerging risks. Some of these tasks may be eligible for financial support. The Management Board, acting on a proposal from the Executive Director, shall also devise a programme whereby competent and independent organisations in the field of food safety in the EEA, EFTA countries and the candidate countries may cooperate and network with the Authority. Such bodies and organisations may be entrusted from