rules into one piece of EU law which will cover the land transport modes road and rail and include inland waterway transport as well. It is expected that this report at first reading in co-decision may lead to a direct agreement with Council. Megatrucks on EU roads? Yes, but under strict conditions The European Parliament adopted by a large majority (577 votes in favour to 52 against with 51 abstentions) proposing that the controversial use of mega-liners or 60 tonne lorries in the EU should only be allowed for certain routes at the request of, and within the Member States. The Single Market Review: tackling barriers and inefficiencies In adopting a report, the House welcomed the Commission’s work on the Single Market Review (SMR), noting that the Review - which aims to review existing mechanisms and to identify gaps - is an opportunity to demonstrate the benefits to be reaped from the effective implementation of the internal market. As MEPs underline, an improvement in the functioning of the Single Market is still necessary. "There is a need", reads the report, "to complete the opening of network industries, such as transport, telecommunications, postal services and energy transport." Review of the EU consumer acquis - MEPs gave their views This own initiative report on the Commission's review of the consumer acquis, adopted by Parliament, recommends that the scope of this review concentrate on updating and creating coherence between the eight consumer protection directives named in the Green Paper. Use of primates in experiments is not acceptable say MEPs in written declaration The European Parliament adopted a written declaration urging the EU to use the revision process of Directive 86/609/EC as an opportunity to make ending the use of apes and wild-caught monkeys in scientific experiments an urgent priority. They also want to establish a timetable for replacing the use of all primates in scientific experiments with alternatives. As of 6 September 2007, 433 MEPs had signed the written declaration. Reform of the milk market, but not at excessive cost to producers say MEPs For the European Parliament, savings generated by the milk market reform "mini-package" proposed by the European Commission must benefit the sector. School milk aid needs to be raised, and the necessary adjustments to Europe's dairy market should not jeopardise the existing private storage scheme. This is thrust of a series of reports adopted by the European Parliament. Maximising the impact of human rights dialogues Parliament adopted on an own-initiative which calls on the Commission and Council to ensure a greater degree of coherence in the EU's human rights dialogues with third countries. MEPs particularly stress the need for Parliament to be informed of the content of ongoing dialogues and urge the use of more stringent criteria and monitoring mechanisms. Human rights: Burma, Bangladesh, war crimes tribunal in Sierra Leone In three resolutions adopted at the end of Thursday's plenary sitting, Parliament condemns the military crackdown on this summer's demonstrations in Burma, urges the Bangladesh Caretaker Government to accelerate the restoration of democracy and calls on the international community to guarantee continued