improving the level of awareness among parents, teachers and trainers of the potential of the new services and of the means whereby they may be made safe for minors, in particular through media education programmes. Justification It is very important to expand the scope of the recommendation to cover all information services and not exclusively those provided on-line. The text has also been corrected and made more specific in order to prevent possible misinterpretation. Amendment 24 Recommendation I, point 2, indent 2 a (new) - publicity campaigns designed to censure violence against minors and to help victims by offering psychological, moral and practical support; Justification It is important that people (in particular minors) should be made aware of violence and be informed of the types of assistance available. Amendment 25 Recommendation I, point 3 (3) encouraging industry to avoid discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in all media, and to combat such discrimination. (3) encouraging the audiovisual and information services industry in general to avoid discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in all media, and to combat such discrimination. Justification To specify the scope of the recommendation as before. Amendment 26 Chapter I, point 3 a (new) (3a) promoting measures to combat all kinds of criminal activity on the Internet and to make it a much safer medium. The adoption of the following measures, inter alia, could be considered: - making it compulsory, on the one hand, for Internet providers to keep log archives (connection data archives) for what is considered to be a reasonable amount of time and identifying ways to reduce the financial burden this requirement would create for the sector, on the other; - adopting a seal of quality for providers, so that all users can easily identify whether or not a particular provider is regulated by a code of conduct; - looking at the introduction into their legal systems of a system of mutual or multiple responsibility with regard to Internet crime; - setting up a single telephone helpline for information about illegal or suspicious activities on the Internet. Justification Log archives (a list of all connections from an IP address) kept by Internet providers are the most important form of judicial evidence used for following up any illegal activity on the Internet. The adoption of a seal of quality for providers would help make the Internet a much safer place than it is now. Amendment 27 Recommendation II, introductory sentence II. RECOMMEND that the industries and parties concerned: II. RECOMMEND that the audiovisual services industry and the information services industry in general and the parties concerned: Justification To specify the scope of the recommendation as before. Amendment 28 Recommendation II, point 1 (1) develop positive measures for the benefit of minors, including initiatives to facilitate their wider access to audiovisual and information services, while avoiding potentially harmful content , including a ‘bottom-up’ harmonisation through cooperation between self-regulatory and coregulatory bodies in the Member States, and through the