Question for written answer E-007788/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Daniël van der Stoep (NI) (26 August 2011) Subject: Romania flouts rules — animal cruelty continues, but the Commission says nothing Cruelty to animals is routine in Romania: this should no longer be a surprise to anyone. This time it is the town of Bârlad, in the Romanian district of Vaslui, that is in the news. Not only stray dogs but also dogs in animal shelters are being abominably ill-treated and unnecessarily put down there. The pictures http://www.adevarul.ro/locale/vaslui/Strainii_sar_sa_ajute_cainii_din_Barlad_0_520748370.html speak volumes. Romanian animal-lovers have asked the Romanian authorities to call an immediate halt to this suffering http://www.piaberrend.org/romania-horror-in-the-municipal-shelter-of-barlad/ , but all those responsible are cloaking themselves in silence. The mayor of Bârlad is doing his best to keep up the pretence of being a dog lover, but the facts have become too blatant for this to work. Romania is disregarding Article 13 of the TFEU, which states: ‘the Union and the Member States shall, since animals are sentient beings, pay full regard to the welfare requirements of animals’. Romania is also contravening its own national legislation, namely Article 7(1) of law 205/2004, and law 9/2008, which state that ‘the euthanasia of dogs, cats and other animals is banned with the exception of animals with incurable diseases as diagnosed by a veterinarian’. 1. Is the Commission aware that suffering is still constantly being caused to animals and does it agree that this should be stopped immediately? If not, why not? 2. Does the Commission agree that its answer to Written Question E‑005087/2011, in which it states that it has no competence to take any action towards the Romanian authorities, is no compensation for the massive suffering caused to animals in Romania, and is it therefore prepared nevertheless to issue a warning to Romania? If not, why not? 3. Does the Commission agree that Romania has shown its total disregard for both European and national rules and is therefore not suited for EU membership? If not, why not?