and has concentrated essentially on the punitive aspect (readmission agreements, police checks at borders, etc); 5. Points out that the effective development of a common migration policy with due regard for fundamental rights and international human rights obligations is a priority goal of European integration and has been notably reiterated in the Hague Programme adopted on 4 and 5 November 2004; 6. Considers that, in order to encourage the social and political integration of migrant workers, they should be granted equal rights; calls, therefore, on the Member States, the Commission and the Council to take all necessary steps to ensure recognition of the right of migrants who have been continuously resident in the Union for at least five years to vote in local and European Parliament elections; 7. Calls upon the Member States to create specific residence permits designed to facilitate the search for work; 8. Calls on the Commission to ensure the inclusion in decisions and framework decisions of all the provisions of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families adopted by the UN General Assembly on 18 December 1990, which is aimed at integrating migrant workers; calls on the Member States, in accordance with its resolution of 24 February 2005 on the EU's priorities and recommendations for the 61st session of the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva P6_TA(2005)0051 . and the European Economic and Social Committee opinion Opinion SOC/173 of 30 June 2004. , to ensure the speedy ratification of the said UN Convention, which not a single Member State has ratified to date; 9. Calls on Member States to immediately remove all barriers to free movement for EU citizens; 10. Considers that the European Union's immigration policy must follow a global and coherent approach based on synergies between various policy areas and not merely on labour market requirements in the Member States; 11. Insists on the need to adopt a common immigration policy in order to end the exploitation of workers made vulnerable by the absence of legal immigration channels; 12. Calls on the Commission, in designing a European framework for economic migration, to take into account the different policies and experiences existing in the Member States, and stresses that a constant evaluation of the impact of migration policy on other EU policies, including trade policy, should be carried out; 13. Favours the possibility of making entry conditions more flexible and effective, with provision for a residence permit for purposes of employment, minimum standards for the admission of third-country nationals for the purpose of working either as employees or as self-employed persons, and residence and work permits for seasonal workers or those employed on a time-limited basis; 14. Believes it is essential to strengthen solidarity, particularly with the new Member States, in the development of measures for the integration of migrants; 15. Points out that mass regularisation aims to provide prospects for illegal migrants, but is no substitute for substantial policies for dealing with illegal immigration or an effective means of recruiting economic migrants; 16. Calls