for carrying out the tasks of the Joint Undertaking. 5. Contributions in kind are permissible and shall be set out in the agreements referred to in Article 8 of this Annex . They shall be subject to an evaluation of their value and their utility for carrying out the tasks of the Joint Undertaking. Justification It follows from the amendment to Annex, Art. 8 (1). Amendment 59 Annex, Article 17 Property rights Property rights The Joint Undertaking shall own all the tangible and intangible assets created or transferred to it for the implementation phase of the SESAR project. The Joint Undertaking shall own all the tangible and intangible assets created by it or transferred to it for the development phase of the SESAR project in accordance with the membership agreements it concluded. The Joint Undertaking may grant access rights to the knowledge resulting from the project, in particular to its members but also to the Member States of the European Union and/or Eurocontrol for their own, non commercial purposes. Justification This is an important amendment that merits careful consideration because it lays down the legal provisions concerning property rights. A similar proposal has been made by the Council's working group. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Background In 2004 the ‘Single European Sky’ legislation laid the institutional and regulatory foundations for defragmented and interoperable air traffic control. We are now in the implementation phase of Single Sky and it is becoming urgent to address the problem of developing the technologies required. The European Commission has accordingly launched the European plan for modernising air traffic control (SESAR), in cooperation with the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation (Eurocontrol) and, in principle, with financial support from the private sector. This configuration forms a public-private partnership (PPP) with a tripartite financial structure. The aim of SESAR is to set up a joint undertaking to create a new-generation European air traffic management system. Why is SESAR needed? Estimates suggest that the volume of air traffic will double, if not triple, between now and 2025. The industry also contributes 220 thousand million euros to Europe’s GDP and employs 3.1 million people. Bottlenecks in air transport infrastructure, particularly in the area of air traffic control (ATC), are unavoidable. This is all the more true as the present ATC systems are based on technologies that are 20 years old, if not older. In an age of satellite communication, Galileo and the high-speed network, pilots and their controllers are still communicating by radio. The present system is capable of ensuring that air traffic control operates safely, but it is clearly approaching its limits. The ATC infrastructure is fragmented and only interoperable in part, so it cannot meet the challenges of the coming years: greater safety, increased traffic, energy efficiency and environmental constraints. There is a pressing need for innovation. As the technology arm of Single European Sky, SESAR needs to: · adapt air traffic control to the new technologies, · ensure the safety and regulation of flights, · organise air navigation services, · define the respective roles and responsibilities of surveillance authorities