of excellence, public-private R&D partnerships, business incubators and clusters leading to knowledge transfer and commercialisation of R&D results; calls on the EIB to develop new funding arrangements to foster the development and market introduction of new technologies, including grouped loans for specific research activities, technology platforms, and simplified lending procedures for midsized firms 24. Welcomes the increased role and proposed initiatives of the EIB and EIF in this context and calls for the full use of the loan facilities of the EIB institutions; 25. Recommends, in particular, that the existing margin for manoeuvre offered within the current Financial Perspectives be used now, by taking full advantage of the EU budget and European funds, in particular structural funds, to better reflect and implement the Lisbon strategy; 26. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission, the Economic and Social Committee and the governments and parliaments of the Member States and the social partners. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Economic background Economic stagnation in the Eurozone and even recession in some Members States, increasing unemployment, inequality and poverty, plus the incapacity of the European Union to steer the wheel in the direction of growth, are no convincing proof of an efficient and successful economic governance. Economic recovery has not only been delayed but the economic slow-down has been pronounced, with GDP growth in the Euro zone barely reaching 0,4% of GDP in 2003, and the prediction for 2004 being a relatively modest 1,8% of GDP, which is at the same level as the Commission had predicted in its 2002 autumn forecasts as the growth rate for 2003 and which did not materialise. The economy of the European Union is shrinking with three countries (Germany, Italy and the Netherlands) technically in recession and France also suffering a sharp contraction. The general government deficit in the Euro area has widened to 2,8% of GDP in 2003 with deteriorating budget positions in all countries except Belgium, Spain, Austria and Portugal. Germany and France are expected to reach a deficit of 4,2% of GDP in 2003 and will also remain above the 3% GDP threshold in 2004. Demand components were subdued. In fact growth was only upheld thanks to government consumption, mainly due to the functioning of the automatic stabilisers. Employment held up quite well and the rise in the unemployment rate remained limited (an increase of 0,5% to a rate of 8,9%) due to intensified labour market adjustments. Labour productivity stagnated or deteriorated in comparison with the US. The ECB decreased its key interest rate to 2%, yet in comparison the Federal bank has eased monetary policy further and decreased interest rates to 1 percent at the same time. In 2003 the nominal exchange rate of the Euro appreciated by more than 20% against the US dollar compared to the average exchange rate recorded in the previous three years and 11% against main industrialised countries and accession countries. The appreciation led to a loss in market share and thus export developments put a significant drag on growth. Oil prices have been subject to high volatility