devastate inter-community relations, rather, there needed to be a healthy and constructive dialogue between communities. The protection of human rights should be of paramount concern. The EU had an opportunity to act in an intelligent and proportionate way based on the rule of law. Mr Karim was concerned about the targeting of Mosques, and he warned of European Muslims being reduced to being classified as " second class citizens " on the basis of appearance. The leader of the British Conservative MEPs, Timothy KIRKHOPE (UK), said we must prove wrong the terrorists' belief that we did not have the strength to defend our democracies. "We need to review the delicate balance of civil rights and the protection of people going about their daily lives," he said. He condemned what he called Graham Watson's "sanctimonious twaddle," arguing that the nature of justice meted out to terrorists must be of a different level to the protection of the innocent. Law enforcement agencies should not be hampered by bureaucracy. On the other hand, he also rejected Nigel Farage's approach, saying that European cooperation between law enforcement agencies was essential and valuable. Regarding data retention, he called for the authorities to make best use of new technology, with appropriate safeguards, otherwise criminals would gain an advantage. Geoffrey VAN ORDEN (EPP-ED, UK) welcomed effective protection measures and international cooperation. The EU, no doubt, had a role to play, he said, but he warned Mr Clarke: "The EU has a nasty habit of seeking to extend its own powers on the back of a crisis." He criticised what he said was the UK's failure to secure its own borders or to take action to prevent extremists living in the UK from supporting terrorism. He said he was appalled at Graham Watson's statement that terrorists had the same human rights as their victims. Michael CASHMAN (PES, UK) told MEPs the time had come for them to act: "We are debating whether to give tools to enable our police to act, while citizens are having their lives damaged or terminated by terrorists." A balance between rights and security must be struck, he said, but not in such a way as to hand an advantage to terrorists. Parliament should join with the Commission and Council to end unnecessary arguments and act together to protect the public. Responding to the debate, Home Secretary Charles CLARKE , welcomed the style of the debate and contributions calling for the EU institutions to work together over the next four months. However, Mr Clarke warned against some political forces in the House that spread disinformation and malice. The Home Secretary also stressed the importance of working within a legal framework. He gave the example of the ongoing police investigation into the killing of the Brazilian national in London. Finally, Mr Clarke stated that suicide bombings had taken place in Europe, and there was an obligation to deal with the problem. He agreed that human rights were indivisible but he pointed out that terrorists sought to destroy those same human rights. Mr Clarke also stated that there