Question for written answer E-003904/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Fiorello Provera (EFD) (27 April 2011) Subject: Prominent Chinese lawyer detained On March 21, the Associated Press reported that prominent human rights lawyer, Jiang Tianyong, vanished after going to see his brother in a Beijing suburb. The news service reports that he is one of dozens of well-known lawyers and activists across China who have vanished, been interrogated or criminally detained for subversion in recent weeks. Between 16 and 19 February, Jiang was taken away by police, along with two other lawyers, Teng Biao and Tang Jitian. Many activists cite the protests in the Middle East as a pretext to clamp down on human rights groups. In response to the actions of the security services, Jiang's wife, Jin Bianling, said: ‘none of them will tell me anything about why he was taken away or where he has been taken to’. Bianling said her repeated efforts to get more details from the police had been fruitless. Jiang is also in need of daily medication for high blood pressure, but according to his wife, the police have refused to convey his medicine to him. According to the Hong Kong-based, Chinese Human Rights Defenders (CHRD), more than 100 people have been questioned or followed by police or placed under house arrest. Nicholas Bequelin from Human Rights Watch said that the crackdown was even more serious than the one in December when the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Liu Xiaobo. AP reports that China employs a wide-range of extralegal measures to silence independent voices, including 24-hour surveillance and coerced stays in government guest houses or other locations. This is especially common around the time of politically sensitive occasions. In light of Parliament's resolutions on Liu Xiaobo, Gao Zhisheng, Hu Jia and the call for Chen Guangcheng's release, will the Commission answer the following questions: 1. Is the VP/HR aware of the detention of Mr Jiang Tianyong? 2. Is the Commission prepared to ask the Chinese authorities to report the whereabouts of Jiang Tianyong, Teng Biao and Tang Jitian to their families and friends? 3. What steps is the Commission prepared to take to ask the Chinese authorities to soon release the individuals in question? 4. Will the Commission take this issue up with the Chinese at the next EU‑China human rights dialogue? 5. Is the Commission prepared to take on board some of the recommendations submitted by the European Parliament in January 2010 regarding the case of Liu Xiabo, such as its call ‘to initiate comprehensive assessment and strengthening of the EU‑China human rights dialogues’?