States of Directive 2004/8/EC is late and far from perfect; G. whereas the European Union is one of the richest and most technologically advanced regions of the world; whereas the European Union has increased its economic output by nearly 40% and average per capita income by a third since 1990;whereas, over the same period, demand for energy and power resources grew by only 11%; H. whereas information and communication technologies – if given the right policy signals – could generate additional productivity gains beyond the EU's 20% target; whereas certain technologies such as smart grid technology, intelligent management systems and speckled computing technologies should therefore be the subject of effective policy recommendations; 1. Welcomes the abovementioned 2006 Action Plan for Energy Efficiency and applauds its objectives and scope; 2. Considers that a target of improving energy efficiency by over 20% by 2020, in addition to any improvements due to autonomous structural or price effects, is entirely feasible technically and economically, and calls on the Commission and the Member States to ensure that this objective as well as the climate change targets are met; 3. Notes with grave concern that implementation by Member States of existing legislation on energy efficiency is incomplete and behind schedule; 4. Stresses the need for the energy-efficiency policy to be implemented at all levels of government; 5. Regrets that implementation by Member States of Directive 2004/8/EC is incomplete and far behind schedule; 6. Censures the failure to put in place the number of Commission officials needed in order to ensure that both the Action Plan and the energy efficiency legislation on which it builds are implemented fully and promptly; 7. Deplores the fact that, of 21 Commission actions scheduled in the Action Plan for completion in 2007, only three had been fully implemented by 1 September 2007, while noting that, by 30 October 2007, 16 of those 21 actions were reported by the Commission to be 'well on track'; deplores the severe slippage in the timetable for the adoption of minimum energy performance standards for priority product groups; 8. Censures the failure of many Member State governments to prioritise full and prompt transposition of, and compliance with, energy efficiency legislation, despite rhetoric about tackling climate change and reducing EU energy imports; 9. Urges the Commission to speed up the drafting of the future memorandum of understanding on cooperation with the Council of European Energy Regulators (CEER), which will lay down common guidelines and a common code of conduct, with a view to improving the efficiency of final energy use in all sectors; 10. Calls for an urgent and frank assessment, in the Commission and in each Member State, of the capacity shortfalls and other barriers which to date have led to inadequate implementation of energy efficiency legislation, and of how these shortfalls and barriers can be overcome; 11. Notes in particular the widespread lack of simple, immediate information and organisational support on energy efficiency at the point of need, which may arise suddenly (e.g. when a domestic appliance or other equipment breaks down) or be connected with particular