17 Article 4, point (b) (b) demobilised former soldiers of regular armies and armed opposition movements , plus their families and, where appropriate, their local communities; (b) demobilised former soldiers, in Asian and Latin American developing countries, plus their families and, where appropriate, their local communities; Amendment 18 Article 5 Operations carried out under this Regulation shall complement those provided for by other Community instruments governing development cooperation. Operations carried out under this Regulation shall complement those provided for by other Community instruments governing short-term humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation. Amendment 19 Article 6, paragraph 1 1. In the context of the operations referred to in Article 3, Community support may include the financing of studies (which shall, as far as possible, be carried out by consultants of the host country), technical assistance, training and other services, supplies, works, audits and evaluation and monitoring missions. 1. In the context of the operations referred to in Article 3, Community support may include the financing of action to provide technical assistance, training and other services, supplies, works, studies (which should, as far as possible, be entrusted to or involve collaboration with consultants either of the host country or stationed there, and involve universities and research institutes), audits and evaluation and monitoring missions. Amendment 20 Article 6, paragraph 2 2. Community financing may cover both investment expenditure, excluding the purchase of real estate, and , in duly substantiated cases and taking into account the fact that the project must, as far as possible, aim at medium-term viability, recurring expenditure (including administrative expenditure, maintenance and running costs), so that maximum use is made of the investments referred to in paragraph 1, the operation of which temporarily represents a burden for the partner. 2. Community financing may cover investment expenditure, including the purchase of real estate, when the latter is necessary for the direct implementation of the operation and provided that ownership is transferred to the beneficiary's local partners or the final beneficiaries of the operation once the latter has come to an end. It may also cover, in duly substantiated cases and taking into account the fact that the project must, as far as possible, aim at medium-term viability, recurring expenditure (including administrative expenditure, maintenance and running costs), so that maximum use is made of the investments referred to in paragraph 1, the operation of which temporarily represents a burden for the partner. Amendment 21 Article 8, paragraph 1 1. The Commission shall be responsible for appraising, deciding or administering the operations covered by this Regulation in accordance with the budgetary and other procedures in force, in particular those laid down by the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. 1. The Commission shall be responsible for appraising, deciding or administering the operations covered by this Regulation in accordance with the budgetary and other procedures in force, in particular those laid down in Articles 2, 116 and 118 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. Amendment 22 Article 11, point (f) (f) its commitment to