in the case of personal injury is not enough if people have been very seriously injured. At the same time, to multiply this by a number of victims could jeopardise the finances of insurance companies. The figure of €10 million is therefore seen as a satisfactory compromise for all sides. According to the rapporteur, there are in practice very few accidents where several people are sufficiently seriously injured for there to be any question of a claim of several million euros on grounds of personal injury. In addition, MEPs want to add the cost of legal proceedings to the level of insurance cover. This would include the various costs incurred by an accident victim, the cost of legal and technical experts, out-of-court legal consultations, legal representation and court costs. However, the committee deletes the Commission's proposal to require motor insurance to cover personal injuries suffered by pedestrians and cyclists in an accident involving a road vehicle. They believe this sensitive matter should be dealt with by separate legislation. Fisheries Greater flexibility and local participation in cod recovery plan Catherine STIHLER (PES, Scotland) Report on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing measures for the recovery of cod stocks ( COM(2003) 237 – C5-0237/2003 – 2003/0090(CNS)) Doc.: A5-0341/2003 Procedure : Consultation Debate : 23.10.2003 On behalf of the Fisheries Committee, Catherine STIHLER (PES, Scotland) is tabling a number of non-binding amendments to a draft regulation for a long-term recovery plan for cod in the North Sea and adjacent waters. The Commission proposed the regulation in May 2003, following scientific reports indicating that the stock is close to collapse. Under the plan, fishing will be cut back in order to allow cod stocks to recover to safe levels within a time frame of five to ten years. While generally supporting the plan, the rapporteur stresses the need for greater flexibility and local participation. The reductions in fishing will affect the North Sea and West of Scotland, the Irish Sea, the Skaggerak, the Kattegat and the eastern English Channel. However, the committee wants to allow Member States or Regional Advisory Councils (RACs) to propose alterations both to the geographical scope of the plan and to the exact arrangements designed to lessen fishing pressure. Mrs Stihler argues that the participation of fishermen must be encouraged if the plan is to be effectively implemented. The RACs, created as part of CFP reform, are designed to do precisely that and should therefore have a formal role. The amendments also aim at stricter enforcement to help ensure the viability of the plan. The committee wants all participating vessels to be monitored by satellite by 1 January 2005. It also asks the Commission to draw up a report on the effects of industrial fishing on the cod stock, which remains a controversial issue. The committee urges vigilance over the socio-economic effects of the plan and therefore wants Member States to report on these a year after it comes into effect. Should the need arise, the Commission should provide compensation to mitigate the industry's losses. Enforcing the CFP - fishermen must