is exceeded shall include as a minimum the items listed in Section II of Annex II. Member States shall also take steps to supply such information when an exceedance of the information threshold or alert threshold is predicted. (Amendment 9) Article 7 In accordance with Article 7(3) of Directive 96/62/EC, Member States shall draw up action plans indicating measures to be taken in the short term where there is a risk of exceedances of the alert threshold and where there is likely to be significant potential for reducing that risk or for reducing the duration and severity of any exceedance. In accordance with Article 7(3) of Directive 96/62/EC, Member States shall draw up local action plans indicating measures to be taken in the short term in each case and in each place where there is a risk of exceedances of the alert threshold and where there is likely to be significant potential for reducing that risk or for reducing the duration and severity of any exceedance of the alert threshold . For this purpose, Member States shall investigate and assess the reduction potential of those short-term measures, taking into account the criteria specified in the guidance referred to in Article 12. Member States shall also have regard to that guidance when developing and implementing the short-term action plans. For this purpose, Member States shall investigate and assess in each case the reduction potential of those short-term measures, taking into account the criteria specified in the guidance referred to in Article 12. Member States shall also have regard to that guidance when developing and implementing the short-term action plans. Member States shall inform the Commission, the public, appropriate organisations such as environmental organisations, consumer organisations, organisations representing the interests of sensitive population groups and health care bodies about both the results of their investigations and the content and implementation of specific short-term action plans. (Amendment 10) Article 10(1)(ca) (new) (ca) provide the Commission annually with details of the content and implementation of such short-term action plans as may have been prepared in accordance with Article 7 of this Directive. (Amendment 11) Article 10(2) (d) (iii) (iii) information regarding decisions on short-term action plans and concerning the design of any such plans prepared in accordance with Article 7 of this Directive. Deleted (Amendment 12) Article 10(3)(aa) (new) (aa) publish the information submitted by Member States in a form that enables direct comparison of the performances of Member States. (Amendment 25) (Article 10(3)(b) (b) check the implementation of the plans or programmes submitted pursuant to paragraph 1(b) by examining their progress and the trends in air pollution; (b) check the implementation of the plans or programmes submitted pursuant to paragraph 1(b) by examining their progress and the trends in air pollution , taking account of the meteorological conditions ; (Amendment 13) Article 11(1) 1. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council by [31 December 2004[ at the latest a report based on experience of the application of this Directive, and in particular on the findings of the most recent scientific research