Rompuy (President of the European Council) made the statement. The following spoke: José Manuel Barroso (President of the Commission) . The following spoke: Joseph Daul , on behalf of the PPE Group, Martin Schulz , on behalf of the S&D Group, Guy Verhofstadt , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Daniel Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Jan Zahradil , on behalf of the ECR Group, Lothar Bisky , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Godfrey Bloom , on behalf of the EFD Group, Barry Madlener , Non-attached Member, and Werner Langen . IN THE CHAIR: Dagmar ROTH-BEHRENDT Vice-President The following spoke: Edite Estrela, Sylvie Goulard, Philippe Lamberts, Martin Callanan, Bairbre de Brún, Niki Tzavela, Frank Vanhecke, Corien Wortmann-Kool, Proinsias De Rossa, Carl Haglund, Konrad Szymański, Paul Murphy, Oreste Rossi, Hans-Peter Martin, Mario Mauro, Roberto Gualtieri, Sharon Bowles, Gerald Häfner, Peter van Dalen, Ilda Figueiredo, John Bufton, Andreas Mölzer, Alain Lamassoure, Udo Bullmann, Wolf Klinz, Derk Jan Eppink, Gunnar Hökmark, Pervenche Berès, Lena Ek, Vicky Ford, Jaime Mayor Oreja, Antolín Sánchez Presedo, Ivo Strejček, Paulo Rangel, Edit Herczog, Anni Podimata, Andrey Kovatchev, Frédéric Daerden, Marianne Thyssen, Kriton Arsenis, Jacek Saryusz-Wolski, Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, Marian-Jean Marinescu, Simon Busuttil and Tunne Kelam. The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Mairead McGuinness , Jörg Leichtfried , Jean-Pierre Audy , Enrique Guerrero Salom , Graham Watson , Jaroslav Paška , Andrew Henry William Brons , Seán Kelly , Marc Tarabella , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Franz Obermayr , Ana Gomes , Monika Flašíková Beňová , Angelika Werthmann and Zigmantas Balčytis . The following spoke: José Manuel Barroso and Herman Van Rompuy . IN THE CHAIR: Edward McMILLAN-SCOTT Vice-President The following spoke: Martin Schulz . The debate closed. 4 Voting time Detailed voting results (amendments, separate and split votes, etc.) appear in the Results of Votes annex to the minutes. The results of roll-call votes are available in electronic form only, as an annex to the minutes, and can be accessed via Europarl. 4.1 Mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund: Poland - Podkarpackie - Manufacture of machinery (Rule 138) (vote) Report on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in accordance with point 28 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application EGF/2010/013 PL/Podkarpackie machinery from Poland) [ 2011/2045(BUD) ] - Committee on Budgets. Rapporteur: Barbara Matera ( A7-0059/2011 ) (Qualified majority: three fifths of votes cast) (Voting record: 'Results of votes', Item 1) MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION Adopted by single vote ( P7_TA(2011)0120 ) 4.2 Migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy (Rule 138) (vote) Report on migration flows arising from instability: scope and role of EU foreign policy [ 2010/2269(INI) ] - Committee on Foreign Affairs. Rapporteur: Fiorello Provera ( A7-0075/2011 ) (Simple majority) (Voting record: 'Results of votes', Item 2) MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION Adopted by single vote ( P7_TA(2011)0121 ) 4.3 Role of