the same brand. The pressure to reduce cost and buying prices, as well as tough competition between chains, sometimes leads, unwillingly, to unfair practices during negotiations. Big retailers often feel that discussions on unfair practices are driven by misperceptions and bad-mouthing, while others feel that they are in denial and defensive. Key questions remain to be investigated based on factual evidence: does the increased concentration of retailers distort free competition? Does centralised purchasing allow for equal market access for SMEs? Is logistic convenience prevailing over product quality and variety as purchasing criteria? Most importantly, do consumers only want lower prices or also more value for money? Do consumers get the full picture to make informed decisions? The multiplication of private labels is also polarising and requires further debate and awareness-raising on the pros and cons. The Commission has concluded in a recent study that, for now, private labels are not decreasing choice and innovation. But is the replacement of brand products with private labels really consumer-driven? Moreover, copycatting poses serious concerns for brand manufacturers and must be addressed. Overall, freedom of contract and consumer empowerment are key. There must be a right balance and fairer negotiations without distorting market dynamics. Good examples of creative action by SMEs include forming corporative structures in negotiations with bigger actors. However, there is a reluctance to resort to legal action. The cost of whistle-blowing is often too high. Access to judicial systems should be facilitated and alternative dispute resolution means should be pursued. The effectiveness of national rules in place to penalise unfair practices needs to be further analysed by the Commission to determine which solutions work and whether further action is needed. Dealing with unfair practices Over the past months, the Rapporteur has encouraged all parties concerned to move from finger-pointing and denial to direct dialogue . The Rapporteur suggests three options rather than recommending a firm solution, considering that the Experts Platform on B2B contractual practices is still in its initial phase and will last another two years. - Intensifying discussions underway in the Expert Platform to assess and deal with unfair practices. As a step towards establishing facts, the Rapporteur welcomes the survey on unfair practices recently conducted by CIAA (Confederation of the Food and Drinks Industries) and AIM (European Brands Association). - Setting up a new forum, extending the scope beyond the agro-food industrial policy and focusing specifically on retail as a whole. - Ideally, kick-starting of voluntary initiatives by the business community. Progress has been made and signs of willingness to recognise problems and to engage in constructive dialogue are emerging. The Rapporteur strongly hopes that the intense consultation underway will develop into self-regulation and concrete commitments, such as ‘regular dialogue’ and adherence to ethical principles. Any option should not duplicate the work of the Experts Platform, but rather support the process underway. The Rapporteur recommends gathering EU institutions and stakeholders at a yearly Retail Market Roundtable to follow-up on progress made in the dialogue. VI. Enhancing efficiency and sustainability − innovative practices Retail plays a major role in developing a