starring Pierce Brosnan, Rene Russo and Denis Leary, is a remake of the 1968 film of the same name.", " The film generally received positive reviews.", " It was a success at the box office, grossing $124 million worldwide." ] ], [ "Dick Johnson (glider pilot)", [ "Richard H. Johnson (January 10, 1923 – July 23, 2008) was a glider pilot, aeronautical engineer and prolific writer of articles for gliding magazines.", " He was an 11-time U.S. National Champion glider pilot, 9-time US Soaring Team pilot at the Soaring World Championships, held two World Gliding Records and is a member of the US Soaring Hall of Fame.", " He flew for 70 years and logged over 14,000 flying hours, including over 10,000 hours of non-powered flight time in sailplanes.", " He authored over 100 articles on soaring and flight tests of gliders." ] ], [ "FAA Practical Test", [ "A practical test, more commonly known as a checkride, is the Federal Aviation Administration examination which one must undergo in the United States to receive an aircraft pilot's certification, or an endorsement for additional flight privileges.", " The name refers to the portion of the examination in which the candidate being examined flies in an aircraft with the Designated Pilot Examiner or other authorized examiner to demonstrate competency in the skills that are required for the certification.", " Although \"checkride\" is the most commonly used term, it is considered informal and is technically known as a Practical Test by the FAA and in all its literature, and the specific objectives which the candidate must meet are called the Practical Test Standards, or PTS." ] ], [ "Karl Striedieck", [ "Karl H. Striedieck II (born April 7, 1937 Ann Arbor, Michigan) is a world record setting glider pilot, a member of the U.S. Soaring Hall of Fame, and an active Holocaust denier.", " He was an early pioneer of ridge soaring in the Ridge-and-valley Appalachians in the 1960s, ultimately setting nine world records flying gliders there.", " He was selected for the U.S. national soaring team 12 times, and won a silver medal in the world championships in 1978 and 1983." ] ], [ "Thomas Knauff", [ "Thomas L. Knauff (born 1938) is an American writer, glider pilot, flight instructor, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Designated Pilot Examiner, and a member of the U.S. Soaring Hall of Fame.", " He was an early pioneer of ridge soaring in the Ridge-and-valley Appalachians in the 1960s, ultimately setting five world records flying gliders there.", " He was the stunt pilot in the 1999 film \"The Thomas Crown Affair\"." ] ], [ "Designated Pilot Examiner", [ "In the United States, a Designated Pilot Examiner (commonly referred to as a DPE) is a senior pilot designated by the FAA to conduct oral examinations and inflight or flight simulator checkrides (collectively called \"practical tests\") with pilot applicants to determine their suitability to be issued a Pilot Certificate or additional rating on their Pilot Certificate.", " Certain DPEs also have authority to issue Flight Instructor Certificates and associated additional ratings.", "