Answer given by Mrs Kroes on behalf of the Commission (14 March 2006) Such problems as raised in the question are, regrettably, hardly new in Ingushetia, where international non-governmental organisations (NGO) have repeatedly experienced pressures of various kinds from the authorities. This interference is clearly unfortunate, not to say unacceptable. Yet it is too early to judge whether the NGO law itself has had an impact on humanitarian NGOs working in the North Caucasus, particularly in that it does not come into force until April 2006. At the very least, the EU can be satisfied that, thanks to its interventions and those of the rest of the international community — particularly the Council of Europe and the United States, the provisions included in the original draft law, which might effectively have prevented international humanitarian NGOs from continuing their work in the region, have been removed from the final draft. Almost all international humanitarian NGOs working in the region already have the status of branches/representative offices of a foreign-based NGO, still permitted under the new law. Still, the Commission will continue to monitor the situation closely, particularly once the new law comes into effect. The EU intends to raise the issue of the NGO legislation during the next round of human rights consultations with Russia on 3 March 2006, in line with the EU statement issued on 19 January 2006. The Commission has looked into the specific cases cited in the question. It appears that both organisations have now reached an accommodation with the Ingush authorities. It is worth pointing out that the NGO partners of the Humanitarian Aid Directorate-General (ECHO) often have tried and tested means of dealing with such difficulties, in Russia and elsewhere, and that in many cases, NGOs prefer to negotiate with local authorities without ‘official’ intervention by the Commission. The Commission is at hand when such organisations signal their need for assistance (such as when the Commission raised the problems of NGOs operating in the North Caucasus with the Russian authorities, on the occasion of the Heads of Mission Troika visit under the British Presidency in October/November of 2005). The Commission does not intend to reduce its activities in the North Caucasus, despite the current difficulties. On the contrary, it has emphasised to the Russian Federal Government its desire for continued constructive engagement, and has recently committed a further EUR 20 million as a Special Programme for the North Caucasus — on top of the current humanitarian assistance — with an emphasis on recovery and rehabilitation. The Russian authorities have agreed in principle to the implementation of such a programme, and the Commission intends to press forward. Meanwhile, ECHO and its partners will continue to insist upon the need for speed and effectiveness in humanitarian operations in the North Caucasus. The Commission trusts that current difficulties will subside and diminish in due time.