down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at two months. 3. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999 /468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 4. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. Article 8 Monitoring and evaluation The Commission shall present to the European Parliament and the Council: a) not later than 31 December 2005, a report on the implementation of the programme, on the achievement of its objectives and on a possible future programme to replace the present programme. The Commission shall, moreover, report to the European Parliament and to the Council on an annual basis on the implementation of the programme. b) not later than 31 December 2007, a report on the achievement of the programme's objectives. This report shall be based, inter alia, on the outcome of the external evaluation and shall assess the results obtained by the beneficiaries of the programme, in particular as regards the effectiveness, efficiency and content of their actions, considered overall and individually, in achieving the objectives set out in Article 1 and in Annex I. Article 9 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Done at , For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX I 1. ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED The general objective laid down in Article 1 is to strengthen Community action in the field of culture and increase its effectiveness by supporting the bodies working in this field. This support takes the form of one of two types of grant: – either an operating grant to co-finance expenditure associated with the permanent work programme of a body which pursues an aim of general European interest in the field of culture or an objective forming part of the European Union's policy in this area (parts 1 and 2), – or a grant to co-finance a specific action in this area (part 3). The main activities of these bodies that are likely to contribute to the strengthening and effectiveness of Community action in the field of culture are as follows: – representation of stakeholders at Community level, – dissemination of information on Community action, – networking of bodies active in the cultural field, – representation and informing of the regional and minority language communities of the European Union, – the finding and dissemination of information in the fields of legislation, education and media, – fulfilling the role of cultural 'ambassador', promoting awareness of Europe's common cultural heritage, – preservation and commemoration of the main sites and archives associated with the deportations, symbolised by the memorials which have been raised on the sites of the former camps and other places of mass-civilian martyrdom and extermination, and the keeping alive of the memory of the victims at these sites. 2. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED Grants may be awarded to support the activities carried out by the bodies eligible for Community funding under the programme that fall