Member States have to provide as from 2008, are a first step but that what is really needed are national management declarations. MEPs noted that according to the ECA a large number of errors as well as less than effective monitoring and control systems were caused by "complicated or unclear legal requirements". They therefore urged the Commission to accelerate its simplification exercise. But Member States should be compelled to make the necessary improvements in their control systems, "in particular by imposing payment suspensions and financial corrections", they added. Bulgaria and Romania MEPs voiced support for the temporary suspension of funding to Bulgaria and Romania. They called for quarterly reports from the Commission until the situation is clarified, but also for special reports on the current management and control of all EU funds in Bulgaria and Romania. The report on Romania should also describe progress made in the fight against corruption, they added. MEPs even said that the Commission has not treated the accession of Romania and Bulgaria with the necessary seriousness and that "the Commission disregarded the Copenhagen criteria and misled public opinion and Parliament about the readiness of these Member States to the detriment of the reputation of the Union and the steady development of the Member States in question". Agriculture MEPs were concerned at the very high error level in agriculture - 20% of payments at final-beneficiary level audits turned out to be incorrect. The problems in Greece with the implementation of the Integrated Administration and Control System were considered to be "unacceptable". Many Member States had problems with control systems for rural development funds. According to the Court of Auditors, the Netherlands, Portugal, the UK, France and Spain showed inadequacies with the Single Payment Scheme, whereas Greece, Italy Spain, the UK, France and the Netherlands suffered from a number of systemic shortcomings with regard to area-aid eligibility checks. Structural funds Important problems exist also with the structural policy funds, which show a rate of at least 11% not being properly reimbursed. MEPs were concerned that almost all the financial corrections that had to be imposed under the European Regional Development Fund from 2000 to 2006 were accounted for by Spain and Italy, and to a lesser extent the United Kingdom. Similarly, nearly all corrections under the Cohesion Fund were accounted for by Greece and Spain. For the Social Fund, it was mainly Spain and Italy who accounted for the corrections needed. Good news in research There was also good news: the error rate in research and technological development has gone down dramatically, to just over 2%. NGOs The Budgetary Control committee noted the growing role and number of NGOs in the administration of EU funds. It asked the Commission to review the operating grants for NGOs' headquarters in Brussels and to gradually diminish them, as laid down in the Financial Regulation. It also wants the Commission to compile by the end of this year a comprehensive list of all NGOs which receive EU funds. Approval for EP spending The European Parliament's political authorities also got the stamp of approval,