EU legislation by supporting training programmes aimed at ensuring that stakeholders acquire an adequate understanding of the legislation in force and of their corresponding rights and responsibilities; 77. Calls on the Member States to support innovative activities and doctoral and post-doctoral programmes that will underpin competitiveness and sustainable economic growth; Offerings for specific groups 78. Asks the Member States, as far as vocational education and training are concerned, to take into consideration the individual needs of low-skilled workers, migrant learners, people belonging to an ethnic minority, vulnerable women, the unemployed, people with disabilities and single mothers; recommends at the same time that particular attention be paid to the Roma minority, since attending school and integration at work are key elements in facilitating the social integration of Roma; 79. Calls on the Member States to create pathways for young people with no educational qualifications or qualified at a low level so as to enable them to enter employment, whereby it should also be possible to continue to promote and recognise partial qualifications; calls, given the explosive nature of the problem, for a comprehensive strategy to combat youth and women's unemployment and help Member States establish networks on the ground linking schools, industry, youth services, and young people; 80. Points to the obstacles to integration which third-country nationals face when their qualifications are not recognised; calls on the Commission to assess the impact of the European Qualifications Framework on recognition of the qualifications of third-country nationals; 81. Calls on the Member States, in cooperation with the social partners, to adopt initiatives to effectively assist elderly workers in lifelong learning and vocational training; 82. Sees the opportunity for mobility as an important part of VET, and consequently recommends upgrading the Leonardo da Vinci programme; Flexibility and mobility 83. Welcomes the idea of making cross-border mobility an optional component of vocational education and training and developing the potential of a cross-border labour market for those involved. as is being done with the Leonardo da Vinci Programme; strongly urges stakeholders to increase awareness of the Leonardo da Vinci Programme and other relevant programmes; calls, therefore, for greater promotion of mobility in order to make it easier for young people to gain experience abroad; 84. Calls on the Commission, the Member States and the European Parliament to support and broaden European programmes for the mobility of learners, in particular the Leonardo da Vinci Programme, with a view to promoting greater mobility of trainees in the single market; 85. Believes that vocational education and training should create the conditions for labour mobility, both in the course of initial studies and in the framework of the lifelong learning process; 86. Believes that cross-border mobility in the area of vocational education and training is as important as mobility in the area of general education, and believes that more effort should be put into developing such mobility; 87. Takes the view that better cooperation among the Member States' different education systems – bridging those differences and ensuring mutual recognition of certificates and diplomas among the Member States – should be emphasised in