the most important information for investment decisions. In addition, credit ratings have a regulatory function, recognised by the Community texts applicable to credit and insurance institutions etc. Against this background, it is timely and justified that credit rating agencies should be subject to strict regulation and no longer simply to a code of conduct. Even before the crisis, the Parliament had wanted the activity of credit rating agencies to be better regulated. The Commission's proposal is therefore welcome. It is, on the whole, satisfactory as regards the detail of the regulation. However, it appears unsatisfactory on one essential point: the choice of the method of registration and supervision. The Commission's proposal, the grounds for which can be understood on an institutional level, suggests a complicated procedure for registration and surveillance. The rapporteur doubts its real effectiveness from the point of view of the objectives pursued. It is important not to lose sight of the fact that the reason for this regulation is the serious financial crisis that we are experiencing. This crisis demonstrates that supervision and regulation of financial institutions has not always been as effective as one would have wished. Today, it is a question of drawing lessons from experience, including in the areas which until now have not been regulated. As regards credit rating agencies, it is important to ensure, as far as possible, that the regulation will have the positive effects that are expected. It cannot be denied that credit rating agencies are very few in number, that they have a global field of activity and that their head offices are mostly located outside of the Community. This raises various questions, the first being that of the effectiveness of strictly European regulation. It is clear that cooperation between the Community and third countries will have to be pursued and enhanced in order to lay down a harmonised regulatory foundation. European regulation must centralise responsibility for registration and supervision, at the same time as establishing good cooperation between the European regulator and the relevant authorities in the Member States. Consequently, the rapporteur proposes that the CESR be made the linchpin of the regulation's implementation. For the rest, the regulation should clearly define the various obligations of the credit rating agencies to guarantee their independence, transparency, good governance and the prevention and handling of conflicts of interest. On the whole, these points are addressed in a satisfactory way in the proposal for a regulation. However, two questions deserve particular attention. Bearing in mind the importance of credit ratings, it seems advantageous not to limit the regulation to regulatory purposes and to lay down general rules for all issuing of credit ratings with the only exception being the exclusions explicitly stated in the regulation. In addition, it is a good principle that credit ratings that are published and can be used in the Community must indeed be drawn up by agencies with a legal base in the Community and consequently subject to European regulation. Nevertheless, we should be realistic. Agencies established in the Community and subject to European regulation are not necessarily