24.4.2007 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Edward McMillan-Scott, Bernd Posselt, Ria Oomen-Ruijten, Tunne Kelam, Eija-Riitta Korhola, Simon Coveney on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on the recent repression of demonstrations in Russia European Parliament resolution on the recent repression of demonstrations in Russia The European Parliament , – having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas Russian opposition members rallied in Moscow's Pushkin Square on 14 April 2007, B. whereas the so-called Dissenters' March was organized by Another Russia, an umbrella group including various political movements from unrepentant communists and free-market reformers to far-right ultranationalists whose only uniting characteristic is their common opposition to President Putin and his government, C. whereas minutes after the march began, the 2000 protesters found themselves outnumbered more than four to one by security forces which quickly dispersed the activists, beating and briefly detaining those who sought to break through the riot-control lines, D. whereas among those detained were the leader of the United Civic Front, former world chess champion Garry Kasparov and Maria Gaidar, the daughter of Russia's first post-Soviet reformist prime minister; former prime minister Mikhail Kasyanov only avoided arrest because his bodyguards helped him to escape; many journalists, including ARD correspondent Stephan Stuchlik, who tried to capture the events and disseminate them to the West, were also beaten and arrested, E. whereas on 15 April another protest, albeit far smaller, organised by the same grouping, was broken up in a similar way in St. Petersburg, though Garry Kasparov was detained before the protest even began, F. whereas Vladimir Lukin, Russia's human rights ombudsman, said that he believed police in both cities had exceeded their authority and whereas Valentina Matviyenko, the governor of St. Petersburg, ordered a probe into human rights violations at the rally in St. Petersburg, G. whereas as a member of the United Nations, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Council of Europe, the Russian Federation has undertaken to respect freedom of speech and of assembly; whereas observance of these principles is of particular importance in view of the forthcoming elections in Russia, 1. Strongly condemns the use of excessive force by the Russian police during last weekend's peaceful demonstrations in Moscow and St. Petersburg and calls on the Russian authorities to comply with their international obligations and to respect freedom of expression and freedom of assembly; 2. Condemns in particular the repressive actions used by the security forces against journalists doing their professional duty; considers such assaults on the media unacceptable; 3. Calls on the Russian authorities to order an investigation into the human rights violations at both rallies and to identify and bring to justice those responsible for the violations; 4. Encourages the Russian State Duma to set up a working group to investigate why such force was used against peaceful demonstrators; 5. Expects the Russian government to provide convincing