the accession criteria, the Commission says. For Bulgaria and Romania, accession in 2007 remains the firm focus. Turkey needs to make further efforts in the strengthening of the judiciary, the exercise of fundamental freedoms of expression, association and religion, reducing the role of the military in civil domains and the situation in the Southeast of the country and cultural rights. Commission Commission President Romano PRODI said he was convinced that the accession of the new Member States next year would bring no problems as regards the implementation of European legislation. He acknowledged that there were still issues to solve, including some very important ones, but was confident that all countries would overcome these last obstacles. All the issues identified are manageable, Mr Prodi said, and the Commission has the instruments for the purpose. The next step in the enlargement process is preparing Bulgaria and Romania for accession in 2007. Mr Prodi warned there should be sufficient funds for this accession and the negotiations with these two countries should not depend on the outcome of the debate on the long-term budget from 2007. The benchmark should be the financial framework worked out for the ten countries acceding next year. In autumn 2004, the Commission will present its recommendation on opening accession negotiations with Turkey. There has been considerable progress, but more is needed, both on legislation and on the implementation of the new rights and freedoms now undertaken. Mr Prodi repeated the EU wished to see Cyprus join as a unified country, stressing that this would be in Turkey's interest too, so as to prevent the Cyprus issue from becoming an obstacle to its own aspirations. Commissioner Günter VERHEUGEN stressed that the Commission had only looked at problems which had been identified in earlier reports. There were 1.400 points to be looked at. In 70% of the cases, preparations had gone ahead in due time. In 27% of cases, there are still some efforts to be made, but they are not a cause for worry. However, in 39 out of the 1,400 cases the Commission does have considerable worries about significant delays. Here, urgent and decisive measures are called for. These 39 problems are distributed over all ten countries, without any ranking. The fact that Poland is mentioned more often, does not mean it is doing worse than the others. Many of the problems could only occur in Poland, which is the biggest country. Mr Verheugen was convinced that the problems could be solved before May next year. If not, then the Commission will take the necessary measures. There are various possibilities, such as the safeguard clauses provided for, the specific measures laid down in the Accession Treaty and the usual measures in the EU Treaty. In most cases, Mr Verheugen said, it would not be called upon to take these measures. If they are not solved in time, this will have negative consequences for the countries involved and not for the EU. Thus if the structures for agricultural payments are not in place, then there will be no money arriving for the