the business object ive , including an explanation of the cross-border component of the business object ive of the SPE, where appropriate; (c) the share capital of the SPE; (c) the share capital of the SPE; (ca) the list of shareholders in accordance with Article 15; (d) the share classes and the number of shares in each share class; (d) the share classes and the number of shares in each share class; (e) the total number of shares; (e) the total number of shares; (f) the nominal value or accountable par of the shares; (f) the nominal value or accountable par of the shares; (g) the articles of association of the SPE; (g) the articles of association of the SPE; (h) where the SPE was formed as a result of a transformation, merger or division of companies, the resolution on the transformation, merger or division that led to the creation of the SPE. (h) where the SPE was formed as a result of a transformation, merger or division of companies, the resolution on the transformation, merger or division that led to the creation of the SPE. 3. The documents and particulars referred to in paragraph 2 shall be provided in the language required by the applicable national law. 3. The documents and particulars referred to in paragraph 2 shall be provided in the language required by the applicable national law. 4. Registration of the SPE may be subject to only one of the following requirements: 4. Registration of the SPE shall be subject to at least one of the following requirements: (a) a control by an administrative or judicial body of the legality of the documents and particulars of the SPE; (a) a control by an administrative or judicial body of the legality of the documents and particulars of the SPE; (b) the certification of the documents and particulars of the SPE. (b) the certification or legal authentication of the documents and particulars of the SPE. 5. The SPE shall submit any change in the particulars or documents referred to in points (a) to (g) of paragraph 2 to the register within 14 calendar days of the day on which the change takes place. After every amendment to the articles of association, the SPE shall submit its complete text to the register as amended to date. 5. The SPE shall submit any change in the particulars or documents referred to in points (a) to (g) of paragraph 2 to the register within 14 calendar days of the day on which the change takes place. After every amendment to the articles of association, the SPE shall submit its complete text to the register as amended to date. The second sentence of paragraph 1 and paragraph 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 6. The registration of an SPE shall be disclosed. 6. The registration of an SPE shall be disclosed. Justification The list of shareholders is now added to the documents that the company has to deposit and display at the register (para 2). Together with allowing more options of control (para 4) and expanding