News Report : 28-09-2004 Brussels, 28 September 2004 Hearing of Dalia Grybauskait ė (budget) Dalia Grybauskaitė, Commissioner-designate for Lithuania, who will take responsibility for financial planning and the budget, reaffirmed the importance of greater flexibility in the use of Community funds and spoke in defence of the outgoing Commission's proposals for the next financial framework during her hearing by the Committee on Budgets on Tuesday. The system of own resources, the generalised correction system and the future of cohesion policy were among other subjects discussed. The EU's budget, "some of whose priorities are ten years old" , needs adjustment, Mrs Grybauskaitė explained, pointing the finger in passing at the common agricultural policy, which she described as "out of date and obsolete" . "We need a budget which can be a catalyst for economic and social progress. The success of the Lisbon Strategy depends on this and requires action now, not procrastination" , she observed during her presentation, the central theme of which was "swift and sustainable economic growth as a priority for the enlarged EU" . If the reforms were delayed, "we would be in danger of compromising not only the Lisbon Strategy but the very idea of European integration, and plunging our people into pessimism and fear." Financial Perspective: a new flexibility The keystone of the Commission's legislative proposals for the 2007-2013 financial framework is the idea of greater flexibility, and Mrs Grybauskaitė strongly defended this. This new "flexibility with regard to reallocation" would enable the budgetary authority to reallocate appropriations, within certain limits, between expenditure items. "That would make it possible to cope with new priorities without constantly coming up against the ceilings for the various categories" she explained to Anne Elisabet JENSEN (ALDE, DK). On the subject of ceilings, Mrs Grybauskaitė drew a veil over the question of limiting payment appropriations as called for by the net contributors: "Choose between an expenditure ceiling of 1% or 1.4% of GNI? There is no point in commenting on that. We just have to know what our priorities are" , she replied to László SURJÁN (EPP-ED, HU). Own resources: first assess the current system On the other hand, caution was required when it came to revising the system of own resources. "The existing system is satisfactory and should not be altered on the basis of purely political demands" , Dalia Grybauskaitė said, playing down the idea of a European tax. "This idea would be impossible to sell. The public simply is not ready for it, and nothing indicates that the Council would be likely to support a eurotax unanimously" , she said in reply to Jutta HAUG (PES, DE). In answer to Markus FERBER (EPP-ED, DE) and Esko SEPPÄNEN (GUE/NGL, FI), the Commissioner-designate said she was in favour of an equitable generalised correction system as proposed by the Commission in July: "The correction system which favours one country has now been in force for twenty years. It is time to remedy that, while maintaining a reasonable attitude." The future of cohesion policy and the Structural Funds Another fundamental element in the proposals