participation of women in the political, economic and social decision-making process; f) gender mainstreaming in the six priority areas of EC development policy; g) the importance of paying special attention to the education of girls, and to the fact that the situation of unequal opportunities for girls could start to be redressed by recruiting and training local female teachers. Chapter II Implementation of aid Article 6 1. Financial support pursuant to this Regulation shall take the form of grants or contracts. 2. A grant may finance the entire costs of an action only if it is shown that this is essential for it to be carried out, with the exception of actions resulting from the implementation of financing agreements with third countries or actions managed by international organisations. In other cases, a financial contribution from the beneficiaries defined in Article 7 shall be sought. In specifying the amount of the contribution requested, regard shall be given to the capacity of the partners concerned and the nature of the operation in question. 3. Contracts with beneficiaries may cover the financing of their operating expenditure, in accordance with the provisions of Article 4, paragraph 3, point b of this Regulation . 4 . The provision of financial assistance under this Regulation may entail co-financing with other donors, in particular with Member States, the United Nations, and international or regional development banks or financial institutions. Article 7 1. The partners eligible for financial assistance under this Regulation include: a) administrative authorities and agencies at national, regional and local government levels ; b) b ) local communities, NGOs, particularly those operating in the field of gender equality, women's organisations, community-based organisations, trade unions, and other not-for-profit natural and legal persons; c) the local private sector; d) regional organisations; e) international organisations, such as the United Nations and its agencies, funds and programmes, as well as development banks, financial institutions, global initiatives, international public/private partnerships; f) research and development studies institutes and universities. 2. Without prejudice to paragraph 1(e), Community financial assistance in the form of grants shall be available to partners whose head office is located in a Member State or in a third country that is a beneficiary or potential beneficiary of Community assistance under this Regulation, provided that this office is the actual centre directing business operations. In exceptional cases, this office may be located in another third country. Priority will be given to endogenous structures that can play a role in developing local capacities with respect to gender. Article 8 1. Where operations are the subject of financing agreements between the Community and the recipient country, such agreements shall stipulate that the payment of taxes, duties or any other charges is not to be covered by the Community. 2. All financing agreements, grant agreements or contracts concluded pursuant to this Regulation shall provide for the Commission and the Court of Auditors to conduct on-the-spot checks in accordance with the usual procedures laid down by the Commission under the rules in force, in particular those of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget