Answer given by Mr Spidla on behalf of the Commission (26 January 2005) 1. The Commission is aware of the ongoing discussion in the United Kingdom (UK) on funding difficulties faced by final salary pension schemes, and of the winding up of the final salary scheme of the company APW. The Commission has drawn the attention of the Member States to the necessity to ensure that private pension provision is adequate and financially sound This is also one of the common objectives agreed by the Member States within the Open method of Coordination see: Joint report by the Commission and the Council "Adequate and sustainable pensions", 2003. in particular with a view to the increasingly important role played by private pension provision in ensuring adequate income protection in old age. 2. Managing occupational pension schemes, including the establishment and winding up of schemes as well as the definition of benefit levels and eligibility conditions, is a responsibility of employers and employees who exercise this freedom within the framework of national and EU law. Employers and employees must be free to renegotiate terms and conditions (including pension rights) linked to the employment relationship in order to be able to adapt to changing economic circumstances. 3. EU legislation does, however, seek to ensure that occupational pension rights are protected when a sponsoring company faces economic difficulties or becomes insolvent. Thus, Article 8 of Directive 80/987/EEC on the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employers Council Directive 80/987/EEC of 20 October 1980, OJ L 283, 28.10.1980 obliges Member States ‘to ensure that the necessary measures are taken to protect the interests of employees and of persons having already left the employer's undertaking or business at the date of the onset of the employer's insolvency in respect of rights conferring on them immediate or prospective entitlement to old-age benefits, including survivors' benefits, under supplementary company or inter-company pension schemes outside the national statutory social security schemes.’ The Commission is of the view that an effective protection of current and former employees would require the existence of some form of guarantee in the event of insolvency. In this context, the Commission is currently reviewing the implementation of the aforementioned Article in the Member States, including in the UK. The results of this examination will be available in the second half of 2005. In the particular case referred to by the Honourable Member, there is no information available to the Commission which indicates that the company is insolvent. This would imply that this situation does not fall within the scope of Directive 80/987/EC. It also has to be noted, that the recently adopted Directive on activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (2003/41/EC) Directive 2003/41/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 3 June 2003 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision. OJ L 235, 23.9.2003 . requires the protection of scheme members by separating the assets of the sponsoring undertaking from those of the pension fund. This Directive stipulates that the Member State should require