Post-Briefing - 15-18 January 2007 - Strasbourg 2007-01-22 - 12:29 Welcome of Bulgarian and Romanian MEPs The session was opened by the outgoing President of the European Parliament, Josep Borrell, making his final appearance before standing down. His successor was elected by the House on Tuesday 16 January. Mr Borrell's welcomed the new Members of the European Parliament from Bulgaria and Romania, which joined the EU on 1 January this year. Formation of new political group (Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty (ITS) The President then announced that, in accordance with Rule 29 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, a new political group had been formed, with the title Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty (ITS). The group met the minimum numerical requirements laid down in that rule, since it had 20 Members from 6 different Member States. President Borrell's farewell speech to the House In his final speech to Parliament as President, Mr Borrell delivered a wide-ranging review of the EP's work over the last two and half years. He was convinced that "Parliament is better known and more widely recognised today" than before. Enlargement had been managed successfully, with the MEPs from the new Member States having integrated well into the EP's transnational political groups and taking up many positions of responsibility. Hans-Gert Poettering elected President of the European Parliament MEPs elected Hans-Gert Poettering to be the new European Parliament President. He was elected after the first round of voting. The 61 year old German Christian-Democrat will lead the European Parliament for two and a half years until the next European elections in June 2009. 14 Vice-Presidents and 6 Quaestors elected and ranked The newly elected President of Parliament, Hans-Gert Poettering announced the names of the candidates nominated for the 14 posts of Vice-President of the European Parliament. Since the number of candidates was the same as the number of posts, the President declared all 14 elected by acclamation. The President also announced the names of the nominated candidates for the 6 Quaestor posts. Again, since the number of candidates was the same as the number of posts, the President declared all six elected by acclamation. MEPs debates German Presidency with Chancellor Angela Merkel Giving her first speech to the European Parliament as President-in-Office of the European Council, Chancellor Angela Merkel touched on broad questions relating to the essence and future of Europe as much as the practical details of her government's work programme for the next six months. Chancellor Merkel highlighted the forthcoming Berlin Declaration to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the EU and the need for tolerance. MEPs from the different political groups gave their reactions with the newly elected President chairing the debate. Rome II: - MEPs reintroduce rules on defamation Parliament approved its recommendation for second reading for the Regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, known as Rome II. A number of amendments were approved reintroducing the provisions relating to violations of privacy, including defamation, previously deleted in the Council's Common Position. MEPs condemn Libyan court death sentence on five Bulgarian nurses and Palestinian doctor In adopting a joint resolution by