Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (25 June 2009) The Commission is not aware of any particular increase of problems in relation to the trade in dogs, cats and ferrets within the EU in recent years. Therefore, the Commission does not consider at present that a study on this issue is a priority. As regards animal health, dogs, cats and ferrets intended for trade between Member States must meet the relevant requirements of Directive 92/65/EEC OJ L 146, 13.6.2003. that since 3 July 2003 refers, with regard to specific health requirements, to Regulation (EC) No 998/2003 OJ L 268, 14.9.1992. of the Council and of the Parliament laying down the animal health requirements applicable to the non-commercial movement of pet animals. It is the primary responsibility of the Member States to ensure proper implementation and enforcement of the legislation to prevent illegal trade. The Commission inspection service of Directorate-General Health and Consumer Protection (DG SANCO) (FVO — Food and Veterinary Office located in Grange, Ireland) may also carry out on-the-spot inspections in Member States in order to assure effective control systems and to evaluate compliance with Community requirements. Where Member States fail to do so, the Commission must act in accordance with the Treaty. As regards the welfare of animals, there is presently no Community legislation on the protection of pet animals. This matter is under the sole competence of the Member States. Therefore, the Commission does not have particular information concerning this aspect of the question. The Commission considers that comprehensive Community legislation is in place to ensure safe trade in dogs, cats and ferrets within the EU. Since the entry into force of Regulation (EC) No 998/2003, trade rules are simplified while properly protecting public and animal health, in particular with regard to rabies. The Commission foresees to perform a complete evaluation of its policy on the protection and welfare of animals, including the Animal Welfare Action Plan.