President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Your rapporteur believes that now, after more than two years of experience with the physical euro, it is the right time to assess the success, quality and possible problems of Europe's currency. In particular, with regards to euro coins, it is essential that the public is protected against any sort of fraud arising from confusion with closely similar tokens or medals. Since the euro changeover, there have been a rising number of cases of fraudulent use of fake euro coins in coin operated machines. Current EU and national law in this domain has proved inefficient and does not contain sufficient provisions to correctly address these problems. As euro coins circulate in a large number of Member States, it is necessary to have a set of rules respected by all participants. Therefore, in essence, this is a measure aimed at preserving the legal tender status of authentic euro coins and thus avoid any devalorisation of our currency's value and reputation. Your rapporteur agrees with the proposal's intention to regulate the use of the terms “euro” and “euro cent” and of the euro symbol (€) on these metallic objects. The proposal does this by defining the levels of similarity to the euro coins that should be banned for medals and tokens. Indirectly, this also gives clear guidelines for those companies ("token manufacturers") producing such medals and tokens to remain within the law. On the other hand, the Commission has extensively consulted representatives of the coin operated industry, which seems to be in favour of a regulatory framework such as the one before you, as the cost that is caused by fraud in vending machines is likely to be reduced if the proposal is enacted. Finally, it should be noted that the main proposal is accompanied by another one aimed at extending the scope of the Regulation to those countries which concluded an agreement with the EU on the use of the euro - Monaco, San Marino and the Vatican City. Your rapporteur has analysed the text of the two proposed Council regulations and has no objections. He therefore proposes to approve the texts without amendments. He wishes to express the continued full-hearted support of the European Parliament for the historic project of Economic and Monetary Union and its single currency, the euro.