Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (8 February 2011) Through the liberalisation of air transport in the 1990s, the EU paved the way for a competitive aviation sector in Europe. The Commission will ensure that the sector remains competitive and becomes more sustainable by pursuing a comprehensive approach to reducing the environmental impacts of aviation. — First, air transport in Europe stands to benefit from a further integration and consolidation of air traffic management in the framework of the creation of the Single European Sky (SES). The completion of the SES and the full deployment of the results achieved by the SESAR initiative will be among the priorities of European transport policy in this decade. It is expected to reduce the fuel consumption of each flight by up to 10 %. — Second, the Commission will continue to fund research projects such as the Clean Sky Joint Technology Initiative which further improve the environmental impact of aircraft by applying innovative technologies. They should reduce the CO 2 emissions of new aircraft by up to 40 % compared with 2000 levels. — Third, in terms of carbon dioxide emissions, air transport is included in the European Union's emission trading system (EU ETS) from 2012 Directive 2008/101/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 amending Directive 2003/87/EC so as to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community, OJ L 8, 13.1.2009. . This market-based measure offers a clear incentive for airlines to reduce CO 2 emissions and ensures that any further growth in aviation emissions is offset by reductions elsewhere in the economy. In line with the principle of co-modality, European transport policy supports each mode where it is most efficient. High-speed rail can offer an efficient alternative to air transport on a number of journeys. Wherever there is sufficient demand for it to be economically viable to build and run a high-speed rail line, the Commission believes that such a line should be built. Around 30 000 km of high-speed rail lines will eventually form the backbone of the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN‑T). Airports should be connected to this high-speed rail network wherever possible.