with the value of the rights of active scheme members; b) the pension rights in the supplementary pension scheme are set as a nominal sum; c) the inactive scheme member continues to benefit from a rate of interest built into the pension scheme; or d) the value of the dormant pension rights is adjusted in accordance with the inflation rate, salary levels, current pensions or the return on investment intended by the supplementary pension provider. 3. The Member States may allow supplementary pension schemes not to preserve vested rights but to pay a capital sum equivalent to the value of the vested pension rights to the outgoing worker, as long as the value of the vested pension rights does not exceed any threshold established by the Member State concerned. The Member State shall inform the Commission of any threshold applied. 4. The Member States may allow the social partners to include in collective agreements arrangements not covered by paragraphs 2 and 3, as long as those arrangements provide at least equivalent protection for the people concerned. Article 6 Information 1. Without prejudice to the obligations of the institutions for occupational retirement provision stemming from Article 11 of Directive 2003/41/EC, to provide information to members and beneficiaries, the Member States shall adopt the measures they deem to be necessary to ensure that active pension scheme members can request information on how a termination of employment will affect their supplementary pension rights , in accordance with paragraph 2 . 2. Sufficient information shall be provided in writing and within a reasonable period of time to active pension scheme members who request it. Such information shall relate, in particular, to the : a) conditions governing the establishment of supplementary pension rights and the effects of applying them when an employment relationship is terminated; b) pension benefits envisaged when an employment relationship is terminated; and c) amount and preservation of dormant pension rights . 3. An inactive scheme member who so requests shall receive from the person responsible for managing the supplementary pension scheme information on dormant pension rights and on all changes to the rules governing the supplementary pension scheme concerning them . Article 7 Minimum requirements - non-regression 1. The Member States may adopt or maintain provisions on the establishment and preservation of supplementary pension rights by outgoing workers which are more favourable than those set out in this Directive. 2. The implementation of this Directive may not under any circumstances be used as a reason for cutting back the existing provisions in the Member States for the establishment and preservation of supplementary pension rights by outgoing workers . Article 8 Implementation 1. Member States shall adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 1 July 2008, or they shall ensure that, by that date, the social partners introduce the required provisions by way of agreement. The Member States shall take the necessary steps enabling them at all times to guarantee the results imposed by this Directive. They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof. 2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1