50) The facts According to the letter from the German Public Prosecutor, Mr Brok failed to include a fee of EUR 5 000 for a speech (for which tax was due on EUR 2 900) in his income tax declaration for 2005 and this omission may constitute an offence under Section 370, 1(2) of the German Fiscal Code ( Abgabenordnung ). Section 370, 1(2) reads as follows in the official English translation Übersetzung der Abgabenordnung durch den Sprachendienst des Bundesministeriums der Finanzen.Translation provided by the Language Service of the Federal Ministry of Finance. © 2010 juris GmbH, Saarbrücken. : Section 370 Tax evasion (1) A penalty of up to five years imprisonment or a monetary fine shall be imposed on whoever 1. ... 2. fails to inform the revenue authorities of facts of substantial significance for taxation when obliged to do so, or 3. ... and as a result understates taxes or derives unwarranted tax advantages for himself or for another person. The offence of tax evasion within the meaning of Section 370 requires mens rea, that is to say it is punishable only where the taxpayer knew of the tax evasion and intended to evade tax (see Section 15 of the German Penal Code ‘Unless the law expressly provides for criminal liability based on negligence, only intentional conduct shall attract criminal liability’. and Section 369, 2 of the Fiscal Code ‘Tax crimes shall be subject to the general provisions of criminal law unless otherwise provided for by the tax laws provisions on crime’. ). In this case, there was manifestly no intention to evade tax since, as appears from the letter from the Public Prosecutor, the amount in question was paid transparently into the Member’s current account after having been invoiced by him to the company Speakers’ Agency. It follows also that that amount also appears in the books of that company. Furthermore, it is a matter of common knowledge and was confirmed by Mr Brok’s lawyer at his hearing that the accidental omission to declare such comparatively minor sums as that involved in this case is dealt with normally under an administrative procedure. It is quite common for small sums of unpaid tax to be turned up as a result of routine inspections of bank accounts and recovered by administrative procedures. Indeed, when Mr Brok was apprised of the fact that he was accused of tax evasion, he paid the amount due, had his accounts for 2001 to 2008 audited by a tax adviser and regularised certain other minor irregularities found. The fact that this omission was dealt with in such a manner, whereby Mr Brok was not even directly informed of the charges laid against him, is completely exceptional. Indeed, that the State Prosecutor stated in his letter to Parliament that ‘I have refrained from informing the Member of the intention to make him the subject of an investigation, because it is not possible at this stage to exclude the possibility that he has received additional income from similar sources of which the relevant tax authorities are as yet