attacks occurred in the vicinity of the UN peacekeeping camp which is located only 20 miles from the town of Luvungi, C. whereas it appears that UN workers knew rebels had occupied Luvungi town and surrounding villages in eastern Congo the day after the attacks began on July 30 and the UN Headquarters in New York did not learn about the rapes until 12 August, D. whereas the UN Mission in the DRC (MONUSCO) has a mandate under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter to use all necessary means to carry out its protection mandate, including the effective protection of civilians, humanitarian personnel and human rights defenders under imminent threat of physical violence from any foreign or Congolese armed group; to support Government efforts to fight impunity and ensure the protection of civilians from violations of international human rights and humanitarian law, including all forms of sexual and gender-based violence, E. whereas the conflict affecting the DRC has claimed the lives of 6 million people since 1998 and is still causing, either directly or indirectly, thousand of deaths and internally displaced people (IDPs) every month, F. whereas the civil war in the DRC has resulted in vast numbers of people being internally displaced to the relatively safer eastern Congo, now home to over 1 600 000 refugees, G. whereas the situation in the refugee camps continues to deteriorate, H. whereas the fighting between the Congolese army, the Mai Mai militia, the fighters of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), the Popular Front for Justice in Congo (FPJC) and the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) continue to cause civilian populations in the DRC unbearable suffering and poverty, I. whereas Congolese army soldiers have been implicated in the death and rape of hundreds of civilians and whereas rapes, forced recruitments of civilian and child soldiers and serious human rights abuses in the eastern parts of the DRC, both by LRA rebel troops, FDLR combatants and the Congolese army itself continue, J. whereas by invoking sovereignty, the Congolese government has called for the withdrawal of the UN mission (MONUSCO) to be completed by summer 2011 and has announced that it will take charge of organizing the general elections, saying it has failed in its primary mandate to protect civilians and because MONUSCO has been accused of supporting army units responsible for grave atrocities, K. whereas women are traditionally disproportionate victims of war and subject to barbaric behaviour, L. whereas UN figures show 1244 women have been raped in DRC during the first three months of this year; whereas in DRC at least 200 000 cases of sexual violence have been recorded since 1996 and the numbers could be much higher because of under-reporting; whereas those rapes are mainly committed in mineral-rich areas of the Kivu where armed groups are involved in illegal mining, M. whereas the Congolese army continues to have insufficient human, technical and financial resources to carry out its tasks in the eastern provinces of the DRC, coupled with a lack of discipline amongst its ranks, which continues to hamper