an integral part of the company’s ‘entire business’ and not obliging ELAS to provide adequate technical provisions for them, the UK regulators indirectly contributed to ELAS’ downfall at the time of the House of Lords ruling and therefore did not pay due regard to the PRE they were supposed to defend, possibly breaching the letter and spirit of Article 18 of the 3LD. For further information on this point, see Part III on Regulatory Action. Article 21 - Assets included/excluded in technical provisions (Article 23 of CD) Summary of objectives This article prescribes the type of assets that can be authorised to cover technical provisions (Article 18) and lays down some principles on the valuation of the authorised assets. It also gives power to the regulator to accept other categories of assets as cover for technical provisions in exceptional circumstances and at an assurance undertaking's request. This must be temporary and under a properly reasoned decision. Text of the article Article 21 1. The home Member State may not authorize assurance undertakings to cover their technical provisions with any but the following categories of assets: A. Investments (a) debt securities, bonds and other money- and capital-market instruments; (b) loans; (c) shares and other variable-yield participations; (d) units in undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities and other investment funds; (e) land, buildings and immovable property rights; B. Debts and claims (f) debts owed by reassurers, including reassurers' shares of technical provisions; (g) deposits with and debts owed by ceding undertakings; (h) debts owed by policy-holders and intermediaries arising out of direct and reassurance operations; (i) advances against policies; (j) tax recoveries; (k) claims against guarantee funds; C. Others (l) tangible fixed assets, other than land and buildings, valued on the basis of prudent amortization; (m) cash at bank and in hand, deposits with credit institutions and any other body authorized to receive deposits; (n) deferred acquisition costs; (o) accrued interest and rent, other accrued income and prepayments; (p) reversionary interests. In the case of the association of underwriters known as Lloyd's, asset categories shall also include guarantees and letters of credit issued by credit institutions within the meaning of Directive 77/780/EEC (¹) or by assurance undertakings, together with verifiable sums arising out of life assurance policies, to the extent that they represent funds belonging to members. (¹) First Council Directive 77/780/EEC of 12 December 1977 on the coordination of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions (OJ No L 322, 17. 12. 1977, p. 30). Directive as last amended by Directive 89/646/EEC (OJ No L 386, 30. 12. 1989, p. 1). The inclusion of any asset or category of assets listed in the first subparagraph shall not mean that all these assets should automatically be accepted as cover for technical provisions. The home Member State shall lay down more detailed rules fixing the conditions for the use of acceptable assets; in this connection, it may require valuable security or guarantees, particularly in the case of debts owed by reassurers. In