Question for written answer E-000733/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Andreas Mölzer (NI) (7 February 2011) Subject: Turkish rape broadcasts One third of television viewers in Turkey have followed the rape series ‘What is Fatmagül’s crime?’ Turkish TV broadcasters show violent scenes round the clock in which women are beaten by men, tied to beds or raped. Not only do these programmes achieve astonishingly high viewing figures: advertisers also benefit from the hype, for example with Fatmagül-themed underwear. Nowadays, thanks to satellites (Türksat 3A and Eutelsat W3A), the channel can be received worldwide. ‘What is Fatmagül’s crime?’ can therefore also be viewed by households in Europe. According to a study by the Turkish Institute of Sexual Health, 40 % of Turkish women have been on the receiving end of violence, and 20 % of them have suffered sexual violence. The image of the submissive woman is prevalent in society. If a woman is raped, it is assumed that she must have provoked it. When a young girl from Mardin was raped at the age of 12 by a gang of 27 men, the courts had no sympathy. The accused were not remanded in custody for a single day before the trial and they received light sentences. Turkish women’s organisations complain that the series ‘What is Fatmagül’s crime?’ legitimises rape, and therefore wish it to be halted. Instead, the television watchdog sees a need to intervene elsewhere: a television station has received a warning on account of an obscene perfume advertisement because a woman sunbathing in a bikini on a yacht is seen to kiss a man in swimming trunks. Turkey’s Minister of Women’s Affairs and the Family, Selma Aliye, has criticised kissing in TV series as immoral. 1. Will the Commission support Turkish women’s organisations in this connection? 2. Will the Commission raise this issue at EU level so that, if appropriate, measures can be taken (including at national level) to prevent reception of Turkish rape broadcasts in homes in the EU? 3. What impact will this situation have on the EU accession negotiations as regards human rights and the status of women?