would, say MEPs, undermine the establishment of a lasting peace in the region and also prejudice the development of international criminal justice. Financial contributions needed urgently from all states The court currently receives financial support from the EU through the EIDHR. In addition, EU Member States, especially the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, have contributed consistently. Parliament urges "all States, including EU Member States, to contribute further to the operations of the Special Court for Sierra Leone in order to ensure that the Special Court can take its work to a successful conclusion". It also asks the European Commission "to provide continuing funding for the Special Court in the forthcoming national programmes with Sierra Leone" and "calls on the UN Secretary-General, in consultation with the UN Security Council, to explore all the possible financial ways to enable the Special Court to complete its crucial functions". -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-016-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-018-EN DOC XML V0//EN Fisheries Maximum Sustainable Yield - time is not ripe to propose introduction, says the EP 2007-09-10 - 13:45 The European Parliament deplores the "deficient analysis" and "inadequate solutions" offered by the Commission's communication "Implementing sustainability in EU fisheries through maximum sustainable yield (MSY)". In a report adopted the House states that "the strict application of MSY would result in the short term in a considerable, and in some cases drastic, reduction in activity, employment and income for the Community fleet." Maximum Sustainable Yield (MSY) is a reference point whose objective is to maximise the economic yield of a fishery in relation to the biological capacity of the stock. In its communication "Implementing sustainability in EU fisheries through maximum sustainable yield", the Commission proposes a change in fisheries regulation through a change in the management model that will allow the sustainable use of fisheries resources in order to guarantee the industry's viability. In the Commission's own words, fisheries should be managed "looking for success rather than to seek merely to avoid failure". In the face of such a challenge as that posed by changing the model of Community fisheries management, "it is regrettable that the Commission communication is somewhat simplistic, since it fails either to give a clear account of the need for this change of approach or to provide a detailed description of the type of model to be opted for", says the rapporteur, Carmen FRAGA ESTÉVEZ (EPP-ED, ES). MEPs deplore the "absence of an in-depth evaluation of what applying an MSY model would actually mean", in terms of its shortcomings, the particularities of its application, and the potential risks of any errors in the model. They regret, notably, the absence of an analysis of the evolution of the MSY concept and the potential advantages of the different approaches. According to the EP, "the time is not ripe to propose the introduction of an MSY system.". MEPs say that a deeper and more rigorous analysis is needed of the problems, shortcomings and