provided only less than 15% of the commercial primary energy in the EU25 and has therefore a limited contribution to climate change. Amendment 2 Recital 6 (6) With reference to the Council Decision of 26 November 2004 amending the directives of negotiations on ITER , the realisation of ITER in Europe , in a broader approach to fusion energy, will be the central feature of the activities on fusion research carried out under the seventh framework programme . (6) With reference to the Council Decision of 26 November 2004 amending the directives of negotiations on ITER Justification Fusion, at best, may be technically viable in 30-50 years and cannot therefore contribute to meeting the climate change targets. The huge budgetary allocation to ITER and fusion research cannot be justified and must be cut and be invested in sustainable energy, health and transport R&D. Amendment 3 Article 2, paragraph 1 1. The seventh Framework programme shall pursue the general objectives set out in Article 1 and Article 2(a) of the Treaty, while contributing towards the creation of a knowledge-based society, building on a European Research Area. 1. The seventh Framework programme shall pursue the general objectives set out in Article 2(a) of the Treaty, while contributing towards the creation of a knowledge-based society, building on a European Research Area. Justification There have been many changes in the world since the Treaties of Rome in 1957 but the Treaty on the Atomic Energy Community – Euratom - remains effectively unaltered. Rather than maintaining an obsolete "task” to promote the “speedy establishment and growth of nuclear industries” (Article 1), the FP7-Euratom should focus only on radiation protection, radioactive waste management and decommissioning, safeguards techniques and technologies and scientific and technical support to the policy making process. Amendment 4 Article 2, paragraph 2 2. The seventh framework programme shall comprise Community research, technological development, international cooperation, dissemination of technical information and exploitation activities as well as training, to be set out in two specific programme s : 2. The seventh framework programme shall comprise the Joint Research Centre and Community research, technological development, international cooperation, dissemination of technical information and exploitation activities as well as training, to be set out in a specific programme: The first programme shall cover the following: The specific programme shall cover the following: (a)Fusion energy research, with the objective of developing the technology for a safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible and economically viable energy source; A) Radiation protection: to increase the understanding and safety of uses of radiation in industry and medicine and minimise exposure to workers and the public from natural and artificial radiation . (b) Nuclear fission and radiation protection with the objective of promoting the safe use and exploitation of nuclear fission and other uses of radiation in industry and medicine. B) Radioactive waste management and decommissioning: development of radioactive waste conditioning and storage technologies and long-term legal and financing schemes on the basis of polluter-pays and precautionary principles . C) Safeguards techniques and technologies D) Scientific and technical support to the policy making process in the nuclear field,