11.1.2006 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on statements by the European Council and Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Cristiana Muscardini, Roberta Angelilli and Inese Vaidere on behalf of the UEN Group on Afghanistan European Parliament resolution on Afghanistan The European Parliament , – having regard to its previous resolutions on Afghanistan, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas on 18 September 2005 elections took place for the lower house of the Afghan Parliament (Wolesi Jirga) and around 50% of eligible voters cast their ballots, B. whereas this exceptional event took place after 10 years of war against the Soviet Union, five years of Taliban government and five years of civil war, C. whereas following the 2004 presidential election, a parliamentary election is the final step in establishing a representative government, D. whereas the electoral process was peaceful despite difficult circumstances in the shape of a country ravaged by many years of war, terrorist threats and continuing military operations in some parts of the country, E. whereas international observers, including the European Union Election Observation Mission, gave a positive assessment of the electoral process, F. whereas former warlords received significant electoral support and whereas the non‑transferable voting system may lead to fragmentation of the parliament, G. whereas there have been numerous reports of intimidation and some cases of candidates, clerics and election workers being killed, H. whereas the continuing violence poses a challenge to the government in large areas of the country and numerous members of the ISAF forces and the Afghan police force are sacrificing their lives in order to restore and secure peace in Afghanistan, I. whereas the government and economy of Afghanistan are fragile and the country depends on political, economic and military external assistance, J. whereas the European Union and its Member States disbursed approximately1.7 billion euros in 2002-2003 on reconstruction and humanitarian aid for Afghanistan and have pledged a further 2.2 billion for the years 2004-2006, K. whereas 23 EU-Member States have contributed to creating the ISAF forces which have assumed a key role in providing security for Afghanistan, L. whereas Afghanistan is an important arena for broad international cooperation between the European Union, the USA and other democratic countries with the aim of bringing peace and stability, reconstructing the country and creating a stable democratic government, M. whereas Afghanistan is one of the world's biggest producers of narcotics, with approximately 90% of the heroin sold in Western Europe thought to originate from Afghanistan, 1. Welcomes the successful and peaceful conduct of the first free and democratic parliamentary elections in Afghanistan in over 30 years and considers this a cornerstone of democracy and an important step towards securing a peaceful future for the country; 2. Regrets that the electoral system may make the establishment of stable democratic parties difficult, but is convinced that, despite the ethnic divisions and conflicts dating back to the war, the Afghan Parliament will form a democratic majority capable of assuming responsibility for continuing the process of reform;