Grail of private international law; urges the Commission to explore the extent to which the 2007 Lugano Convention OJ L 147, 10.6.2009, p. 5. could serve as a model and inspiration for such an international judgments convention; 16. Considers in the meantime that the Community rules on exclusive jurisdiction with regard to rights in rem in immovable property or tenancies of immovable property could be extended to proceedings brought in a third State; 17. Advocates amending the Regulation to allow reflexive effect to be given to exclusive choice-of-court clauses in favour of third States' courts; 18. Takes the view that the question of a rule overturning Owens Bank should be the subject of a separate review; Definition of domicile of natural and legal persons 19. Takes the view that an autonomous European definition (ultimately applicable to all European legal instruments) of the domicile of natural persons would be desirable, in order in particular to avoid situations in which persons may have more than one domicile; 20. Rejects a uniform definition of the domicile of companies within the Brussels I Regulation, since a definition with such far-reaching consequences should be discussed and decided within the scope of a developing European company law; Interest rates 21. Considers that the Regulation should lay down a rule so as to preclude an enforcing court from declining to give effect to the automatic rules on interest rates of the court of the State of origin and applying instead its national interest rate only from the date of the order authorising enforcement under the exceptional procedure; Industrial property 22. Considers that, in order to overcome the problem of ‘torpedo actions’, the court second seised should be relieved from the obligation to stay proceedings under the lis pendens rule where the court first seised evidently has no jurisdiction; rejects the idea, however, that claims for negative declaratory relief should be excluded altogether from the first-in-time rule on the ground that such claims can have a legitimate commercial purpose; considers, however, that issues concerning jurisdiction would be best resolved in the context of proposals to create a Unified Patent Litigation System; 23. Considers that the terminological inconsistencies between Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 (‘Rome I’) Regulation (EC) No 593/2008 of the European Parliament and the Council of 17 June 2008 on the law applicable to contractual obligations (Rome I) (OJ L 177, 4.7.2008, p. 6). and Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 should be eliminated by including in Article 15(1) of the Brussels I Regulation the definition of ‘professional’ incorporated in Article 6(1) of the Rome I Regulation and by replacing the expression ‘contract which, for an inclusive price, provides for a combination of travel and accommodation’ in Article 15(3) of the Brussels I Regulation by a reference to the Package Travel Directive 90/314/EEC Council Directive 90/314/EEC of 13 June 1990 on package travel, package holidays and package tours (OJ L 158, 23.6.1990, p. 59). as in Article 6(4)(b) of the Rome I Regulation; Jurisdiction over individual contracts of employment 24. Calls on the Commission to consider, having regard to the case-law of