Answer given by Mr Kovács on behalf of the Commission (31 October 2008) The Commission takes the problem of increasing price differentials between EU and non-EU tobacco products and the resulting increase in illicit trade very seriously. High price and tax differentials are indeed one of the main reasons behind the substantial amounts of smuggling, in particular of cigarettes, from certain neighbouring countries into the European Union. This issue is regularly raised in the bilateral meetings, such as the Sub-Committees covering customs, trade and economic issues, that the Commission regularly holds with its partner countries in the European Neighbourhood Policy. The Commission will also ensure that this area is covered in any agreements that the EU will conclude with these countries; the objective is to include provisions in which the contracting parties explicitly commit to develop cooperation and harmonise policies in counteracting and fighting fraud and smuggling of excisable products, including the alignment of taxation policy ( inter alia gradual approximation of excise rates for cigarettes). Furthermore, the fight against illicit trade is mainly the responsibility of Member States. Nevertheless, the Commission is playing a key role in the ongoing negotiations in the World Health Organisation (WHO) to elaborate a Protocol on the illicit trade in tobacco products. The aim of the Protocol is to develop an internationally binding legal instrument to combat the illicit trade in tobacco products. The neighbouring third countries from which some of the most serious problems arise with regard to illicit trade are involved in these negotiations. The Commission and 26 Member States have signed Anti-Contraband and Anti-Counterfeit Agreements with Philip Morris International and with Japan Tobacco International. Under these Agreements, the companies, among other things, enhance the tracing and tracking of their products so as to assist law enforcement authorities in combating illegal trade. The companies have agreed to make payments to compensate Member States for the loss of duties and taxes in cases of seizures of genuine cigarettes bearing their trademark.