clear benefit for plant production in the specific conditions of their territory. (28) In the interest of predictability, efficiency and consistency, criteria, procedures and conditions for the authorisation of plant protection products should be harmonised, account being taken of the general principles of protection of human and animal health and the environment. (29) The active substances contained in a plant protection product can be produced by different manufacturing processes, leading to differences in specifications. Such differences may have safety implications. For efficiency reasons, a harmonised procedure at Community level should be provided for the assessment of those differences. (30) To avoid unnecessary duplication of work, to reduce the administrative burden for industry and for Member States and to facilitate more harmonised availability of plant protection products, authorisations granted by one Member State should be notified to other Member States. Member States should be entitled to confirm, reject or restrict the authorisation granted by another Member State on the basis of their specific agricultural needs or to maintain a higher protection level in line with their national action plans. (31) Good administrative co-operation between Member States should be increased during all steps of the authorisation procedure and should be facilitated by a European Helpdesk. (32) The economic interest for industry to apply for an authorisation is limited in certain uses. In order to ensure that diversification of agriculture and horticulture is not jeopardised by the lack of availability of plant protection products, specific rules should be established for minor uses. (33) In exceptional cases, it should be permitted to authorise plant protection products not complying with the conditions provided for in this Regulation, where it is necessary to do so because of a danger or threat to plant production and ecosystems which cannot be contained by any other means. Such temporary authorisations should be reviewed at Community level. (34) To promote innovation, special rules should be established permitting the use of plant protection products in experiments even where they have not yet been authorised. (35) In order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment, plant protection products should be used properly , according to their authorisation, having regard to the principles of integrated pest management and giving priority to non-chemical and natural alternatives wherever possible. The Council shall include in the statutory management requirement referred to in Annex III of Council Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 of 29 September 2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers OJ L 270, 21.10.2003, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1276/2007 (OJ L 284, 30.10.2007, p. 11). the principles of integrated pest management, including good plant protection practice and non-chemical methods of plant protection and pest and crop management . A transitional period should therefore be foreseen to allow Member States to put in place the necessary structures to enable users of plant protection products to apply the principles of integrated pest management and non-chemical alternatives to plant protection and pest and crop management