aim of these directives - the adequate protection of policyholders - was not achieved by UK regulation of ELAS. 2. Grave doubts that any of the 3 EC life directives were successfully transposed Mr. JOSEPHS, in H2, declares that he and his association (Investors Association) " have grave doubts as to whether any of the three EC life directives could have been successfully transposed into the UK regulatory environment, given the differences of philosophy between the Commission's intentions and the way in which the UK system actually worked. " Ms KNOWD, a policyholder, also claims in H2 that " Equitable was non-compliant with EU-regulations over a sustained period of time". 3. The Commission should have been more proactive In H3, Peter SCAWEN from ELTA, believes that, in terms of the role of the Commission in policing the implementation of EU law, it " is to be proactive. I think the failure in the UK was that it was a passive department waiting on events, hoping, fingers crossed, that things might get better. I think that is what took place. I believe they were very well aware but had no idea what to do about it. " It seems that Mr SCAWEN is referring to the UK authorities and not the Commission. 4. 3LD was correctly implemented and UK law already complied with most of it Mr MCELWEE in H3 is of the view that the UK “ implemented the directive correctly. I have not yet seen anything that suggests to me that there was any egregious manner in which it was not properly implemented”. Clive MAXWELL, from HMT, claims in H4 that " the Third Life Directive and its predecessors were correctly transposed into UK domestic law. In fact, the pre-existing UK law already complied to a large extent with the provisions required by the directive ". Mr MAXWELL then listed the pieces of legislation through which the 3LD was transposed into UK law, that is, the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations of 1994, the Insurance Companies Regulations of 1994 and the Insurance Companies (Accounts and Statements) Regulations of 1994. In addition, during H4, David STRACHAN of the FSA claimed that " the UK consistently went beyond the formal requirements of the Third Life Directive in implementing successive investor compensation and ombudsman schemes". 5. The UK Government responsible for transposition Mr MAXWELL, in H4, clarified that " the UK Government is responsible as a matter of law for the correct transposition of directives in the UK . [...] With respect to the correct transposition of European directives in the UK , it is ultimately for the Member State to be responsible for that as a matter of European law." 6. Fragmented transposition does not affect the quality of transposition Responding to a Member's question (H4) on whether if transposition into different acts and regulations has any legal or other significance as to the seriousness with which the Directive and other directives were transposed into UK law, Clive MAXWELL responded with a clear no: " the law is the law: it does