Pesticides legislation: the final lap Environment 2009-01-08 - 16:53 The EU's new legislation on pesticides could soon be in place. Next week in Strasbourg MEPs will vote on two reports endorsing the final shape of the legislation as agreed in negotiations with the Council in December. The legislation will increase the number of pesticide products available in Member States while in due course banning the use of certain dangerous chemicals in these products. Measures to ensure the safer use of pesticides in daily life will also be introduced. Pesticides have a three-stage life-cycle: the placing on the market of new pesticide products; the day-to-day use of pesticides; and the end-of-life or "waste" stage. The legislation submitted to Parliament for approval next week, in two reports, deals only with the first two stages, as waste is covered by other EU laws. The two pieces of legislation have attracted much media attention, partly due to the differing standpoints of various actors (pesticide manufacturers, farmers, health professionals, environmentalists), partly due to misunderstandings over the likely impact of the legislation. 20090108BKG45652 Speedier approval - but stricter standards - for new pesticides The first report, on the placing of new plant protection products on the market, deals with a regulation revising an EU directive from 1991. Procedures for approving new pesticides will be overhauled with the aim of improving environmental and health protection, while boosting competition among manufacturers. The most dangerous pesticides will be phased out over a ten-year period, though some derogations will be allowed. Hiltrud Breyer (Greens/EFA, DE) is the MEP responsible for this report. Substances approved at EU level, products at national level Under the new regulation, a positive list of permitted active substances (the key ingredients of pesticides) will be drawn up at EU level, with the European Food Safety Authority playing a major role. New plant protection products (i.e. pesticides) will then be licensed at national level on the basis of this list. A three-zone EU In fact Member States will license pesticide products at national level or through mutual recognition. The EU will be divided into three zones (north, centre and south) with compulsory mutual recognition within each zone as the basic rule, the assumption being that agricultural, plant health and environmental conditions are comparable within each zone. This should smooth the path for manufacturers wishing to bring new products to market swiftly and increase the number of products available in Member States. However, following pressure from MEPs, individual States will have complete flexibility to adopt additional conditions or restrictions on the use of new pesticides approved within their zone. They will even be able to refuse approval for pesticide products if they can adduce special environmental or agricultural circumstances. The three zones are: North (Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, Sweden), Centre (Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Hungary, Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, United Kingdom) and South (Bulgaria, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Cyprus, Malta, Portugal). Harmful substances banned Most active substances will receive EU approval initially for 10 years, though low-risk substances would receive a 15 year approval (in