responsibility at a global level by using the EU's power to project stability and advance democracy and human rights, with special focus on the neighbouring countries, whilst encouraging development, in particular in Africa, and extending free trade world-wide, H. considering the great importance attached to the intensification of bilateral relationships in general and to the development of a genuine and renewed 'Transatlantic Partnership' in particular, I. whereas the Union needs financial resources commensurate with the scale of its social, economic and political ambitions, A more competitive and cohesive Europe 1. Welcomes the central importance attached to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy as a means of generating competitiveness in the European Union, and supports the measures envisaged, both in these communications and in the Lisbon mid-term review, to try to ensure that the process addresses fewer and more complementary objectives and follows a precise timetable on the delivery of its goals over the next five years; 2. Invites the Commission, as already requested, to adopt the same timetable for reviewing the EU's Sustainable Development Strategy, because it believes environment policy to be an economic opportunity, especially considering its effects on industrial innovation; 3. Stresses the importance of delivery of Lisbon measures by Member States and regions, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in parallel with action at EU level; 4. Insists that all new legislative initiatives must be accompanied by rigorous impact assessments in respect of finance, regulation and the environment; Single Market 5. Reiterates its belief that prominent within the EU's competitiveness agenda should be specific further action to complete the single market, notably in energy, transport, telecommunications, and financial and other services; 6. Stresses that opening up the EU market in services is crucial for enhancing competitiveness, job creation and growth, and supports the early adoption of the directive on the provision of services in the internal market, on the condition that it serves to liberalise the market and enhance growth whilst, in line with the European social model, taking into account the needs in certain specific sectors; considers that the EU cannot afford a failure on the services directive; 7. Invites the Commission to review its proposal for the software patents directive and to bring forward its legislative proposals for an integrated system of general patents; 1. 8. Expects the Commission to take action in the coming months against Member States which have failed to implement EU legislation designed to liberalise markets, notably in the energy and telecom sectors; Financial services 9. Supports, in particular, the adoption of the required directives in the field of financial services and insists that the Commission should focus on securing approval for measures already in the pipeline and avoid bringing forward new proposals unless they were duly justified and assessed; 10. Urges the Commission to ensure that the Lamfalussy process works effectively at each level; recommends that greater political attention be given to the implementation and application of existing legislation in the financial services field; Corporate governance and contract law 11. Applauds the commitment to improving the business environment as regards entrepreneurship