as amended; 2. Calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly, pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty; 3. Calls on the Council to notify Parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 4. Asks the Council to consult Parliament again if it intends to amend the Commission proposal substantially; 5. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Citation 1 - Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 171 thereof, - Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 171 and 173 thereof, Justification In line with the applicable case-law, especially the judgments of 26 March 1987 (Case 45/86, Commission v. Council, ECR 1493), 11 February 1991 (Case 300/89, Commission v. Council, ECR I-2867) and 26 April 1996 (Case C-271/94, Parliament v. Council, ECR I-1689), this amendment aims to enable Parliament to be more fully involved in the creation, development and establishment of the Joint Undertaking. Amendment 2 Recital 2 (2) The project to modernise air traffic management in Europe, hereinafter called the "SESAR project", is the technological element of the single European sky. It aims to give the Community high-performance air traffic control infrastructure which will enable the safe and environmentally friendly development of air transport, benefiting fully from the technological advances of programmes such as Galileo. (2) The project to modernise air traffic management in Europe, hereinafter called the "SESAR project", is the technological element of the single European sky. It aims to give the Community high-performance air traffic control infrastructure which will enable the safe , energy efficient and environmentally friendly development of air transport, benefiting fully from the technological advances of programmes such as Galileo. It also aims to integrate both aircraft speed management, for reasons of energy efficiency, and intensive cooperation with weather forecasting services, so as to reduce the climate change impact of aviation. Justification The higher performance of ATM bears the potential to manage better adapted speed for saving kerosene consumption and allows to guide the planes on routes that are, according to weather forecast, less sensitive for the building of vapour contrails. Amendment 3 Recital 3 (3) The SESAR project aims to integrate and coordinate activities which were previously undertaken in a dispersed and uncoordinated manner in the Community. (3) The SESAR project aims to integrate and coordinate activities which were previously undertaken in a dispersed and uncoordinated manner in the Community , including the most remote and outlying regions thereof, referred to in Article 299(2) of the Treaty. Justification This amendment supplies legal clarification in line with the Treaty. Amendment 4 Recital 6 (6) The definition phase will be followed by a phase to implement the plan to modernise air traffic management in the Community, which will consist of two successive steps : development (2008-2013) and deployment (2014-2020). (6) The definition phase will be followed by two successive phases : a development phase (2008-2013) and a deployment phase (2014-2020). Justification This