ensure timely and correct implementation but also touches upon some of problems, difficulties and constraints the Commission faces in fulfilling its obligation to monitor the implementation of EU law. 1. Transposition Communication of transposition measures Firstly, the Commission checks whether Member States communicate (by the time specified in the Directive itself) the national measures, which are intended to transpose a particular piece of EU legislation. As explained by Mrs. DURAND " regarding non-communication of transposition measures, the Commission carries out systematic controls of all these measures. To this end, it has set up, since 2004, at the level of the Secretariat-General of the Commission, a database which indexes all the directives whose transposition period is under way. All the Member States have adopted this same database and, henceforth, they communicate the transposition measures via this database. Only one correspondent by Member State is permitted to introduce the transposition measures and he or she specifies, at the time each measure is transmitted, if the transmission is still incomplete or finalized" . The Commission claims that this database enables it to constantly have an exact image of the state of the transposition. If, at the expiry of the period of transposition, not all measures are communicated, the Commission immediately begins the infringement procedure (see below for detail on infringement procedure). Mrs. DURAND states that " for the 146 directives to be transposed by the 25 Member States in 2006, the Commission noted late transposition in 900 cases, approximately 8 to 9 Member States by directive. It is to be recalled that, in a majority of cases, the problems are solved within a year. The Commission moves on to the next level of the infringement procedure in approximately 70 cases a year ", adding that " les chiffres des non-communications sont plutôt en diminution dans le temps, [ce qui montre] leur efficacité." H10 Verbatim, page 6, para.9. . Mr. VOGENAUER claimed that the checking of notification by Member States of transposing legislation is " not really done as systematically as you might wish ". He pointed out that " the Commission has only very recently started publicizing the information on national implementing measures " and claimed that the information is not complete and up to date. Checking conformity of transposition measures with EU legislation The Commission subsequently checks whether the national measures that have been communicated are in conformity with the requirements of the EU Directive. Sometimes this work is contracted out to external consultants, as was the case with the Third Life Directive see Wilde Sapte study (WE20). . More often, however, the Directorates-General of the Commission carry out their own analysis. This examination requires both extensive expertise of legal issues and technical knowledge in the field covered by the Directive. Mrs. DURAND explained that " l'examen exige une très bonne connaissance de la directive et ne peut-être fait que par les spécialistes de la matière. Various methods are used according to the content of the directive and its context. Either the text is checked integrally or at least some of his essential provisions