sold 200,000 copies, an unheard-of number for a piece of contemporary classical music at that time." ] ], [ "David S. Sampson", [ "David Sampson (born January 26, 1951, Charlottesville, Virginia) is a composer and professional trumpet player.", " He was Composer-in-Residence with the Colonial Symphony Orchestra from 1998 through 2007.", " He is a recipient a 2014 New Jersey State Council on the Arts Individual Artist Fellowship.", " His major works include The War Prayer for soloists, chorus and orchestra commissioned by the National Endowment for the Arts and premiered by Princeton Pro Musica; Hommage JFK commissioned by the National Symphony Orchestra; Monument commissioned by the Barlow Foundation for the Akron and Memphis symphony orchestras; Turns for Cello and Orchestra commissioned by the Bergen Foundation and cellist Paul Tobias and premiered with the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra; Triptych for trumpet and orchestra commissioned by the International Trumpet Guild and premiered by Raymond Mase at the Aspen Music Festival and with the American Composers Orchestra at Carnegie Hall; Dectet commissioned by the Chicago Chamber Musicians; Elements commissioned by the Elements Quartet; Strata commissioned by the NEA and the American Brass Quintet; Jersey Rain commissioned by the NEA and the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation and premiered by Harmonium and Masterworks Choruses and the Colonial Symphony." ] ], [ "Symphony No. 3 (Rouse)", [ "Symphony No. 3 is an orchestral composition in two movements by the American composer Christopher Rouse.", " The work was jointly commissioned by the St. Louis Symphony, the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra, and the Singapore Symphony Orchestra.", " It was completed February 3, 2011 and premiered May 5, 2011 by the Saint Louis Symphony under David Robertson at Powell Hall in St. Louis, Missouri.", " The piece is dedicated to Rouse's high school music teacher, John Merrill." ] ], [ "Salzburg Festival", [ "The Salzburg Festival (German: \"Salzburger Festspiele\" ) is a prominent festival of music and drama established in 1920.", " It is held each summer (for five weeks starting in late July) within the Austrian town of Salzburg, the birthplace of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.", " One highlight is the annual performance of the play \"Jedermann\" (\"Everyman\") by Hugo von Hofmannsthal." ] ], [ "Symphony No. 5 (Glass)", [ "The Symphony No. 5 \"Requiem, Bardo, Nirmanakaya\" is a symphony for chorus and orchestra by the American composer Philip Glass.", " It was commissioned by the Salzburg Festival, Austria and premiered August 28, 1999 and was conducted by Dennis Russell Davies." ] ], [ "Sinfonia da Requiem", [ "Sinfonia da Requiem, Op. 20, for orchestra is a symphony written by Benjamin Britten in 1940 at the age of 26.", " It was one of several works commissioned from different composers by the Japanese government to mark the 2,600th anniversary of the founding of the Japanese Empire (taken to be 11 February 660 BCE).", " The Japanese government rejected the Sinfonia for its use of Latin titles from the Catholic Requiem for its three movements and for its somber overall character, but it was received positively at