inform CESR of any request referred to in the first subparagraph . In case of an investigation or inspection with cross-border effect , CESR may assume coordination of the investigation or inspection. In the event of an investigation or inspection with cross-border effect s , the CESR shall assume coordination of the investigation or inspection. Amendment 131 Proposal for a regulation Article 24 – paragraph 2 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Where a competent authority receives a request from a competent authority of another Member State to carry out an on-site inspection or an investigation, it shall do any of the following: 2. Where a competent authority receives a request from the CESR or a competent authority of another Member State to carry out an on-site inspection or an investigation, it shall do any of the following: Amendment 132 Proposal for a regulation Article 25 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 25 deleted Cooperation of competent authorities in case of a group of credit rating agencies 1. In case of a group of credit rating agencies referred to in Article 14(3) the competent authorities of the home Member States concerned shall consult each other before taking measures in accordance with this Regulation. 2. The facilitator referred to in Article 14(3) shall plan and coordinate the actions of the competent authorities of the home Member States concerned. 3. The facilitator and the competent authorities of the Member States concerned shall establish coordination arrangements regarding the following matters: a) the information to be exchanged between competent authorities; b) cases in which competent authorities have to consult each other; c) cases in which competent authorities delegate supervisory tasks in accordance with Article 24. Amendment 133 Proposal for a regulation Article 26 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 26 deleted Delegation of tasks between competent authorities The competent authority of the home Member State may delegate any of its tasks to the competent authority of another Member State subject to the agreement of that authority. Delegation of tasks is not intended to affect the responsibility of the designated competent authority. Amendment 134 Proposal for a regulation Article 27 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 27 deleted Mediation 1. CESR shall establish a mediation mechanism to assist in finding a common view among competent authorities concerned. 2. In case of disagreement between competent authorities of Member States on an assessment or action under this Regulation, competent authorities shall refer the matter to CESR for mediation. The competent authorities shall take into account the opinion of CESR. Amendment 135 Proposal for a regulation Article 28 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The obligation of professional secrecy shall apply to all persons who work or who have worked for the competent authority or for any authority or person to whom the competent authority has delegated tasks, including auditors and experts contracted by the competent authority. Information covered by professional secrecy may not be disclosed to any other person or authority except when such disclosure is necessary for