IIa. . The content of questions shall be the sole responsibility of their authors. 2. Questions shall be submitted in writing to the President who shall forward them to the institution concerned. Doubts concerning the admissibility of a question shall be settled by the President. His decision shall be notified to the questioner. 3. If a question cannot be answered within the time limit set it shall, at the request of the author, be placed on the agenda of the next meeting of the committee responsible. Rule 109 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4. Questions which require an immediate answer but not detailed research (priority questions) shall be answered within three weeks of being forwarded to the institution concerned. Each Member may table one priority question each month. Other questions (non-priority questions) shall be answered within six weeks of being forwarded to the institution concerned. Members shall indicate which type of question they are submitting. The final decision shall be taken by the President. 5. Questions and answers shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rule 111 Questions for written answer to the European Central Bank 1. Any Member may put questions for written answer to the European Central Bank in accordance with guidelines laid down in an annex to these Rules of Procedure See Annex IIa. . 2. Such questions shall be submitted in writing to the chair of the committee responsible, who shall forward them to the European Central Bank. 3. The questions shall be published with their answers in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. If a question has not received a reply by the required deadline, it shall be included at the request of its author on the agenda for the next meeting of the committee responsible with the President of the European Central Bank. CHAPTER 4 REPORTS OF OTHER INSTITUTIONS Rule 112 Annual reports and other reports of other institutions 1. Annual reports and other reports of other institutions, in respect of which the Treaties provide for consultation of the European Parliament or where other legal provisions require an opinion by the European Parliament, shall be dealt with by means of a report submitted to the plenary. 2. Annual reports and other reports of other institutions not falling within the scope of paragraph 1 shall be referred to the appropriate committee which may propose drawing up a report pursuant to Rule 45. CHAPTER 5 RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS Rule 113 Motions for resolutions 1. Any Member may table a motion for a resolution on a matter falling within the sphere of activities of the European Union. The motion may not comprise more than 200 words. 2. The committee responsible shall decide what procedure is to be adopted. It may combine the motion for a resolution with other motions for resolutions or reports. It may adopt an opinion, which may take the form of a letter. It may decide to draw up a report pursuant to Rule 45. 3. The authors of a motion for a resolution shall be informed of the decisions of