Member States must not allow exports which would provoke or prolong armed conflicts or aggravate existing tensions in the country of final destination; urges the Member States, in the current circumstances, to review their defence industry relations with the parties involved in open conflicts in various parts of the world, in particular in the Middle East; 4. Welcomes the agreement on guidelines for controlling brokering and believes that all Member States should ensure that these guidelines are incorporated into their national legislation and that these guidelines are supported by effective penalties; 5. Hopes that the Council will come forward with a timetable for the implementation of these guidelines; 6. Also believes that the Council should consider the practicability of taking action against EU nationals engaged in arms brokering outside EU territory, and what measures can be taken towards regulating services on which arms brokers depend e.g. shipping and financial services; 7. In this perspective, welcomes the recently adopted Belgian law on brokering; points out that this law establishes a register of licensed arms brokers; puts firm conditions for individuals to be included in the register; and provides firm sanctions against those who violate these conditions, or broker arms transactions without license; encourages all Member States to proceed urgently with this type of legislation; 8. Recognises that the third Annual report is an improvement on the first two reports in terms of transparency of the information provided; is nonetheless concerned that the different national systems of data collection and reporting are an obstacle to proper scrutiny; calls upon the Danish Presidency to achieve improvements in data reporting; 9. Welcomes the compilation of a matrix containing statistical data from national reports of every Member State; believes this should lead to greater convergence of information provided; 10. Believes that all Member States should publish national annual reports based on agreed standards and best practice; 11. Believes that such reports should inter alia provide details on individual licenses granted or denied including a description of the goods and details regarding the value, quantity and end-user of the equipment, as well as details of the supplier country and the recipient state; 12. Believes that Member States should agree on a common approach for dealing with informal denials of licenses; 13. Welcomes the commitment to use a broad interpretation of the concept of "essentially identical transaction"; believes that this interpretation should be based on the consequences of those transactions; 14. Welcomes the agreement for a more multilateral consultation between Member States where a conclusion has been reached that two transactions are not essentially identical; further believes that ultimately all Member States should be involved in the consultation process; 15. Urges the incorporation in the Code of Conduct of a provision whereby a Member State which – in accordance with the procedure laid down in Operative Provision 3 – has refused authorisation but has subsequently changed its mind within a period of one year is obliged to notify the other Member States of that decision during a common consultation procedure; 16. Welcomes the work being done in COARM on