and the achievement of the Kyoto goals, to the improvement of efficiency and the rational use of natural resources and energy. Programs, targeting citizenship, aiming at more and better information on the costs of those resources should be created, targeting and underlining the fact that natural resources are scarce, while some of them are non reproducible and very pollutable. Justification With the formal ratification of the Kyoto protocol, the focus should now be on the implementation, enforcement and raising the awareness in the European population. Amendment 28 Recommendation 3.8, vii. a. (new) (environmental sustainablility) (3.8) (vii) (a) With public procurement amounting to 14% of total EU GDP, procurement policies and legislation can make a strong contribution to the sustainable development policies of the EU and its member states. In order to achieve more sound ecological, social and equitable production and trading practices, member states should encourage local, regional and national level administrations to take into account social, ecological criteria. Justification The Barcelona conclusions call for economic, social and environmental considerations to have a say in all aspects of economic policy design. One way to achieve this by publuc administrations and to give an example to be followed is to introduce environmental and social criterias in public procurements. 6. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission and to the governments and parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Europe has experienced a downturn in its rate of growth during 2001, clearly as a result of the economic recession in the United States and, more generally, the growing interdependence among economies caused by the increasing pace of globalisation. The lack of growth in world trade during 2001 is a clear indication of this interdependency, which is greater than the volume of trade between Europe and the United States might suggest. It meant that the recession of 2001 and 2002 was entirely predictable. The forecasts for the timescale of a recovery in the American economy have been revised many times and at present hopes are pinned on the second half of 2002. Similar uncertainty has surrounded the periodically revised forecasts regarding the downturn in growth in the European Union, although in Europe there has not yet been the same mobilisation of resources as in the United States to promote a recovery in investments and to boost consumption, including the use of direct state aid. Accordingly, forecasts of a resumption of growth in Europe during the second half of 2002 should still be treated with caution. It does not seem possible for the American economy to act once again as a motor for growth for the rest of the industrialised world. At the same time, the signs of recovery are spread unevenly between the different sectors of the economy in the United States as in Europe. In certain sectors there still seem to be marketing difficulties and problems of a structural nature, e.g. steel, cars, telecommunications and, since 11 September, aviation and insurance. In addition, there are many signs (restructuring, mergers, specialisations) to suggest that, in the United States as in