to others, thereby possibly undermining the application of harmonised standards. It is possible that, if those powers had been somehow constrained, the ELAS collapse would have been avoided or at least minimized. Article 28 – General good; Article 31 – Information to policyholders 30. C.O.B/prudential separation was prejudicial On issues regarding communication with the policyholder, Mr. LAKE says (H1) that the policyholder information required by the 3LD came under the control of the conduct of business regulator which was separate from the prudential regulator, and that this legal division of responsibilities between prudential was prejudicial to ELAS policyholders. Finally, on implementation cases brought to UK court proceedings he says that he knows of none which relate to non-implementation of the EU Law. However, David STRACHAN from the FSA presented a different view in H4, claiming that " the Third Life Directive has been implemented in a way that has ensured clarity as to the respective responsibilities of the home and host regulators [...]. Consistent with the Third Life Directive, it falls to the regulator of those branches – the host regulator in this case – to apply its own rules. This avoids an otherwise confusing situation in which policyholders would be subject to different conduct of business protections depending on whether they were doing business with a domestic institution or a branch of an EEA institution." 31. Annex II not respected Leslie SEYMOUR in H7 provides written evidence (WE 53) claiming that Annex II of the 3LD – renumbered Annex IV in the CD –, which requires that the policyholder be given information regarding his policy ‘clearly’ and ‘accurately’, was not respected. WE 53 shows ELAS sales documents explaining the superior performance of ELAS pension funds and claiming that ELAS was able to provide superior performance due to its lower running costs. It also claimed to have superior investment management. Another document explains how ELAS proceeded with 'smoothing', by holding reserves, and that each year the policyholder would receive a bonus, with a certain amount of money that the company had made being retained to cover any future downturns in the stock markets or in the investments they had. Mr SEYMOUR claims that all these promises were false and therefore the information was not clear and accurate. Mr SEYMOUR says that "the Directive requires that policyholders receive regular, clear and accurate information about the insurance undertaking. The regulator did nothing to ensure that this vital part of the Directive was put into effect." Conclusions PART II, TRANSPOSITION PART II - TRANSPOSITION Transposition of the Third Life Directive (3LD) 1. Despite having identified some discrepancies between specific domestic UK regulations and articles of the 3LD See Part II, sections II.2.1, Part II, section II.2.2; Part II, section II.2.3; and WE 20. , the committee considers that the nature and number of such discrepancies is not important enough to characterize what may be termed as the formal transposition process as defective. 2. The committee makes one exception, nevertheless, as regards the ample powers domestic UK legislation bestows on the Secretary of State (as prescribed