that regular physical activity improves mental and physical wellbeing, while having beneficial effects on learning abilities; 4. Calls on the Member States and the competent authorities to ensure that greater stress is placed on health development in school and preschool teaching programmes by encouraging specific forms of physical activity suitable for the preschool age group and raising awareness within clubs and associations in order to ensure, for example, that children can start physical activity at the earliest possible age, for the benefit of their development and health, and hence to guarantee physical education status in accordance with the profile of the institution and the corresponding level of study; 5. Points out that sport and physical activity can make an important contribution to combating negative health trends such as a sedentary life-style and obesity; refers to Eurobarometer 246 on Health, Food and Nutrition published in November 2006 which addresses the health and physical characteristics of Europeans, their diets and problems relating to obesity and lack of exercise; 6. Urges the Member States to carry out information campaigns, aimed at children from a very early age and their parents, on the need to adopt a healthy lifestyle, to engage in regular physical activity and on the health risks linked to an unhealthy diet ; 7. Welcomes the informal working parties set up by the Commission and the Council in the area of sport, and proposes that these working parties pay more attention to reinforcing the link between health and physical education at school; 8. Proposes that the work of the group of experts involved in the 'EU Platform on Diet, Physical Activity and Health' set up by the Commission in March 2005 be reinforced through the participation of physical education teachers and experts in the field of sport ; 9. Calls on the Member States to consider, and where necessary implement, changes in the orientation of physical education as a subject, taking into account children's health and social needs and expectations; 10. Calls on the Member States to make physical education compulsory in primary and secondary schools, and to accept the principle that the timetable should guarantee at least three physical education lessons per week, while schools should be encouraged to exceed this prescribed minimum as far as possible; 11. Calls on the Member States and the responsible authorities to promote body awareness and health through a higher degree of integration between sport and academic subjects; 12. Awaits the conclusions of the Commission Working Party on Sport and Health on what the minimum level of recommended daily bodily exercise should be and as regards the promotion of physical activity at school; 13. Welcomes the Commission White Paper on sport, which represents an important step towards the future development of Community action in the field of sport, and hopes that the issue of school physical education will form part of the 'Pierre de Coubertin' Action Plan ( SEC(2007)0934 ); 14. Welcomes the abovementioned Commission's White Paper on health issues,which identifies prevention, primarily by means of the promotion of exercise and an increase in the number