Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (22 April 2005) Regarding the Italian case of adulterated butter, the position of OLAF and the Commission services has been explained in detail in replies to questions asked earlier by the Honourable Member. A comprehensive summary was given in the joint letter of 14 December 2004 by Ms Fischer Boel and Mr Kallas. This letter and the reply to the Honourable Member's written question E-154/05 explain the main features of the findings in the Italian case (no harm to the EC’s financial interests in Italy, possible health problem, judicial procedures in Italy and other European countries). As regards the investigations following reports that ethyl alcohol was being marketed in mainland Portugal in 0.25 l bottles supplied by SINAGA S.A., the Commission called on the national authorities to provide information so as to check whether the conditions under which the product was being marketed in mainland Portugal infringed the special arrangements for the Azores provided for by Regulation (EC) No 1453/2001. The purpose of this administrative measure, a habitual feature of the investigation of complaints concerning violations of Community law (Article 226 of the EC Treaty), was to elicit the Portuguese authorities’ position with regard to the actions on which the complaint was based, and its sole justification was the concern to clarify the facts. The Commission is of the opinion that the two cases the Honourable Member refers to are very different in nature. The adulterated butter case relates to the production of adulterated butter in Italy and its sale to operators in other Member States. It is a case of alleged fraud to the detriment of EU financial interests and with possible implications for consumers. The Commission actively cooperated with/assisted the national authorities, as this is primarily their responsibility. Its judicial follow-up has to comply with judicial rules applicable in the various Member States. In taking this action, the Commission considers that the provisions of Article 280 of the EC Treaty, especially on shared responsibility, were applied and that the Community’s financial interest was protected. In the SINAGA case, the Commission, as guardian of the Treaty, conducted an investigation to establish the existence of possible measures or practices contrary to Community law, as provided for in the procedural rules regarding complaint management and infringement proceedings. COM(2002) 141 final, Commission communication to the European Parliament and the European Ombudsman on relations with the complainant in respect of infringements of community law, OJ C 244, 10 October 2002.