origin allows you to connect a certain food with the land where it is produced. In this way you give the consumer the possibility to choose: I'm not saying that European food is better than others. I think it should be up to the consumer to decide. I go further. I would like the Commission to survey consumers, to ask what they would really like to see on the label. We should stop arguing amongst ourselves and consult the people. Another proposal approved by MEPs despite strong resistance is the European food quality logo. Every time you try to apply changes to something that works, you face a lot of resistance. This doesn't mean you cannot change. We proposed a European logo for products that are grown and entirely transformed in Europe. The problem is supermarkets. They import food from all over the world, and then label it according to the last stage of transformation. This is not transparent for the consumer and makes traceability very difficult. In the report there is also a strong call for a "short distribution chain". What about the fight against "agro-piracy" where products are fake or sold under false names. What can the EU do? Even here in Brussels I have eaten fake Parmigiano I recognised immediately it was not the real thing! You should know that the "supermarket of fakes" is a business of over €52 billion a year. This is dirty money, which steals others' creativity and work. We should be very tough with sanctions and punishments, both outside and inside the EU. We ask the Commission to fight at the WTO in order to obtain the same protection for the most counterfeited foods that we have for wines. Report adopted Press release The debate European Observatory against counterfeiting Maria Badia i Cutchet on the Internet of Things Spanish Socialist MEP Maria Badia i Cutchet "Internet of things" could change our lives For examples fridges could detect out of date food Will your fridge be able to detect any product past its use-by date and inform you about it in the near future? The Internet should not only connect the more than 1.5 billion people who use it, but also people to things and things-to-things, according to the EP rapporteur on the subject, Spanish Socialist Maria Badia i Cutchet. She welcomes a recent Commission communication on developing its use and promoting its expansion but asks for privacy issues to be taken into consideration. What exactly is the Internet of Things? It is a new application of Internet technology. In the next 10-15 years, it is predicted that the Internet of Things will enter our daily lives. It uses RFID (radio frequency identification) technology to receive and transmit information wirelessly. It works with a tiny chip, which has the capacity to store a lot of information about the object or the person on which it has been placed. In the agri-food sector for example, RFID allows better and faster product traceability, and provides information about content: chemical characteristics, gluten levels,... everything. Similar applications are already