Question for written answer E-008098/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) (13 September 2011) Subject: Creation of a marine reservation at Cap de Creus (Spain) The Catalan regional government's Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, Josep Maria Pelegrí, has stated, with reference to the plan to create a marine reservation in the locality of Cap de Creus, that ‘to the extent that protection is a limiting factor, we have to see which interests are the most prejudiced and whether there is really a need for this reservation’, arguing that ‘protection for protection's sake is a mistake’. One of the general objectives (referred to in Article 2) of the reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP) is the application of the precautionary principle, and this entails recognising the need to protect specific marine areas with a view to ensuring sustainable fishing. Article 12 of the CFP regulation lays down the need to fulfil obligations under the EU's environmental legislation, with the Commission being responsible for urging Member States to adopt the legislation needed to alleviate the impact of fishing in conservation areas. Also relevant here is Article 13 of the same regulation, which empowers the Commission to take the initiative in protecting endangered marine biological resources. There is a consensus in the international scientific community that marine reservations represent a valid option which can benefit all of society, fishermen included. Meanwhile, Catalonia has only 2.5 km 2 of marine waters that are totally protected, out of a coastline 580 km long. Does the Commission endorse Mr Pelegrí's comments? Will it remind him of the Community legislation on which any comments he makes should be based? Does the Commission intend to oversee the creation of a marine reservation at Cap de Creus, of the necessary size as specified by the scientific community? Would the Commission consider resorting to Article 13 of the CFP, as cited above, in order to create, on its own initiative, a protected marine area at Cap de Creus?