Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (21 October 2010) The Commission is not responsible for export promotion. Nonetheless, on a general level, the Commission provides support for small- and medium‑sized enterprises (SMEs) to export to and invest in third markets. For this purpose, Parliament has provided funding for pilot projects for EU business support centres in India, China and Thailand in the framework of the Small Business Act of 2008. The European Business and Technology Centre in New Delhi was launched in 2008, while the planned Centres in Beijing and Bangkok are in the process of being established. Furthermore, the Enterprise Europe Network, which has, as its main objective, to support cross-border activities of European SMEs, now has partners in more than twenty countries such as the United States of America, Russia, China and South Korea. This network provides support to European SMEs looking for business partners and opportunities for development in these countries. With a view to ensuring consistency and clarity in its programme for SME business support abroad, the Commission, in early 2010, consulted interested parties on an Issue Paper which emphasised governance guidelines for EU‑funded business support. In particular, the Commission pointed to the need to ensure complementarity and an EU added value to business services provided by others, including Member States and private bodies, as well as sustainability and efficiency in the use of public funds. Parliament has provided funds for a study that is currently being conducted by the Commission on the opportunities for SMEs in certain key markets outside the EU. The study is looking at possibilities for offering support to SMEs' internationalisation activities, which may include the establishment of EU‑level services for SMEs abroad. On the basis of the results of the public consultation on the Issue Paper and the findings of the ongoing study, the Commission intends to present more detailed proposals for SME support abroad following the review of the Small Business Act to take place in December 2010.