The Baird report's (WE 17) investigation into the issue of future profits also deserves close scrutiny. Quoting exchanges with the GAD, it says that " EU directives and UK legislation permit a value to be placed on the future profits of an insurance company. This is referred to as a “future profits implicit item”. (...) GAD explained to us the background to such items: “The background legislation…stems from the European Directives, particularly the First Life Directive going back to 1979. This says that at the discretion of the supervisory authority, the company may be allowed to count such items against 5/6ths of its margin of solvency, to its future profits calculation. The future profits calculation is then specified in the same Directive as being, in effect, 50% of the average profits earned over the last five years multiplied by the expected duration of the policy in force. The Directive just said that the supervisor could exercise their discretion, and it may be allowed as a solvency margin." This optionality was severely restricted with the adoption in 2002 of the Solvency I Directive (Article 1(4)), which totally prohibits this practice from 2009 onwards. Baird explains how ELAS requested and successfully obtained authorisation from the regulator on numerous occasions to use future profits to meet its solvency requirements. The regulator used his prerogatives under section 68 of the ICA 1982 to grant the repeated authorizations. This, according to Baird, allowed the company to enhance the external perception of its financial strength. Baird recommended reviewing the exercise of discretion by the regulator in relation to authorisations for using future profits to meet solvency requirements. This is closely linked to one of the lines of investigation being pursued in terms of correct transposition of the 3LD. The issue is whether the discretion exercised by the Secretary of State based on section 68 of the ICA 1982 played a prominent role in the ELAS affair, as is claimed by Baird. What needs to be evaluated in this context is whether the discretion itself is compatible with the 3LD. The Directive prescribes that Member States must ensure that competent authorities have sufficient powers and means to carry out their supervisory functions (see Article 10 3LD). The Directive, by contrast, allows the competent authority to waive the application of rules only on a limited number of occasions and subject to stringent conditions (see Articles 21(2) 3LD and 22(6) 3LD) but it seems that nowhere in the Directive is the competent authority of a Member State entrusted with waiver powers as those prescribed by section 68 of the ICA 1982. It seems that such powers entail the risk of being exercised in a lenient way, or in an inconsistent way that might have been beneficial to some companies but not to others, thereby possibly undermining the application of harmonised standards. It is possible that, if those powers had been somehow constrained, the ELAS collapse would have been avoided or at least minimized. Article 28 – General good; Article 31 – Information to policyholders 30. C.O.B/prudential separation was prejudicial On issues