2 October 2001 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Graham R. Watson, Jules Maaten, Dirk Sterckx and Paolo Costa, on behalf of the ELDR Group on the Brussels extraordinary European Council meeting on 21 September 2001 and on the preparations for the Ghent European Council European Parliament resolution on the Brussels extraordinary European Council meeting on 21 September 2001 and on the preparations for the Ghent European Council The European Parliament, I. On the extraordinary European Council following the terrorist attacks in the United States and to impart the necessary impetus to the actions of the European Union. – having regard to the conclusions of the European Council special meeting on 21 September 2001 in Brussels, – having regard to Security Council Resolution 1368 (2001) of 12 September and Resolution 1373 (2001) of 28 September 2001, – having regard to the conclusions of the informal meeting of the Transport and Environment Council on 15 September, – having regard to the conclusions of the ECOFIN meeting on 22 September, – having regard to the Conference of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, to be held in Montreal between 25 September and 5 October, – having regard to its recommendation of 5 September 2001 on the role of the European Union in combating terrorism (2001/2016 (INI)), – having regard to the JAI Council meeting of 20 September 2001, A. whereas the recent terrorist attacks in the United States have created a new impetus for the united fight against terrorism worldwide, B. whereas the recent terrorist attacks have raised fundamental questions regarding security in airports and on board passenger aircraft, 1. SOLIDARITY AND COOPERATION WITH THE UNITED STATES 1. Notes the significance of the special summit held by Heads of State and Government devoted to the support of the American people in the face of the deadly terrorist attacks which are an assault on our open, democratic, tolerant and multicultural societies; supports the European Council in developing a common European security and defence policy in collaboration where appropriate with NATO; 2. Welcomes the fact that the European Union will cooperate with the United States in bringing to justice and punishing the perpetrators and sponsors of, and accomplices in, such barbaric acts, and that the Member States of the Union are prepared to undertake such actions, each according to its means; 3. Calls on the Member States to ensure that these actions are clearly targeted, even if they are directed against states abetting, supporting or harbouring terrorists; affirms that, on the basis of Article 51 of the UN Charter, a measured military response by the US is legitimate as long as its political objectives are reasoned and published; 4. Fully endorses calls for the broadest possible global coalition against terrorism, following the resolutions adopted by the Security Council of the United Nations; 5. Welcomes the fact that the European Union will step up its action against terrorism through a coordinated and interdisciplinary approach embracing all Union policies; considers that this must ensure