a deflator rate of 2% a year. The Commission has annexed to the PDB a presentation of the new MFF at current prices. In line with the ceilings fixed by the MFF, the profile of EU expenditure is set to increase in a consistent manner across the MFF for commitments. However, the profile is far more irregular concerning payments, especially for cohesion policy , with a peak in 2008. The rapporteur stresses that a lower level of payments in a given budget year may lead to delays in implementation. 17. Focusing on the figures per heading in PDB 2007 (tables 1a and 1b), and relative to the policy priorities highlighted in his Working Document 2 (para 9), the rapporteur notes that there are some headings under which foreseen appropriations seem low and perhaps insufficient. The rapporteur notes the 14,8 % increase in appropriations on cohesion for growth and employment (heading 1B) and welcomes the 11,5% increase in appropriations for competitiveness for growth and employment (heading 1a), as the Lisbon Agenda was a priority underlined in Working Document 2. However, the rapporteur is concerned by the 20,2% decrease in appropriations under Heading 4 (the EU as a global partner). He further notes that there appears to be little re-direction of funds towards tackling the challenges outlined in his Working Document 4. The security dimension and the need for a more efficient communications policy were also priorities in Working Document 2: these areas of spending do not see major changes in overall spending in the PDB 2007 relative to B 2006. In the rapporteur's view, the margins left under the different headings already appear to be insufficient, especially for heading 3B and 4, to face the ambition of the Union in those areas. 18. The Commission has presented the PDB based on an EU with 27 countries in line with the next MFF, no formal decision on enlargement to Bulgaria and Romania has yet been taken. The rapporteur is of the opinion that the budget should not anticipate political decisions but rather endorse them. Therefore, the Commission should indicate separately the expenditure foreseen for EU-2 in order to preserve the rights of the budgetary authority in the context of an Amending Letter to be presented by the Commission if enlargement becomes effective before Parliament's second reading. Heading 1a - Competitiveness for growth and employment Overview 19. This sub-heading encompasses the key policies in achieving the Lisbon Strategy, with a focus on economic growth and more and better jobs for European citizens: a priority for this MFF. One would therefore expect to see an increase in spending in this area in the PDB. The proposed commitment appropriations for this heading (EUR 8 796 million) do indeed increase by 11,5% when compared to B2006. However, the payment appropriations (EUR 6 944 million) decrease by 6.5% compared to 2006. 20. The main drivers for the gap between increasing commitments and decreasing payments would appear to be in the areas of Research and Trans-European Networks (TENs). In both of these areas there is a large gap between commitments