Commission may present preliminary draft amending budgets if they are "unavoidable, exceptional or unforeseen circumstances". Concerning the different points of Draft amending budgets No 7/2009, your rapporteur has the following comments: 1. Mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund The European Commission proposed on 22 June 2009 a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund, which is based on the provisions of point 26 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006. The conditions of the eligibility to the Fund are detailed in Point 26 of the IIA as well as in Council Regulation n° 2012/2002 establishing the EUSF. It is important to note that the objective of the Fund is not the compensation for private damage but to repair infrastructure and it is a tool of refinancing. The mobilisation decision is subject of a parallel report by the Chairman which approves the decision. It is to note that during the 2009 Budget year the fund was mobilised one time in favour of Romania (EUR 11,8 million). Now the Commission proposes to mobilise the Solidarity Fund for a total amount of EUR 109,4 million in favour of France, as the country was hit by the very strong storm "Klaus" in January 2009. The total amount of the Solidarity Fund per year is set at 1 billion EUR in the IIA of May 2006. The amount of compensation for France will leave at least 25% of the EUSF for allocation during the last quarter of the year, as foreseen by Art. 4(2) of the Regulation establishing the EUSF. It has to be reminded that on 17 July 2008, during the Conciliation, Parliament and Council stated in a common declaration that they "welcome the Commission commitment according to which, as from now, every Preliminary Draft Amending Budget required by the mobilisation of the Solidarity fund will be solely for that purpose." This is the fourth amending budget - since the declaration - that takes into consideration solely the mobilisation of the EUSF. Your rapporteur welcomes the Commission proposal as it is in line with its commitment taken on 17 July 2008. 2. Financing The Commission proposes to allocate an amount of 109,4 million from Chapter 1 4 of the Revenue of the General Budget concerning the Own Resources Based on GNI pursuant to article 2(1)(c) of Decision 2007/436/EC, EURATOM to finance Chapter 13 06 of the 2009 Budget concerning the Solidarity Fund. The credits for the EUSF mobilisation are so called "fresh money". The Commission Proposal does not foresee any decrease in any other budget line under Heading 1b (Sustainable growth - Cohesion for growth and employment) in favour of Heading 3b (Citizenship) of the MFF, as it is generally the case for the intervention of the Solidarity Fund. Your Rapporteur takes not of the remarks of the letter by the Chairwoman of the committee on Regional Development to the Chairman of the committee on Budgets by which REGI expresses its favourable position to the mobilisation of the EUSF. Your rapporteur proposes to accept the proposed