Question for written answer E-008099/2011 to the Council Rule 117 Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) (13 September 2011) Subject: Economic policy and the eurozone The so-called ‘euro pact’ has been decidedly rejected by civil society and has had practically no effect as far as calming the markets is concerned. The EP and the Commission are now working on an economic reform package that will constitute a Community legal framework for Member States' policies concerning deficit and financial imbalances. Since the crisis began, the Council's actions have focused on calming the markets and transmitting the message that there will be no repetition of the public deficit problem, while there has been no attempt to implement policies for the real economy which might create wealth and jobs. Parliament has repeatedly called for the introduction of eurobonds, but the Council continues to reject such an instrument. Economic policy, while visibly following a neo-liberal line, appears to be taking no account whatever of the need for medium- and long-term planning. France, Italy and now Spain are in process of amending their constitutions to introduce a deficit limitation requirement, using accelerated procedures which do not respect the need for a participatory democratic process. The introduction of a deficit ceiling in the Spanish constitution is no more than a stop-gap measure, whose real effectiveness has not been scientifically demonstrated. The deficit ceiling will primarily affect the local authorities and the regions, and the public services they offer. In view of the above, — Does the Council not believe that the bilateral meetings of the French and German presidents exceed their powers and, by imposing conditions on other EU Member States, are, finally, intrinsically anti-democratic? — Does the Council not believe it would be more appropriate for the euro crisis to be handled by itself and Ecofin? — Does it believe that the implementation of the deficit ceiling represents a constraint on compliance with the Lisbon strategy? — What reaction does the Council anticipate if one of the Member States operating a deficit ceiling threshold fails to implement it, or if these instruments prove to be superfluous? — Does the Council not believe that the current proposals are radically inadequate for dealing with the crisis?