the possibility of horizontal cumulation between regions or global cumulation for the countries benefiting from special arrangements under the GSP. Along the same lines, consideration should be given to introducing more favourable rules on the requirements for granting recognition of origin to a product. It is proposed that the European Union voice its desire to give priority to the GSP in the context of the work being undertaken within the WTO on the harmonisation of rules of origin. Country coverage Country coverage has been subject to criticism both from the beneficiary countries and NGOs, as well as researchers. Often, we have situations where poor countries with diversified economies are immediately excluded from the most advantageous schemes. The import threshold could be substituted by other criteria, more straightforward and, especially, more directly related to the level of development (the Gini coefficient is a good example of such a criterion). Countries that could benefit the most of tariff preferences are often those that do not pass the vulnerability test necessary to be eligible for GSP+. In addition and in order to prevent the erosion of preferences, the options for transferring products currently classified as "sensitive" to the "non-sensitive" category need to be evaluated for the next regulation. Technical assistance Your Rapporteur believes that it is necessary to increase the impact of the present system and improve the rate of utilisation of the GSP through the provision of technical assistance specifically designed to build the institutional and regulatory capacity required to allow the countries most in need to take maximum advantage of the benefits of international trade and the GSP. Assistance must also be provided, for instance in the form of twinning programmes, to help GSP+ beneficiaries with the effective implementation of the international conventions required by this incentive arrangement and their commitments. The Commission should actively seek to check that such commitments are upheld. It should automatically open an inquiry in any case where the ILO Committee on the Application of Standards devotes a "Special paragraph" to a beneficiary country which does not comply with fundamental labour standards. Inquiries should always include co-operation with the European Parliament and representatives of civil society, including the social partners, of the respective country. 10.11.2010 OPINION of the Committee on Development for the Committee on International Trade on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 ( COM(2010)0142 – C7‑0135/2010 – 2010/0140(COD) ) Rapporteur: Eva Joly SHORT JUSTIFICATION GSP The EU Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) is a trade mechanism allowing the EU to offer preferential non-reciprocal market access to developing countries through reduced tariffs. In addition to 'standard' GSP access, open to all developing countries, a number qualify for GSP+. This means additional tariff cuts for developing countries that meet certain conditions. GSP eligibility criteria vulnerability/dependence — where the country's five largest GSP-covered EU exports account for more than three quarters of its total GSP exports — and