d) develop awareness and information measures so as to offer women and those around them images of women engaged in non-traditional activities, particularly those related to ICT activities e) encourage greater participation by girls in the various initial vocational training systems outside the school education system, especially ITC apprenticeships and adapt or, where appropriate, abolish types of training for women which do not provide real occupational skills or lead girls into traditional female or overcrowded occupations; 11. Stresses the important role of the social partners for promoting gender equality and equal treatment in employment ; 12. Calls on the Commission and the Council to submit practical strategy proposals and contribute to the incorporation of horizontal policies for gender equality in the United Nations World Summit on the Information Society scheduled to be held in Geneva in December 2003; 13. Calls on the Commission and the Council, within the framework of the European and the Member States development policies to pay due attention to the fact that women's and girl's education is recognised as most sustainable development of development countries, in particular to the advantages of ICT for women and more specifically in the new forms of information transfer in the area of health, (sexual) education, food production and environmental knowledge; 14. Calls on the Commission to promote programmes and projects in developing countries of networks of women in ICT whereby the aim should be to strengthen women's economic capacity which, linked to new technology, would lead to a more active participation by women in the shaping of the new economy and society, helping to lift themselves and their families from poverty; 15. Requests the Commission to study, together with the industry, in which way ICT technology and products could be made available, as cheaply as possible, on a wide scale in developing countries, taking full account of the potential local production capacities, with the effect at to prevent division between the few which are able to purchase expensive technology and the masses who cannot; 16. Calls on the Commission within the framework of the financial programs for the adhesion countries and after entry into the Community by 2004, within the Structural Funds, to give a higher priority to educational, professional programs whereby ICT is offered to unemployed women in order to increase their chances on the labour market; 17. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the governments of Member States and Accession Countries. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Introduction At the dawn of the 21 st century a number of events of historical importance is rapidly changing economic and social structures and the way in which the world of employment operates. The explosive development of technology and the globalisation of the economy are swiftly transforming the material basis of society and redefining relations between the economy, the state and society. Changes in social and life are as dramatic as those in the technological and economic spheres. Computers are creating new channels of communication and redefining human relations. However, despite the global range of communications networks, social activity is