the Financial Regulation and separating the internal audit function from the ex ante control function (Article 24(5) of the Financial Regulation) Texts Adopted, Item 5. , with the aim of avoiding legal grey areas and uncertainties, H. whereas the specific features to be found in the organisational and budgetary structure of the various institutions and advisory bodies of the Union mean that a degree of flexibility is justified in determining the new provisions governing control and audit procedures and this should be reflected in their respective internal rules, while ensuring that the core principles of sound financial management and control are applied throughout all the institutions, General remarks 1. Reiterates its view that a strong, independent, transparent and efficient Commission is one of the cornerstones of European integration; in this connection, considers that the reform process must be pursued unflaggingly and that Parliament, which initiated the process through its decision on the 1996 discharge, must play its full part in a positive and constructive manner; 2. Welcomes the fact that the proposals in the White Paper to a large extent follow the recommendations put forward in the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts, as Parliament had specifically requested in paragraph 7 of its abovementioned resolution of 19 January 2000; 3. Believes that it is the Commission's responsibility, acting within the legal framework laid down by Parliament and the Council, to decide on its internal structures and working methods and to ensure that they achieve optimum use of financial resources; points out that, under the Treaties, Parliament is required to exercise its powers of control over the Commission, on the basis of all the activities carried out by the latter and particularly as regards implementation of the Community budget; stresses that, far from restricting Parliament's powers of control, this separation of roles enables it to exercise them effectively; 4. Notes the emphasis placed by the Commission on the need to ensure that the human resources available to it are sufficient to enable it to perform the tasks assigned to it; recalls that it was Parliament itself which, in paragraphs 2, 15, 18 and 25 of its resolution of 4 May 1999 on the accounts of the European Communites in respect of the 1996 financial year OJ C 279, 1.10.1999, p. 114. , asked the Commission to review its human resources management in the light of policy priorities after noting that a number of the problems pinpointed in the 1996 discharge were due to a shortage of human resources which had prompted the Commission to commit the mistake of delegating public administration prerogatives to external technical assistance offices; 5. Calls on the Commission to forward to Parliament the projected staffing plan showing all staff movement (retirement, early retirement, internal movement, recruitment etc.) for the period during which the administrative reform is to be implemented; Standards of behaviour in public life 6. Notes the establishment of a set of codes of conduct for the Commission (code of conduct for Commissioners, code of conduct governing relations between Commissioners and departments and code of good