which shall function independently and determine whether a financial irregularity has occurred and what the consequences, if any, should be. On the basis of the opinion of this panel, the institution shall decide whether to initiate proceedings entailing liability to disciplinary action or to payment of compensation. If the panel detects systemic problems, it shall send a report with recommendations to the authorising officer and to the authorising officer by delegation, provided the latter is not the person involved, as well as to the internal auditor. Section 3 Rules applicable to accounting officers and imprest administrators Article 67 An accounting officer shall be liable to disciplinary action and payment of compensation, as laid down and in accordance with the procedures in the Staff Regulations. He/She may in particular render himself liable by any of the following forms of misconduct: a) he/she loses or damages monies, assets and documents in his/her keeping; b) he/she wrongly alters bank accounts or postal giro accounts; c) he/she recovers or pays amounts which are not in conformity with the corresponding recovery or payment orders; d) he/she fails to collect revenue due. Article 68 An imprest officer shall be liable to disciplinary action and payment of compensation, as laid down and in accordance with the procedures in the Staff Regulations. He/She may in particular render himself liable by any of the following forms of misconduct: a) he/she loses or damages monies, assets and documents in his/her keeping; b) he/she cannot provide proper supporting documents for the payments he/she has made; c) he/she makes payments to persons other than those entitled; d) he/she fails to collect revenue due. CHAPTER 5 Revenue operations Section 1 Making available of own resources Article 69 An estimate of revenue constituted by own resources, as referred to in the Council Decision on the system of the Communities' own resources, shall be entered in the budget in euro. It shall be made available in accordance with the Council Regulation implementing that Decision. Section 2 Estimate of amounts receivable Article 70 1. An estimate of the amount receivable shall first be made by the authorising officer responsible in respect of any measure or situation which may give rise to or modify an amount owing to the Communities. 2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, no estimate of the amount receivable shall be made before Member States make available to the Commission the amounts of own resources defined in the Council Decision on the system of the Communities' own resources which are paid at fixed intervals by the Member States. The authorising officer responsible shall issue a recovery order in respect of these amounts. Section 3 Establishment of amounts receivable Article 71 1. Establishment of an amount receivable is the act by which the authorising officer by delegation or subdelegation: a) verifies that the debt exists; b) determines or verifies the reality and the amount of the debt; c) verifies the conditions in which the debt is due. 2. The own resources made available to the Commission and any amount receivable that is identified as being