adopted the draft legislative resolution by 31 votes to 15, with 1 abstention. The following were present for the vote: Alexander de Roo, acting chairman; Mauro Nobilia and Guido Sacconi, vice-chairmen; Giorgio Lisi, rapporteur (for Caroline F. Jackson) and María del Pilar Ayuso González, María Luisa Bergaz Conesa , Hans Blokland, David Robert Bowe, John Bowis, Philip Bushill-Matthews (for Horst Schnellhardt), Martin Callanan, Marie-Arlette Carlotti (for Anne Ferreira), Dorette Corbey, Raffaele Costa, Chris Davies, Avril Doyle, Karl-Heinz Florenz, Cristina García-Orcoyen Tormo, Robert Goodwill, Françoise Grossetête, Marie Anne Isler Béguin, Hedwig Keppelhoff-Wiechert (for Cristina Gutiérrez Cortines), Christa Klaß, Eija-Riitta Anneli Korhola, Bernd Lange, Torben Lund, Jules Maaten, Minerva Melpomeni Malliori, Erik Meijer (for Pernille Frahm), Emilia Franziska Müller, Rosemarie Müller, Riitta Myller, Ria G.H.C. Oomen-Ruijten, Fernando Pérez Royo (for Elena Valenciano Martínez-Orozco), Frédérique Ries, Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, Karin Scheele, Inger Schörling, María Sornosa Martínez, Bart Staes (for Hiltrud Breyer), Charles Tannock (for Peter Liese), Nicole Thomas-Mauro, Astrid Thors, Marianne L.P. Thyssen (for Peder Wachtmeister), Kathleen Van Brempt, Phillip Whitehead and Stavros Xarchakos (for Jorge Moreira da Silva). On 21 January 2003 the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism decided not to deliver an opinion. On 20 February 2003, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy decided not to deliver an opinion. The report was tabled on 10 September 2003. DRAFT EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products and amending Directive 1999/13/EC ( COM(2002) 750 – C5‑0632/2002 – 2002/0301(COD)) (Codecision procedure: first reading) The European Parliament , – having regard to the Commission proposal to the European Parliament and the Council ( COM(2002) 750 OJ C not yet published. ), – having regard to Article 251(2) and Article 95 of the EC Treaty, pursuant to which the Commission submitted the proposal to Parliament ( C5‑0632/2002 ), – having regard to Rule 67 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy ( A5‑0292/2003 ), 1. Approves the Commission proposal as amended; 2. cCalls on the Commission to refer the matter to Parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 5 (5) Because of the characteristics of organic solvents, their use in certain products gives rise to emissions of organic compounds into the air, which contributes to the local and transboundary formation of photochemical oxidants in the boundary layer of the troposphere and, under certain exposure conditions, have harmful effects on human health. (5) Because of the characteristics of organic solvents, their use in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products gives rise to emissions of organic compounds into the air, which contributes to the local and transboundary formation of photochemical oxidants in the boundary