instrument which contributes to the realisation of the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives. The rapporteur considers that the proposed budgetary support for environmental policy in the coming period will give the European Union a leading role in the world in important areas such as mitigating the effect of climate change or preserving natural resources. A sustainable environmental policy is one of the main challenges for which there is a real European added value. Citizens and communication 30. The current response to the so-called "crisis of trust" has been rather predictable. The Commission has presented new policy papers for new communication strategies asking for new money to put them into practice. The Council has cut funds for those communication lines and Parliament has reinstated the allocations and tried - sometimes successfully - to even increase these funds. Quite regularly, however, one could see that execution of the communication lines in the annual budgets has left a lot to be desired. 31. Certainly, communication is a key factor in helping European citizens understand the EU better. Instead of trying out new concepts all the time and developing new costly strategies, which are then poorly implemented, the rapporteur thinks it essential to assess in-depth where real value for money lies. 32. Direct information for the citizens about their rights in the European Union, be it as a worker, student or pensioner, is not well developed. It would be helpful for citizens to be informed about the specific advantages the common market means to their every day lives, about transfer of pension rights, acknowledgement of professional diplomas or the consumption of social benefits acquired in another Member State. Instead of producing abstract glossy brochures, the Union should first try to fulfill these basic communication needs of its citizens. 33. The rapporteur is convinced that the potential for synergies between the communication activities of Commission and Parliament still has not been fully developed. The value of European Union Houses as a means of using scarce resources effectively needs to be more carefully considered. Agencies 34. In the 1996 Budget, the rapporteur raised the point concerning the need for Parliament to ensure political and budgetary control over the decentralised agencies. Ten years later, the number of agencies has increased from 5 to 25 and the types of agencies have been diversified (decentralised agencies, regulatory agencies, executive agencies). Although the Parliament's control powers have been formalised in the new Financial Regulation, the rapporteur is of the opinion that such a new form of EU governance should not develop so as to prejudice operational programmes. Therefore he fully supports the request made by the rapporteur on FP-IIA to have a binding mechanism for the Agencies under each heading of the new financial framework. 35. The rapporteur is mindful that most of Agencies' founding regulations are adopted under co-decision on a multi-annual basis, while they receive subsidies decided on an annual basis in the context of the budgetary procedure. Under tight ceilings and in the context of ABB (policy area approach), the specialised committees will have to indicate their priorities between the