form of an informal and inadequately considered Ministerial instruction to afford Equitable Life some temporary exemption from the strict application of the prudential regulations ... The fact that such an instruction would have been unlawful might explain why it was never rescinded!" WE69 continued claiming that " Equitable introduced the ill-defined with-profits annuity in 1987 and represented that it was a low risk product, despite the immediate and ongoing risks to the WP Fund: a competent and energetic regulator would have discovered what Equitable were really doing and would have acted by 1990 at the latest to protect the solvency of the Society and to address the serious threats to Policyholders’ Reasonable Expectations. One of those expectations was simply that Directors should run the business honestly and in such a way as to deal fairly between various types and generations of policyholders". In conclusion, Mr. JOSEPHS asked how " the regulatory departments, containing actuaries and other insurance experts, failed for 15 years to detect the strong stench of fraud which surrounded Equitable’s activities, or if they did detect it, how they avoided any effective action going after the source of that stench." In H11, Mr. BRAITHWAITE stated that he had no doubt that " the depth of potential catastrophe was recognized (in 1998 by the UK Treasury). I believe that since then the over-arching plan has been to deny culpability, avoid compensation and to cause delay after delay ..." He further claimed that "immediately following the Penrose report's publication, the FSA granted consecutive waivers to Equitable to ignore complaints, whilst an orchestrated response was being planned behind closed doors to see off potential claims arising from Penrose" , and subsequently " refused to publish its post-evaluation on the Penrose report and merely announced in July 2004 its conclusion that 'Penrose-related claims were unlikely to succeed'." He added that collusion between the Treasury, the FSA, EL and the FOS The Financial Ombudsman Service. "has just been categorically confirmed by two damning UK Treasury e-mails with dates in June 2004 obtained under a Freedom of Information request." see also oral evidence by Lord Neill (H11) quoting the email as " seeking to' provide FOS with a basis' for considering Penrose-related complaints and that discussion to this end would take place between the FSA and the FOS in the week following 18 June 2004." Finally, WE-CONF16 questioned the FSA's " highly selective interpretation of 'confidentiality' in the EL case", preventing it from informing policyholders whether a requested investigation on the EL case had been set up or not , while at the same time the FSA website gives access to press releases disclosing FSA investigations being conducted as well as their progress. Countering these allegations, WE-CONF8 emphatically dismissed any claim or allegation of 'collusion' between the regulators and EL, describing such accusations as " very serious" . However, "not being aware of any evidence that would support such a claim, there is no question of any collusion having occurred." Referring to allegations of collusion presented by policyholder groups, the current Equitable Life Chief Executive Mr.