made the statements. The following spoke: Joseph Daul , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Hannes Swoboda , on behalf of the PSE Group, Graham Watson , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Konrad Szymański , on behalf of the UEN Group, Daniel Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Francis Wurtz , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Bernard Wojciechowski , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Sylwester Chruszcz , Non-attached Member, and Bernard Kouchner . IN THE CHAIR: Marek SIWIEC Vice-President The following spoke: Elmar Brok , Jan Marinus Wiersma , Marco Cappato , Inese Vaidere , Marie Anne Isler Béguin , Tobias Pflüger , Bastiaan Belder , Jim Allister , José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra , Véronique De Keyser , Lydie Polfer , Vittorio Agnoletto , Bruno Gollnisch , Jacek Saryusz-Wolski , Dariusz Rosati , Janusz Onyszkiewicz , Mario Borghezio , Othmar Karas , Adrian Severin , Siiri Oviir , Wojciech Roszkowski , Stefano Zappalà , Libor Rouček , Mirosław Mariusz Piotrowski , Tunne Kelam , Katrin Saks , Christopher Beazley , Raimon Obiols i Germà , Árpád Duka-Zólyomi , Giulietto Chiesa , Vytautas Landsbergis and Pierre Pribetich . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Urszula Gacek , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Erik Meijer , Zita Pleštinská , Ioan Mircea Paşcu and Charles Tannock . The following spoke: Jean-Pierre Jouyet (President-in-Office of the Council) and Benita Ferrero-Waldner . As the motions for a resolution tabled were not yet available, they would be announced in the House at a later time. The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 03.09.2008, item 7.5 . 21 Evaluation of the Dublin system (continuation of debate) Report: on the evaluation of the Dublin system [ 2007/2262(INI) ] - Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. Rapporteur: Jean Lambert ( A6-0287/2008 ) The following spoke: Inger Segelström , Jacques Barrot (Vice-President of the Commission) and Jean Lambert . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 02.09.2008, item 5.17 . 22 Common frame of reference for European contract law (debate) Oral question ( O-0072/2008 ) by Klaus-Heiner Lehne , on behalf of the JURI Committee, to the Commission: Common frame of reference for European contract law ( B6-0456/2008 ) Hans-Peter Mayer (deputising for the author) moved the oral question. Meglena Kuneva (Member of the Commission) answered the oral question. The following spoke: Jacques Toubon , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Manuel Medina Ortega , on behalf of the PSE Group, Diana Wallis , on behalf of the ALDE Group, and Ieke van den Burg . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Andreas Schwab . The following spoke: Meglena Kuneva . Motions for a resolution to wind up the debate tabled pursuant to Rule 108(5): - Klaus-Heiner Lehne , on behalf of the JURI Committee, on the common frame of reference for European contract law ( B6-0374/2008 ) The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 03.09.2008, item 7.6 . 23 Certain issues relating to motor insurance (debate) Report: on certain issues relating to motor insurance [ 2007/2258(INI) ] - Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.