clearing and settlement of transactions concluded on the regulated market. Member States shall also ensure that regulated markets establish effective arrangements to monitor the continued compliance of members and participants with those rules. 2. Member States shall ensure that regulated markets may offer membership or access to any person, with the exception of those who lack the requisite expertise, experience and financial resources to trade on the regulated market in question . The competent authority shall assess whether the rules of a regulated market governing membership and access to that market are appropriate, taking into account the specific characteristics of the regulated market in question and, in particular, the nature of the financial instruments traded, as well as the infrastructure in place to facilitate management of the risks associated with access and with the orderly functioning of the market in question. 3. Member States shall ensure that the rules on access to or membership of the regulated market provide for the direct, indirect or remote participation of investment firms. 4. Member States shall, without further legal or administrative requirement, allow regulated markets from other Member States to provide appropriate arrangements on their territory so as to facilitate access to and trading on those markets by remote members or participants established in their territory. 5. Member States shall require the regulated market to communicate, on a regular basis, the list of its members and participants to its competent authority. Article 41 Monitoring of trading on regulated markets 1. Member States shall ensure that regulated markets establish and maintain effective arrangements and procedures for the regular monitoring of transactions undertaken by their members or participants under their rules and systems in order to identify breaches of those rules, disorderly trading conditions or conduct that may involve market abuse. 2. Member States shall require regulated markets to report breaches of their rules or of legal obligations relating to market integrity to the competent authority. Member States shall also require the regulated market to supply the relevant information immediately to the competent authority and to provide full assistance to the latter in investigating and prosecuting market abuse undertaken on or through the systems of the regulated market. Member States shall not require operators of regulated markets to provide details of insignificant breaches of their rules. Article 42 Pre-trade transparency requirements for regulated markets 1. Member States shall require regulated markets to make public current bid and offer prices which are advertised through their systems for shares admitted to trading. Member States shall require this information to be made available to the public on reasonable commercial terms and on a continuous basis during normal trading hours. Member States shall also require any regulated market to make public, through the arrangements employed for making public the information required under the first subparagraph, firm bid and offer prices in shares which it has admitted to trading and which are communicated to it by investment firms pursuant to Article 25. 2. Member States shall provide that the competent authorities may waive the obligation for regulated markets to make public the