the operations covered by this Regulation in accordance with the budgetary and other procedures in force, in particular those laid down in Articles 2, 116 and 118 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. Amendment 22 Article 11, point (f) (f) its commitment to defending, respecting and promoting human rights and democratic principles. (f) its commitment to defending, respecting and promoting human rights, democratic principles and humanitarian law . Amendment 23 Article 12, paragraph 3 3. Any financing agreement or contract concluded under this Regulation shall stipulate that the Commission and the Court of Auditors may carry out on-the-spot checks according to the usual arrangements laid down by the Commission under the provisions in force, particularly those in the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. 3. Any financing agreement or contract concluded under this Regulation shall stipulate that the Commission, the Court of Auditors and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may carry out , if necessary, on-the-spot checks according to the usual arrangements laid down by the Commission under the provisions in force, particularly those in the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. Amendment 24 Article 13, paragraph 1 1. Participation in invitations to tender and the award of contracts shall be open on equal terms to all natural and legal persons of the Member States and of the host country. It may be extended to other developing countries and, in duly substantiated exceptional cases, to other third countries. 1. Participation in invitations to tender and the award of contracts shall be open on equal terms to all natural and legal persons of the Member States and of the host country. It may be extended to operators in other developing countries and, in exceptional cases, to other third countries. Amendment 25 Article 13, paragraph 2 2. Supplies shall originate in the Member States, the host country, or other developing countries . In duly substantiated exceptional cases supplies may originate elsewhere. 2. Supplies shall originate in the host country, other developing countries or the Member States . In exceptional cases supplies may originate elsewhere. Amendment 26 Article 14, paragraph 1 1. In order to secure the objectives of consistency and complementarity referred to in the Treaty and to ensure maximum effectiveness of these operations as a whole, the Commission may take all necessary coordination measures, including: 1. In order to secure the objectives of consistency and complementarity referred to in the Treaty and to ensure maximum effectiveness of the operations provided for in this Regulation, these shall be subject to on-the-spot operational coordination and shall form an integral part of the country strategy process. (a) establishing a system for the systematic exchange and analysis of information on the operations financed and those which the Community and the Member States propose to finance; (b) on-the-spot coordination of the implementation of operations through regular meetings and exchanges of information between the representatives of the Commission and the Member States in the recipient country. Amendment 27 Article 15 The budgetary