assist SMEs, referred to as the Small Business Act for Europe (SBA). The objective of the SBA is to make it easier for SMEs to do business in the Single Market and consequently to improve their market performance. The SPE is one of the priority initiatives of the Commission's 2008 Work Programme Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of Regions: "Commission Legislative and Work Programme 2008" – COM(2007)0640 . . Your draftswoman agrees with the approach of the Commission proposal, according to which the creation of a SPE is not subject to a cross-border requirement (e.g. shareholders from different Member States or evidence of cross-border activity). E ntrepreneurs usually set up businesses in their own Member State before expanding to other countries. An initial cross-border requirement would, therefore, significantly reduce the potential of the instrument. Nevertheless, your draftsperson would like to point out some deficiencies in the proposal put forward by the Commission. Firstly the approach chosen by the Commission entail that companies, including SMEs are not offered a complete European solution. In many instances the Commissions proposal refers back to national legislation. Such a partial approach to harmonisation could actually dampen the interest of companies, including SMEs, in using the SPE. If an SME wanted to expand its business into several Member States through setting up an SPE it would not be enough for it to know European law but also the law of every Member State into which it wants to expand its business. Eventually this proposals contribution to growth and completion of the internal market may be very limited. To be viable and meaningful, the SPE regime should be configured as a proper 28th regime available for all SMEs wishing to operate in a Member States as well as in whole European Union to seize the benefits and potential of the Internal Market. Secondly, for the SPE to be a real economically interesting alternative the question of taxation will have to be addressed at EU level. This is a lesson learned from the experience with the European Company Statute (Societas Europaea – SE). Your draftsperson considers that the proposal for a European Private Company must be tax neutral for Member States. Therefore she considers that there is a need to define a common tax regime specific to the SPE in order to overcome burdens and costs and of compliance with national tax systems, to guarantee a level playing field to all SPE, to avoid distortion of competition and harmful tax competition. Thirdly, it is important to ensure disclosure and information at European level about SPEs established within the EU, in order to guarantee consistency between the specific regime of the SPE and the appropriate dimension on the Internal Market, to create transparency for the market and to help coordination among national authorities. Fourthly, it is necessary to foresee a higher minimum share capital requirement for the SPE as a means guarantee creditors. Since a minimum capital may not be sufficient to guarantee the creditors it would