Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (16 April 2009) 1. The car industry has been experiencing a very difficult market environment recently as tighter credit conditions have combined with very low consumer confidence and declining purchasing power to produce a negative impact on the vehicle market. The situation varies with the Member States, but the downturn is now affecting virtually every market in the EU. The Commission would point out that workers likely to be affected by this phenomenon may qualify for support under the European Social Fund (ESF) and, provided that the necessary conditions are met, under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF). The Honourable Member is invited to contact the national authorities responsible for managing and implementing the ESF. In compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, such funding is allocated at national level, under the exclusive responsibility of the Portuguese authorities, on the basis of eligibility criteria and conditions to be fully respected by the funding beneficiaries. As regards the EGF, the Commission would emphasise that applications must be submitted by the Member States. 2. The recently adopted Temporary Agency Work Directive Directive 2008/104/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on temporary agency work (OJ L 327, 5.12.2008). aims to ensure better protection of temporary agency workers and introduces the principle of equal treatment for agency workers from the first day of their assignment, providing for only a number of limited possibilities for derogation that must involve the social partners. The directive, which is to be transposed into national law by 2011, establishes minimum requirements and is without prejudice to national provisions that are more favourable to workers. 3. The Commission understands the concerns of European workers, which are fuelled by the current crisis. In November 2008 it adopted a European Economic Recovery Plan which aims to reduce the social costs of the economic downturn to a minimum and focuses on the most vulnerable to help people return to the labour market quickly. The Plan proposes several actions to support employment that might support the automotive sector too: in particular these involve simplifying the criteria for ESF support, stepping up advance payments from early 2009, providing for the possibility of refocusing national programmes to concentrate support on the most vulnerable, and revising the rules governing the EGF to allow it to intervene more rapidly and to expand its scope. Furthermore, building on the Recovery Plan, the Commission adopted a Communication on 4 March 2009setting out various measures to improve access to credit, clarify the rules for granting state aid in these special circumstances, boost demand for new vehicles through coordinated national action, reduce social costs to a minimum, retain the skilled workforce and defend fair competition in open markets. The Commission also suggested a new partnership between industry, trade unions and Member States in connection with the CARS 21 process to accompany the common crisis response. The Initiative for Investment and Employment (‘Iniciativa para o Investimento e Emprego’ (IIE)) approved by the Portuguese Government on 19 January 2009 includes several