Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (20 December 2006) As indicated in its response to previous Written Question E‑3848/06 by the Honourable Member, the Commission, not being an enforcing agency, is not in a position to assess concrete cases. The Commission would like to confirm that it remains the exclusive competence of national authorities and courts to apply the national laws implementing EC law, including the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive (UCP) 2005/29/EC Directive 2005/29/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and amending Council Directive 84/450/EEC, Directives 97/7/EC and 2002/65/EC of Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 of Parliament and of the Council ('Unfair Commercial Practices Directive'), OJ L 149, 11.6.2005. . The Commission is of course responsible for assessing non-compliance or inadequate transposition of EC law, through the infringement procedures. The Commission is not aware of the facts behind the case and whether music downloads are actually offered for free or whether there are other factors included in the practice other than the unavoidable costs. The Commission can only refer to the relevant provisions of the directive generally. Several provisions of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive protect consumers from misleading commercial practices, such as misleading consumers by claiming that something is ‘free’, when this is not the case. The Black List contains commercial practices which will be banned across the EU in all circumstances (Annex I of the UCP Directive). According to Point 20 ‘Describing a product as “gratis”, “free”, “without charge” or similar if the consumer has to pay anything other than the unavoidable cost of responding to the commercial practice and collecting or paying for delivery of the item’ is banned as a misleading commercial practice. Any other type of misleading use of words such as ‘free’ will be assessed under the more general provisions of the directive on misleading actions and omissions or unfair practices, in the light of the ‘average consumer’ benchmark. The Commission believes that the UCP Directive provides Member States with the means to take preventive and proactive action. The Commission further expects that cooperation between consumer protection enforcement bodies in Member States, as set up by Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 of Parliament and of the Council of 27 October 2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (‘the regulation on consumer protection cooperation’), OJ L 346, 9.12.2004. , will contribute to facilitate action by Member States. The provisions on mutual assistance will enter into force from 29 December 2006. As correctly stated, the deadline for transposition of UCP into national laws is 12 June 2007 The Member States must apply the national laws based on the directive by 12 December 2007. . In accordance with better regulation principles, the Commission is working closely with Member States and other stakeholders during the transposition period, in order to facilitate timely and correct transposition and uniform application of UCP. For these purposes, the Commission has established a