Answer given by Mr Andor on behalf of the Commission (15 February 2011) 1 and 2. The Commission recalls that Council Directive 1999/70/EC Council Directive 1999/70/EC of 28 June 1999 concerning the framework agreement on fixed-term work concluded by ETUC, UNICE and CEEP (OJ L 175, 10.7.1999). requires that employers shall not treat fixed-term workers in a less favourable manner than comparable permanent workers solely because they have a fixed-term contract or relation unless different treatment is justified on objective grounds. The directive also provides for measures to prevent abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term employment contracts or relationships. While the directive falls short of requiring Member States to put in place a mechanism for the conversion of successive fixed-term contracts into permanent contracts, it obliges Member States to take effective measures to prevent abuse, including objective reasons justifying the renewal of such contracts or relationships; the maximum total duration of successive fixed-term employment contracts or relationships; the number of renewals of such contracts or relationships. In addition, employers are required to inform fixed-term workers about vacancies which become available in the undertaking or establishment and, as far as possible, facilitate access by fixed-term workers to appropriate training opportunities to enhance their skills, career development and occupational mobility. 3 to 5. The Commission would refer the Honourable Member to its communication ‘Youth on the move’ adopted on 15 September 2010 COM(2010)477 final. , which concerns one of the seven flagship initiatives of the Europe 2020 Strategy. This flagship initiative aims to help young people to gain the knowledge, skills and experience they need to make finding a job and developing their careers a reality. The communication proposes a set of key actions to make education and training more relevant to young people's needs, to encourage more of them to take advantage of EU grants to study or train in another country, and to overcome obstacles to entering the labour market, including through apprenticeships and traineeships. The communication also encourages Member States to consider introducing open-ended ‘single’ contracts with gradual increase in employee protection rights in order to make it more attractive for employers to hire young people and to reduce the segmentation in the labour market. This point was reiterated in the key messages of the Annual Growth Survey (AGS) adopted on 12 January 2011 COM(2011)11 final. . The AGS launched the first cycle of coordination of the Member States' macroeconomic, budgetary and structural reform policies, known as the ‘European semester’. The Commission would stress that it is first and foremost the Member States’ responsibility to put policies and measures in place for the better integration of young people into the labour market. The policy framework for youth employment as proposed in ‘Youth on the Move’ and in the Europe 2020 strategy more broadly provides guidance to Member States in this respect.