likely to have significant effects on the environment in another Member State, or where a Member State likely to be significantly affected so requests, the Member State in whose territory the plan or programme is being prepared shall, before its adoption or submission to the legislative procedure, forward a copy of the draft plan or programme and the relevant environmental report to the other Member State. 1. Where a Member State considers that the implementation of a plan or programme being prepared in relation to its territory is likely to have significant effects on the environment in another State, or where a State likely to be significantly affected so requests, the Member State in whose territory the plan or programme is being prepared shall, before its adoption or submission to the legislative procedure, forward a copy of the draft plan or programme and the relevant environmental report to the other State. (Amendment 17) Article 9(1)(ba) (new) (ba) the measures decided for monitoring the implementation of the plan or programme in order to assess the accuracy of the predictions and the effectiveness of mitigation measures and to instigate any remedial action that may be required. (Amendment 18) Article 9a(new) Article 9a Monitoring The Member States shall be responsible for monitoring the implementation of the environmental protection measures contained in the plans and programmes to which this Directive relates. They shall establish appropriate monitoring systems with a view to ensuring and checking the effectiveness of environmental impact corrective measures. (Amendment 19) Article 10(2) 2. For plans and programmes for which the obligation to carry out assessments of the effects on the environment arises simultaneously from this Directive and other Community legislation, Member States may provide for coordinated or joint procedures fulfilling the requirements of the relevant Community legislation in order inter alia to avoid duplication of assessment. 2. For plans and programmes for which the obligation to carry out assessments of the effects on the environment arises simultaneously from this Directive and other Community legislation, Member States shall provide for coordinated or joint procedures fulfilling the requirements of the relevant Community legislation in order to rule out duplication of assessment. (Amendment 20) Article 11(2) 2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission any measures they take concerning the quality of environmental reports. 2. Member States shall ensure that appropriate measures are taken in order to guarantee that environmental reports are of sufficient quality to meet the minimum requirements of the Directive and to prevent decisions being taken on the basis of an environmental report which does not comply with these requirements. Member States shall communicate these measures to the Commission. (Amendment 22) Article 11(4) 4. The Commission shall report on the relationship between this Directive and Regulations (EC) No 1260/ 99 and No 1257/ 99 well ahead of the expiry of the programming periods provided for in those Regulations. 4. The Commission shall report on the relationship between this Directive, Regulations (EC) No 1260/ 1999 and No 1257/ 1999 and other related Community legislation well ahead of the expiry of the programming periods provided