shall be published by the Council in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the Centre's Internet site . Amendment 4 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2 Article 4, paragraph 4 (Regulation (EEC) No 337/75) 4. The Governing Board shall elect its chairman and three vice-chairmen, from among the three groups referred to in paragraph 5 and the Commission , to serve for a period of one year renewable. 4. The Governing Board shall elect its chairman and three vice-chairmen, from among the three groups referred to in paragraph 5, to serve for a period of two years renewable. Amendment 5 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2 Article 4, paragraph 5 (Regulation (EEC) No 337/75) 5. Within the Governing Board, the representatives of governments, employees" organisations and employers" organisations shall form a group each. Each group shall designate a co-ordinator. The co-ordinators of the employees" and the employers" groups shall be representatives of their respective organisations at European level and attend the Board meetings without the right to vote. 5. Within the Governing Board, the representatives of governments, employees" organisations and employers" organisations shall form a group each. Each group shall designate a co-ordinator. The co-ordinators of the employees" and the employers" groups shall be representatives of their respective organisations at European level and attend the Board and Bureau meetings without the right to vote. Amendment 6 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2 Article 4, paragraph 8a (new) (Regulation (EEC) No 337/75) 8a. The Member States, the organisations referred to in paragraph 2, the Council, the Commission and the Governing Board shall endeavour, each according to their powers, to ensure a balanced representation of men and women in the candidacies and appointments referred to in paragraph 2, in the elections referred to in paragraph 4 and in the appointments referred to in paragraph 8. Amendment 7 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2a (new) Article 6, paragraph 1 (Regulation (EEC) No 337/75) (2a) Article 6(1) shall be replaced by the following: "1. The director and deputy director shall be appointed by the Commission from a list of candidates submitted by the Governing Board." Amendment 8 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2b (new) Article 6, paragraph 2 (Regulation (EEC) No 337/75) (2b) Article 6(2) shall be replaced by the following: "2. The director and the deputy director shall be chosen on the grounds of their competence and their independence shall be beyond doubt." Amendment 9 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2c (new) Article 6, paragraph 2a (new) (Regulation (EEC) No 337/75) (2c) In Article 6 the following paragraph 2a shall be added: "2a. The director and the deputy director shall be appointed for a period of five years. Their term of office shall be renewable."