Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (6 October 2010) More than 800 severe forest and peat bog fires raging in more than 20 oblasts in the Russian Federation in July and August led to an extremely serious situation for the Russian population and caused widespread damage and tragic loss of life. An state of emergency was declared in a number of regions. Heavy smog in Moscow from peat fires on the outskirts of the Russian capital led to much higher than normal pollution levels and to concerns about the impact on people’s health, especially children, the elderly, and those suffering from respiratory diseases. Death rates rose significantly in the affected areas and more than 50 people lost their lives as a direct effect of the fires. When cooler weather and rains, in the second half of August put an end to the heat wave the situation significantly improved and on 23 August 2010 an end to forest fires in the Moscow region was reported. While the risk to settlements is now much reduced, there continued to be isolated incidents of fires leading to destruction of houses in September 2010. During the crisis, the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry (EMERCOM) was exchanging information on a daily basis on the latest developments with counterparts in the Commission, notably the Commission’s Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC). This was the result of the existing 2004 Administrative Arrangement between the European Commission — Humanitarian Aid & Civil Protection (ECHO) and EMERCOM. In addition, the Health Security Committee (HSC), an expert group consisting of officials of EU Member States and Commission, was regularly informed by the Commission on the situation, with regular assessment on possible health risks for EU citizens being prepared by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). As the Honourable Member states in his question, there were concerns about the potential risk to nuclear facilities in Russia. However, according to the information available to the Commission, as confirmed also by Member States, there was no imminent risk to any such facilities. Moreovere, there was a risk of fire of forests, which had been radioactively polluted as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Two issues were of potential concern; the concentration of radioactive particles, and the direction of winds that might spread them towards the EU territory. While the imminent actual risk related to the suspension of radionuclides was considered negligible the Commission was monitoring the evolution of that risk closely. As it were, the wildfires did not have any other acute impact on people's healt on the EU territory. The Commission’s information is that the Russian authorities undertook measures to ensure protection of facilities with radioactive material and aimed at preventing the spreading of fires to areas with radioactive pollution by deploying additional firefighting resources to this region. According to Russian Government departments, no excessive radiation levels caused by wildfires in Russia have been registered. The EU’s response to the crisis was effective. During the crisis, the EU’s structures, in particular the Commission’s Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC), the