Answer given by High Representative/Vice‑President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (10 February 2012) Shortly after the start of the Libyan revolution the EU confirmed its strong support for the pro-democratic forces in Libya. At the political level this was reflected by the adoption of political declarations (European Council and Foreign Affairs Council Conclusions) but also by actions such as the visit of the High Representative/Vice‑President (HR/VP) Catherine Ashton to Benghazi on 22 May 2011. The HR/VP travelled to Libya again on 12 November 2011, this time to open the EU Delegation in Tripoli and to meet the newly appointed Prime Minister Al Keib as well as the Chairman of the Libyan National Transitional Council, Mr Abdul Jalil. During her stay the HR/VP also participated in the National Conference of Libyan Women. Regarding material assistance, the EU has used its thematic instruments in order to undertake projects in support of Libya’s nascent civil society and to address human rights violations in the ongoing conflict. Some of these projects are currently being implemented and more are about to be launched. Moreover, upon the request of the Libyan authorities, the EU is helping to address the most pressing needs via deployment of experts to assist in a wide variety of sectors (e.g. civil society, media and communication). At present, the efforts of the international community are concentrating on support to the transition. The EU, the UN and the WB are closely cooperating on post conflict needs assessment and in the preparation of assistance measures. A substantial part of EU future cooperation will be devoted to governance, state building, rule of law and human rights. The EU has passed a clear message to the Libyan interim authorities regarding the fundamental importance of the democratic nature of the transition process. In this regard, the Honourable Member will find the link to the conclusions adopted by the EU Foreign Affairs Council on 14 November 2011: http://www.consilium.europa.eu/uedocs/cms_data/docs/pressdata/EN/foraff/126042.pdf