in the UK and other Member States: a comparative study was commissioned under the committee's expertise budget, with experts being asked to examine how the provisions on prudential supervision and conduct of business rules of life assurance undertakings as laid down in the relevant EU Directives were transposed into UK law. The study identified for each of those provisions the matching UK provisions and indicated, by way of a transposition table, when they entered into force. The transposition in the UK was then compared to implementing legislation in Ireland, Germany and Spain. The contents of the study served as input for this working document. II. Investigation into the correct transposition into UK law of the 3LD and its application/implementation by UK authorities in relation to the ELAS Introduction The first task is to identify clearly those provisions of UK national law intended to give effect to the requirements of the Directive and to evaluate whether they are of the same quality and require the same standards, both in terms of the letter and the ultimate aim of the directive. The fact that the UK implemented the directive in a fragmented way (i.e., the directive was transposed not into one single national law but spread throughout different acts of varying hierarchy) is not helpful from the outset. Determining whether this means of transposition gave rise to difficulties which thwarted effective regulation is one of the objectives of this investigation. A second objective would be to ascertain whether the responsible regulators indeed fulfilled the requirements of national law and, consequently, of the EU Directive. It might be that the Directive was defectively transposed and that the regulators faithfully applied defective and insufficient national law; on the other hand, it could also be that the directive was faithfully and fully transposed but the regulators did not completely fulfil their responsibilities and did not uphold both the letter and the spirit of both UK and EU law. Conversely, both these scenarios could be wrong, i.e. not only was the EU Directive correctly transposed but the regulators also acted adequately. Finally, there could be a mixed picture (incorrect transposition compounded by incorrect application). The outcome of these investigations will be clearly laid out in the conclusions of this part of the report. Moreover, these conclusions feed into the contents of Part V on systematic weaknesses in the Commission and how they have contributed to the ELAS crisis. In this part, the concept of implementation used as reference throughout the report of the Committee of Inquiry will be also developed. The methodology followed is: first, to identify one by one the key provisions of the 3LD relevant to the ELAS case, particularly as regards the monitoring of financial health, state of solvency and the establishment of adequate technical provisions; second, to identify and analyze the matching implementing provisions in UK law to ascertain if they fulfil the quality requirements of the directive; third, to evaluate the performance of the regulator taking into account the thresholds, benchmarks and requirements that have been set in those matching implementing provisions as