therefore ask the European Commission to examine the effect of the current retail concentration on the functioning of the European internal market and to propose measures to counteract any infringement of EU competition law. Written declarations MEPs can use written declarations to start or prompt a debate on a subject that comes within the EU’s remit. To be formally adopted. it must be signed by over half of the 785 members. The text is then forwarded to the President, who announces it in plenary and it is then forwarded to the institutions named. Other examples of adopted written declarations: more publicity for the European "112" emergency number an end to testing on primates Also on Monday During the day's other debates, MEPs turned their attention to transparency in financial matters and the fight against fraud and EU market access for European companies. MEPs also discussed a report from the Civil Liberties Committee on how to prevent radicalisation and the recruitment of terrorists. Watch Tuesday's debates and votes by clicking below Written declaration on investigating and remedying the abuse of power by large supermarkets operating in the European Union Post briefing: full round up of Strasbourg Plenary Tuesday in Plenary: Swedish PM, goods package, Lisbon strategy Swedish PM Fredrik Reinfeldt during his speech in the EP hemicycle A series of restrictions on goods, from bikes to bread, which prevent trade across the EU will be swept away after MEPs reached agreement Tuesday. The House also debated the EU's Lisbon strategy on jobs and growth and heard a speech from Swedish Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt. He called for more cooperation on climate change, immigration and asylum. He also said the Union should not to abandon its enlargement strategy. Free movement of goods On Tuesday morning MEPs debated three legislative reports on the marketing of products across Europe. The "goods package" is expected to speed up the free movement of goods within the EU. Three reports, by German MEP André Brie (GUE/NGL), Danish Socialist Christel Schaldemose and Finnish EPP-ED Member Alexander Stubb were examined, covering various aspects of the marketing of goods, including health and safety, technical and environmental standards and bureaucratic obstacles to trade. "What I want to say to all small and medium-sized businesses in Europe is that there is no need ever again to fill in a form to apply to enter the market of another country," said Mr Stubb. He told a press conference: "with my report, there should absolutely be no trade barriers, no bureaucracy unless for health and safety purposes". Swedish PM: "Don't build a wall against Turkey" After Tuesday's votes the afternoon was devoted to a debate on the future of Europe. The Swedish Prime Minister was the latest European figure to address the House as part of this series. Mr Reinfeldt told the House that he looked forward to the Swedish presidency of the EU (July-December 2009), when he hopes for "very close cooperation between Member States on issues like climate change, energy, immigration, the Balkans, the EU as a global player and a common asylum policy