at risk. 3.6.2. An active substance shall only be approved if, on the basis of assessment of higher tier genotoxicity testing carried out in accordance with the data requirements for the active substances and the plant protection products and other available data and information including a review of the scientific literature , it is not or has not to be classified, in accordance with the provisions of Directive 67/548/EEC, as a mutagen category 1 or 2. Such active substances may only be approved if the exposure of humans to that active substance in a plant protection product, under realistic▐ conditions of use, is negligible , as the product is used in closed systems or in other conditions excluding contact with humans and where residues of the active substance concerned on food and feed do not exceed the limit of determination using the most sensitive methods . 3.6.3. An active substance shall only be approved if, on the basis of assessment of carcinogenicity testing carried out in accordance with the data requirements for the active substances and the plant protection products and other available data and information including a review of the scientific literature , it is not or has not to be classified, in accordance with the provisions of Directive 67/548/EEC, as a carcinogen category 1 or 2. Such active substances may only be approved if the exposure of humans to that active substance in a plant protection product, under realistic ▐conditions of use, is negligible , as the product is used in closed systems or in other conditions excluding contact with humans and where residues of the active substance concerned on food and feed do not exceed the limit of determination using the most sensitive methods . 3.6.4. An active substance shall only be approved if, on the basis of assessment of reproductive toxicity testing carried out in accordance with the data requirements for the active substances and the plant protection products and other available data and information including a review of the scientific literature , it is not or has not to be classified, in accordance with the provisions of Directive 67/548/EEC, as toxic for reproduction category 1 or 2. Such active substances may only be approved if the exposure of humans to that active substance in a plant protection product, under realistic ▐conditions of use, is negligible , as the product is used in closed systems or in other conditions excluding contact with humans and where residues of the active substance concerned on food and feed do not exceed the limit of determination using the most sensitive methods . 3.6.5. An active substance shall only be approved if, on the basis of the assessment of Community or internationally agreed test guidelines or other available data and information including a review of the scientific literature it is not considered to have endocrine disrupting properties that are suspected to be of toxicological significance in humans including when exposure is likely to happen during embryonic/foetal life and/or during childhood, taking due account of likely combination effects. Such active substances may only be