unless this is carried out in accordance with a client order aggregation policy or by agreement with the client. 3. Member States shall ensure that investment firms, before proceeding to execute retail client orders , disclose to their retail clients their execution policy, including whether orders are to be executed under or outside the rules and systems operated by a regulated market or MTF, and obtain their consent to it. This consent may be obtained either at the outset of the client relationship in the form of a general agreement or in respect of individual transactions. If the prior consent of clients is given in the form of a general agreement, it should be contained in a separate section. Member States shall ensure that investment firms inform their clients of any significant change to their execution policy. Following any such significant change, clients shall always have the right to terminate without delay the contractual arrangement made with the investment firm . 4. Member States shall require that, in the case of a client limit order for shares which cannot be immediately executed under prevailing market conditions, investment firms are, unless the client expressly instructs otherwise, to take measures to facilitate the earliest possible execution of that order by making public immediately the client limit order, in particular by forwarding the client limit order to a regulated market or MTF or by some other means which ensures that it is easily accessible to other market participants. Member States shall provide that the competent authorities are to be able to waive the obligation to make public a limit order that is large in scale compared with normal market size as determined under Article 42(2). 5. In order to ensure that measures for the protection of investors and fair and orderly functioning of markets take account of technical developments in financial markets, and to ensure the consistent application of paragraphs 1 to 4, the Commission may adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), implementing measures which define: a) the conditions and nature of the procedures and arrangements which result in the prompt, fair and expeditious execution of client orders and the situations in which or types of transaction for which investment firms may reasonably deviate from prompt execution so as obtain more favourable terms for clients; b) the procedures for obtaining and renewing client consent prior to executing those orders outside the rules and systems of a regulated market or MTF. 6. The competent authority of the home Member State shall ensure that the obligations of this provision and the implementing measures adopted under paragraph 5 are complied with by investment firms when providing services in other Member States. The competent authority of the Member State in which a branch is located shall enforce the obligations of this provision and any implementing measures adopted under paragraph 5 in respect of the services provided by a branch to its clients. Article 21 Obligations of investment firms when employing tied agents 1.. Member States shall ensure that an investment firm may employ tied