been the subject of trade restrictive measures in respect of fishery products adopted by an RFMO; Amendment 54 Proposal for a regulation Article 30 – paragraph 7 7. Where appropriate, specific constraints of developing countries, in particular in respect to monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities, shall be duly taken into consideration in the implementation of this Article. 7. Where appropriate, specific constraints of developing countries, in particular in respect to monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities, shall be duly taken into consideration in the implementation of this Article. The Commission shall, within three months of the entry into force of this Regulation, publish an analysis of its probable impact on developing countries and a proposal for the funding of specific programmes to support its implementation and eliminate possible negative impacts. Amendment 55 Proposal for a regulation Article 34 The Commission shall take any measure necessary to ensure publicity of the list of non-cooperating states, in a manner consistent with any applicable confidentiality requirements, including placing it on the DG Fisheries website. The list shall be regularly updated and the Commission shall provide for a system to automatically notify updates to Member States, Regional Fisheries Management Organisations and any member of the civil society that should so request. Furthermore, the Commission shall transmit list of non-cooperating states to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and to Regional Fisheries Management Organisations for the purposes of enhancing co-operation between the European Community and these organisations aimed at preventing, deterring and eliminating IUU fishing. The Commission shall publish the list of non-cooperating states in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall take any measure necessary to ensure publicity of that list of non-cooperating states, including placing it on the DG Fisheries website in a manner consistent with any applicable confidentiality requirements . The list shall be regularly updated and the Commission shall provide for a system to automatically notify updates to Member States, Regional Fisheries Management Organisations and any member of the civil society that should so request. Furthermore, the Commission shall transmit list of non-cooperating states to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and to Regional Fisheries Management Organisations for the purposes of enhancing co-operation between the European Community and these organisations aimed at preventing, deterring and eliminating IUU fishing. Amendment 56 Proposal for a regulation Article 36 – point h a (new) (ha) Member States shall refuse to allow the export of a vessel flying their flag that is on the IUU list; Amendment 57 Proposal for a regulation Article 36 – point j a (new) (ja) The Member States may not under any circumstances grant support or subsidies to IUU vessels. Amendment 58 Proposal for a regulation Article 37 – point h h) Member States shall inform importers, transhippers, buyers, equipment suppliers, bankers, and operators carrying out other services, of the risks associated with conducting business operations linked to fishing activities with nationals of any of such states; h) Each Member State shall inform importers, transhippers, buyers, equipment suppliers, bankers, and operators