will encourage reflection and discussion on the need to promote their greater participation in society in all sectors and at all levels, taking into account the fact that women make up more than half the population of the European Union and are under-represented in all sectors of decision-making and at all levels. Amendment 8 Article 2, point (c) (c) Recognition – Celebrating and accommodating diversity – The European Year will highlight the positive contribution that people, irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, capacities, age and sexual orientation can make to society as a whole, in particular by accentuating the benefits of diversity. (c) Recognition - Celebrating and accommodating diversity - The European Year will highlight the positive contribution that people, irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, capacities, age and sexual orientation can make to society as a whole, in particular by accentuating the benefits of diversity. The contribution to society of women of all ages and groups (especially Roma women) is considerable and yet widely under-estimated. Amendment 9 Article 2, point (d) (d) Respect and tolerance – Promoting a more cohesive society –The European Year will raise awareness about the importance of, promoting good relations between all in society, and in particular among young people, and promoting and disseminating the values underlying the fight against discrimination. (d) Respect and tolerance - Promoting a more cohesive and responsible society - The European Year will raise awareness about the importance of eliminating stereotypes, prejudice and violence, promoting good relations between all in society and in particular among young people, and promoting and disseminating the values underlying the fight against discrimination, in particular the responsibility for this which rests with members of the public and civic organisations. Amendment 10 Article 2, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. In all the activities referred to in paragraph 1, the elimination of inequalities and the promotion of equality between men and women shall be a horizontal aim. Amendment 11 Article 3, paragraph 1, point (c) (c) cooperation with media, business and enterprise; (c) cooperation with media, business and enterprise at local, regional and national level and non-governmental organisations active in the field of combating discrimination ; Amendment 12 Article 4, paragraph 3 It shall conduct a regular exchange of views with stakeholders particularly at European level on the design, implementation and follow-up of the European Year. To that end, the Commission shall make the relevant information available to such stakeholders. The Commission shall inform the Committee established under Article 6(1) of their opinion. It shall conduct a regular exchange of views with stakeholders particularly at European level on the design, implementation , follow-up and assessment of the European Year. To that end, the Commission shall make the relevant information available to such stakeholders. The Commission shall inform the Committee established under Article 6(1) of their opinion. Justification Stakeholders in the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All must be able to participate fully not only in the design and implementation of the objectives of the European Year but also