2a In the context of the activities under the EDCTP Programme referred to in the annex to this decision, the common structure must ensure a high level of involvement of developing countries at all stages. Based on their full participation in the decision-making procedures of the EDCTP, including setting and implementing strategic objectives and representation in the EDCTP executive structure, developing-country ownership of programme activities will be ensured. Justification The structure of the EDCTP will have to ensure an active participation and responsibility of the developing countries in the decisions on priorities and agenda, and the common structure must ensure this. Amendment 22 Article 3 The participating States shall be jointly and severally liable for carrying out the activities described in the annex . The participating States shall be jointly and severally liable for carrying out the activities described in Annex I . Justification Necessary in view of the insertion of a new Annex Ia. Amendment 23 Article 3 a (new) Article 3a The Community shall ensure, in the implementation of the EDCTP Programme’s activities described in the annex to this Decision, that the strategic decisions and the implementation of the programmes meet the objective of placing on the market effective products, accessible at the lowest possible price, whose use is easy and suited to the specific conditions of the developing countries. Justification The programme’s ultimate aim must be to place on the market products suited and accessible to the developing countries’ populations, to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries. Amendment 24 Article 4 The Commission and the Court of Auditors may, through their officials or agents, carry out all the checks and inspections needed to ensure proper management of the Community funds and protect the financial interests of the Community against any fraud or irregularity. To this end, the participating States and the common structure shall make all relevant documents available to the Commission and the Court of Auditors. The Commission and the Court of Auditors may, through their officials or agents, carry out all the checks and inspections needed to ensure proper management of the Community funds and protect the financial interests of the Community against any fraud or irregularity. The Commission shall ensure control of the Community funds managed by the common structure. To this end, the participating States and the common structure shall make all relevant documents available to the European Parliament, the Commission and the Court of Auditors. Justification A sufficient control over the common structure has to be ensured by the Commission. The relevant documents should be made available to the European Parliament. Amendment 25 Article 5 The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and calls on the participating States and the common structure to forward any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the financial management of the common structure. The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and forward any additional information