WRITTEN QUESTION P-3070/09 by Frank Vanhecke (NI) to the Council (27 April 2009) Subject: Transitional allowances Under current provisions laid down in Regulation No 422/67/EEC, 5/67/Euratom OJ 187, 8.8.1967 , p. 1. of the Council of 25 July 1967 determining the emoluments of the President and members of the Commission, of the President, Judges, Advocates-General and Registrar of the Court of Justice and of the President, Members and Registrar of the Court of First Instance, the persons concerned are entitled, for three years, to a monthly transitional allowance equal to between 40 % and 65 % of the basic salary which they were receiving when they ceased to hold office, the percentage being geared to length of service. This means that, for example, people who have worked as a European Commissioner for only a few months nonetheless receive a generous allowance for three years. If the people to whom this regulation applies accept a new post within the three years, the gross monthly remuneration from that post is deducted from the transitional allowance to the extent that the remuneration plus the allowance exceeds the former salary. If the remuneration from the new post together with the transitional allowance is less than the former salary, they may receive both their new remuneration and their ‘transitional allowance’ (answer by Commissioner Kallas to my Written Question E‑2637/04 of 26 October 2004). This arrangement is quite rightly being heavily criticised. The Taxpayers' Association of Europe (TAE) has in the past called for it to be changed. The TAE not only wishes, justifiably, to see the transitional allowance lapse as soon as a new post is accepted: it also considers the allowance to be disproportionately large. Pursuant to Article 210 of the EC Treaty and Article 123 of the Euratom Treaty, the Council has the exclusive power to decide the system of remuneration, without any proposal from the Commission. Will the Council amend Regulation No 422/67/EEC, 5/67/Euratom in the manner proposed by the TAE? If so, which provisions will it amend? If not, why not?