are essential for long-term political and social stability in the country; D. whereas the coming parliamentary elections to the People’s Assembly and to the Shoura Council, to be held in late 2011 and early 2012, as well as the presidential election to be held in 2012 will be milestones in the process of democratic transition in Egypt; E. whereas, on 9 October 2011, violent incidents during a peaceful march organised by Coptic Christians in Cairo, following an attack on a Coptic church in Aswan, resulted in the death of 25 civilians and members of the military, and in more than 300 injured; F. whereas Coptic Pope Shenouda III blamed the incitement to violence on infiltrators who had joined the peaceful demonstration; whereas religious leaders, including Al-Azhar Grand Imam Ahmed al-Tayeb, reiterated their call and support for national unity and inter-faith dialogue in Egypt; G. whereas the Egyptian government established a fact-finding committee composed by members of the judiciary to investigate into these incidents with the aim of holding accountable those responsible for inciting violence and for violent actions; H. whereas, in its statement of 12 October 2011, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces reaffirmed its commitment to the rule of law, to respect the right of all citizens to protest peacefully, and to the freedoms of assembly, belief and expression; I. whereas civilians continue being brought before military tribunals in Egypt; whereas 25-year-old blogger Maikel Nabil Sanad was arrested on 28 March 2011 in Cairo and sentenced to three years in prison by a military tribunal without the presence of his lawyers; whereas he has been on a hunger and thirst strike for weeks and is currently in a critical health condition; J. whereas, in its statement on freedom of association in Egypt of 18 October 2011, the Euro-Mediterranean Human Rights Network expressed it concerns about the situation of NGOs in the country; Syria K. whereas, according to UN estimates, more than 3000 people have lost their lives, including at least 187 children, and many more have been injured and detained since March 2011 as a result of the brutal repression by the Syrian regime against its population; whereas, despite widespread international condemnation, violent crackdowns and human rights violations by security forces against civilians and their families continue and further increase in Syria; L. whereas the reforms and amnesties announced and promised by President Bashar al-Assad have never been put into practice; M. whereas, in its conclusions of 10 October 2011, the Council welcomed the efforts of the Syrian political opposition to establish a united platform, called on the international community also to welcome these efforts, noted the creation of the Syrian National Council (SNC) as a positive step forward, and welcomed the SNC’s commitment to non-violence and democratic values; whereas Members of the European Parliament have exchanged views with representatives of the Syrian opposition in exile on several occasions in the past months; N. whereas ongoing events in Syria are accompanied by actions aimed at inciting inter-ethnic and inter-confessional conflict and increasing sectarian tensions; whereas Christian communities, which make up