lack of legal advice " (see WE 86 Page 5. ). After reviewing the 31 cases in relation to the specific points mentioned above, Lord NEILL found that " nearly all complainants felt that in their dealings with the FOS they were arguing with an advocate for EL rather than dealing with an impartial judge " (WE 86 Page 10. ). " It is a body which in many instances has displayed partiality towards the financial firm, in this case EL " (WE 83 Page 83. ). " At worst the [FOS] officials were seen as advocates for EL. In some instances without any reference back to EL, they had come up with their own arguments to block the complainant " (WE 83 Page 83. ). Lord NEILL identifies an " unlevel playing field " as the FOS " tends to allow much more latitude to EL than it does to complainants " (WE 86 Page 13. ) in terms of time limits and given " the willingness of the FOS to resolve disputed issues in favour of EL, even where the complainant relies on attested fact and EL replies with conjectures as to what would/must have happened " (WE 83 Page 81. and WE 86 Page 13. ). He also suggests that FOS has done little to avoid an 'inequality of arms' between complainant and firm by ensuring that the former suffers no disadvantage from presenting a case without the advice of lawyers, accountants and actuaries (see WE 83 Page 81. ). As regards the principles of natural justice, Lord NEILL found that they had been breached in " instances where the FOS took account of documents which a particular complainant had not seen and could not address " (WE 83 Page 72. ). Moreover, Lord NEILL states that " many of the cases examined have involved unacceptable delay on the part of the FOS in reaching a final decision, with some going on for more than five years " (WE 86 Page 11. ) and that " the delays in processing complaints had a corrosive effect " as " complainants lost confidence in the system and began to feel that the FOS was stalling " (WE 83 Page 83. ). Finally, he denounces " attitudes on the part of FOS officials which the complainants felt were unhelpful, unnecessarily argumentative or even aggressive " as well as " the general inefficiency of the FOS and the lack of concern with the fact of individual cases " (see WE 83 Pages 83 and 84. ). Even some complainants whose cases were upheld seem to have been dissatisfied, due to the 'obscurity of financial awards'. According to Lord NEILL, " many complainants described the difficulty - if not the impossibility - of understanding how awards are calculated ". For instance in the Mrs E lead case, a complex and sophisticated system was " designed by accountant Deloittes on the instructions of EL " to calculate compensation. " Many complainants cannot rework the figures because the necessary raw data has been withheld from them