Answer given by Mr Hahn on behalf of the Commission (3 August 2011) The conclusions of the Fifth Cohesion Report COM(2010)642final, http://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/sources/docoffic/official/reports/cohesion5/index_en.cfm dedicate a specific section to the dimension of territorial cohesion introduced by the Lisbon Treaty. The report underlines that territorial cohesion also means addressing urban-rural linkages in terms of access to affordable and quality infrastructure and services. It will therefore be necessary to integrate this third dimension of cohesion into future programmes, with particular emphasis on the role of cities, functional geographies, areas facing specific geographical or demographic problems and macro-regional strategies. Rural areas could be part of different functional areas definition. Many remote rural areas have characteristics close to those of areas facing specific geographical problems. As regards the potential to exploit synergies between the European Regional Development Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the Commission intends to develop a common strategic framework for the next programming period which will define strategic priorities for all EU funds under shared management. This would provide a more coherent legal basis for coordination of support for various types of territories — urban, rural, coastal, etc. It would thus enhance complementarity between programmes and create synergies. A multi-level effort (including the Commission, the Member States, the regions and the local authorities) is necessary to obtain a better policy integration and coordination of the funds. The Commission's proposals for the regulations for the 2014-20 will be presented after the summer. At the request of the European Parliament, the Directorate-General for Regional Policy has started to implement a preparatory action on rural-urban partnership for sustainable development. Its aim is to analyse territorial partnership practices for towns/cities and rural areas, to achieve better cooperation between different actors in developing and implementing common urban-rural initiatives based on the integrated approach and to promote territorial multilevel governance. The Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development is contributing to this action with examples from peri-urban territories funded through the Leader axis. Results of this preparatory action will be widely disseminated among Member States and may be helpful in preparing the projects fostering rural-urban linkages using support from EU funds.