the European political process. The ECB President and another Executive Board member regularly participate in the meetings of the Eurogroup and ECOFIN Council and, in return, the President of the ECOFIN Council and a member of the European Commission are entitled to attend the meetings of the Governing Council of the ECB. The ECB’s participation in the Macro-economic Dialogue should also be mentioned in this context. 15. If the European Parliament were to recommend rejection of your nomination, would you still wish to pursue that nomination? First, let me clarify that I have not pursued my nomination. According to the Treaty, the final decision is to be taken by the Heads of State or Government who would have to assess the Parliament’s opinion addressed to them. As I noted in my answer to question 11, an unfavourable opinion of the European Parliament on my nomination by the EU Council would have a serious impact on the decision to be taken by the Heads of State or Government. I would also examine carefully the arguments put forward against my nomination and I would act with the deepest respect for the opinion of the institution that represents the political will of the citizens of the Union. Annex 3:Opening statement of the candidate Introductory Statement by Mr. Lucas Papademos candidate for Vice-President of the ECB Brussels, 22 April 2002 It is a great pleasure for me to appear before your Committee for this hearing which is part of the process of my nomination to the Vice-Presidency of the European Central Bank. I am extremely honored to have been proposed by the EU Council for this position. In my introductory statement, I will first focus on the objectives and the role of the ECB. Then, I will address a number of issues and principles relating to the conduct of monetary policy, including its communication and accountability. The Treaty clearly states that the primary objective of the ECB is to maintain price stability in the euro area. The unambiguous priority given by the Treaty to this objective partly reflects the inflation experience during the previous decades and the economic and social benefits that price stability entails. These benefits are appreciated by the European public, which at times has suffered the consequences of inflation, including the costs of restoring stability lost as a result of misguided policies. The assignment of price stability as the primary objective of the ECB also relates to the fundamental role of monetary factors in determining the price level in the long run. Monetary policy conducted by an independent central bank can effectively provide a nominal anchor to pin down the price level. Price stability is not, of course, the only important economic policy objective. Attaining sustainable and non-inflationary growth and a high level of employment are other important goals. The ECB is required to support the general economic policies in the Community with a view to contributing to the achievement of these goals, provided that price stability is not jeopardized. In my view, the maintenance of price stability and the attainment of sustainable