agreements or contracts concluded pursuant to this Regulation shall provide for the Commission and the Court of Auditors to conduct on-the-spot checks in accordance with the usual procedures laid down by the Commission under the rules in force, in particular those of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. 3. The necessary measures shall be taken to emphasise the Community character of the aid provided pursuant to this Regulation. Article 9 1. Participation in invitations to tender and the award of procurement contracts shall be open on equal terms to all natural and legal persons of the Member States, assimilated countries, and in all developing countries. It shall be open to other third countries on the condition of reciprocity. It may be extended, under exceptional and duly justified circumstances, to other third countries. 2. Supplies shall originate in the Member States, the beneficiary country or other developing countries. In the cases mentioned in Article 9(1), supplies may originate in other third countries. Article 10 1. In order to secure the objectives of consistency and complementarity referred to in the Treaty and to ensure maximum effectiveness of these operations as a whole, the Commission may take all necessary coordination measures, including in particular: a) the establishment of a system for the systematic exchange and analysis of information on the operations financed and those which the Community and the Member States propose to finance; b) the on-the-spot coordination of the implementation of operations through regular meetings and exchanges of information between the representatives of the Commission and the Member States in the recipient country, local authorities and other decentralised bodies. 2. The Commission should raise the question of gender as a standing item on the agenda during meetings between representatives of the Commission, Member States and partner countries in order to increase awareness of gender issues in emerging areas of development cooperation. 3. The Commission shall draw on the experiences of Members States, other donors and partner countries in the field of gender mainstreaming and women's empowerment. 4 . The Commission, in liaison with the Member States, may take any initiative necessary for ensuring proper coordination with the other donors concerned, in particular those forming part of the United Nations system. Chapter III Financial provisions and relevant decision-making procedures Article 11 1. The financial framework for the implementation of this Regulation for the period 2004 to 2006 is hereby set at EUR 11 million . 2. The annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limits of the financial perspective. Article 12 1. The Commission shall be responsible for drafting strategic programming guidelines, defining the Community's cooperation in terms of measurable objectives, priorities, deadlines for specific areas of action, assumptions and expected outcomes. Programming shall be multi-annual and indicative. 2. An annual exchange of views shall take place once a year on the basis of a presentation by the representative of the Commission of the general guidelines for the operations to be carried out, in the framework of a joint meeting of the Committees referred to