they need us to understand how much they depend on the commodity. Countries need the foreign exchange earnings and the stability which sugar brings to their democracies . No one, she stated, disagrees about the need for reform, but the current proposals are simply unfair. EU beet farmers have been promised a generous compensation package –1.5 billion in compensation and a further 4.2 billion for restructuring. The ACP at the moment only has ” virtual ” money. Mrs Kinnock hoped that agriculture ministers meeting this week will listen to the concerns expressed here in Edinburgh. Sharon HAY WEBSTER ( MEP, Jamaica) Co-President for the ACP side, urged " all our EP partners to do everything in their power to facilitate the adoption of the Financial Perspectives and provide therein the resources for the ACP action plan for sugar and for the commitments of the EU derived from its own initiatives for the revision of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement. We also call for early agreement for adequate resources for the 10th EDF ." HRH the DUKE of GLOUCESTER said in his address to the opening ceremony: "Improvements in transport make the world a smaller place and we all become more reliant on each other; to share each others problems and to seek the solutions to those problems. We also share the desire to make world trade more equitable and less restricted... This year has revealed dramatically how vulnerable we all are to natural disasters, the tsunami, the Kashmiri earthquake, and the Hurricanes in the Caribbean have all caught us by surprise and highlighted an unsatisfactory level of preparation. I hope this assembly will achieve a great deal, if not in immediate agreement then at least greater understanding, which may have effect in Hong Kong with the World Trade Organisation meeting or further events in the future." HRH the DUKE of GLOUCESTER formally opened the 10th Joint Parliamentary Assembly. On Wednesday 23 November, the JPA will also hear from the First Minister of Scotland, Jack McCONNELL. The meeting is held at Edinburgh International Conference Centre. The JPA will deal with major issues related to the ACP-EU partnership and will adopt the following reports: - The role of National Parliaments in implementing the Cotonou Partnership Agreement. - Agricultural and mining commodities. - The causes and consequences of natural disasters. Beyond the reports, the JPA will discuss urgent topics such as the situation in West Africa and the Registration, Evaluation and the Authorisation of Chemical substances (REACH). They will also adopt resolutions on all these subjects. More: More information on the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly (link) http://www.europarl.eu.int/intcoop/acp/10_01/default_en.htm NB The session will close on Thursday 24 November at 1pm approx. after the votes on the resolutions and will be followed immediately by a press conference with the two Co-Presidents, Glenys Kinnock and Sharon Hay Webster. Social Affairs and the Environment Causes and consequences of natural disasters Report by Barry FAURE (MP, Seychelles) and Fiona HALL (ALDE, UK) on causes and consequences of natural disasters Debate : 21.11.2005 Fiona HALL (ALDE, UK) co-rapporteur quoted