laws of Member States: (1) how is ownership or title established and what access to necessary information do Member States offer claimants? (2) when must a demand be made for return of property, and what should be the relevant statute of limitations? (3) what rights, if any, do ‘good faith’ purchasers have in looted cultural goods? (4) what claims run against professional sellers such as art dealers who have bought or sold looted cultural goods? and (5) if a looted cultural good is recovered, may there be limitations on an owner’s ability to export it? The different answers to these questions in the Member States cloud title and impede the movement of cultural goods in the Internal Market. Assessment of Possible EP Initiatives The current legal system relating to looted cultural goods is neither consistent nor predictable; it does not encourage the voluntary or efficient settlement of claims, protect the rights of victims seeking recovery of looted property or accomplish the stated goals of international law established by the nations of the world after World War II. In order fully to appraise the issues raised by looted cultural goods, the European Parliament held a hearing in March 2003 with a view both to raise public awareness and to identify potential EU solutions to the problems posed. To pave the way to a comprehensive European framework for the fair resolution of disputes relating to the ownership of looted cultural goods, such a hearing: - evaluated efforts to implement the principles set forth at the Washington Conference, in Council of Europe Resolution 1205, and at the Vilnius Forum. - reviewed Member States’ existing programmes for identifying and returning looted cultural goods. - assessed existing or planned databases relating to looted cultural goods and the feasibility of expanding public databases to allow more comprehensive asset searches tied to specific works and/or claims. - evaluated EU laws and regulations relating to access to archives on (a) cultural goods, (b) World War II-era expropriation, asset sales, or looting, (c) post-war lists of items looted, items returned to ‘countries of origin’, claims filed, and claims settled, (d) museum and dealer records regarding objects bought or sold in Europe between 1933 and 1945. A key question was the relationship between respect for individual privacy and ensuring that the ability of claimants to take action is not impeded. - established uniform standards for the identification and handling of looted cultural goods, including looted cultural goods which raises provenance questions. - evaluated the current scope of EU regulation and inter-European treaties or agreements regarding import/export and customs regulation that might relate to establishing uniform standards for the identification and treatment of looted cultural goods. - reviewed existing efforts to establish parallel cooperation with the authorities in Russia, the Central and East European Countries, and other jurisdictions linked to the identification and recovery of looted cultural goods. - appraised the use and development of the Lugano Convention and current practice relating to use of that Convention to enforce judgments as to movable property (or cultural objects). - discussed how the European Convention