of comparable and compatible data. Amendment 16 Recital 21 a (new) (21a) The Feira European Council in June 2000 endorsed the "e-Europe 2002 Action Plan on an Information Society for All", which under Health Online urges Member States to develop an infrastructure of user-friendly, validated and interoperable systems for health education, disease prevention and medical care. It is essential that the new information technology is harnessed to empower European citizens to play an active role in managing their health and to improve overall quality of health care while at the same time ensuring equity in health information. Amendment 17 Recital 22 (22) In the execution of the programme, full use should be made of the relevant results generated from the Community research programmes, which support research in areas covered by the programme. (22) In the execution of the programme, full use should be made of the relevant results generated from the Community research programmes, which support research in areas covered by the programme. All relevant statistics should be analysed and broken down by gender. Amendment 18 Recital 22 a (new) (22a) The experience acquired in various public health domains and from different charters applicable in this area should be taken into account. Amendment 19 Recital 28 (28) This decision lays down, for the entire duration of the programme, a financial framework constituting the prime reference, within the meaning of point 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure, for the budgetary authority during the annual budgetary procedure. (28) This decision lays down, for the entire duration of the programme, a financial framework constituting the prime reference, within the meaning of point 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure for the budgetary authority during the annual budgetary procedure. The financial framework should correspond to the needs and objectives of the programme. Amendment 20 Recital 30 (30) It is essential that there should be flexibility to allow redeployment of resources and adaptation of activities while respecting the need for transparency as well as the criteria for selecting and ordering priorities according to magnitude of risk or potential of effect, the outcome of evaluation, public concerns, availability of interventions or potential for their development, subsidiarity, added value and impact on other sectors. (30) It is essential that there should be flexibility to allow redeployment of resources and adaptation of activities while respecting the need for transparency as well as the criteria for selecting and ordering priorities according to magnitude of risk or potential of effect, the outcome of evaluation, public concerns, availability of interventions or potential for their development, subsidiarity, added value and impact on other sectors. There is a need, however, to maintain a balance between the three objectives of the programme, allocating budget resources fairly between them. Amendment 21 Recital 30 a (new) (30a) Practical measures are essential in order to attain the objectives