social services; 2. Recalls the recommendation of the European Council of 15-16 December 2005 that at least 90% of global external assistance under the 2007-2013 Financial Framework should be eligible for classification as Official Development Assistance under the current definition established by the OECD Development Assistance Committee; 3. Insists that the simplification of the budget structure in Heading 4 for the period 2007-2013 must not result in any loss of transparency or in the European Parliament's having less of a say in the use of development policy resources, and that there must remain at least the same level of visibility of geographic and thematic appropriations as in the 2006 budget; calls specifically for objectives to be met and for the maintenance of separate budget lines and thematic sectors which are key to the MDGs; 4. Welcomes the Commission's acceptance of the benchmarks for development spending of 35% for social infrastructure, agreed with Parliament in 2001, and the internationally agreed 20% for basic social services; calls for continuing inter-institutional dialogue on greater promotion of pro-poor development spending; 5. Calls for special attention to be given to facilitating small and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries, as these are central to economic development and employment and contribute to "aid for trade" initiatives; further calls for a minimum of 10% of "Aid for Trade" to be dedicated to "Aid for Fair Trade"; 6. Stresses the need to provide for adequate sums for the 18 ACP countries affected by the reform of the common organisation of the market (COM) in sugar, which at the very least means that there must be no reduction in the sums provided for in the Commission's preliminary draft budget, but above all also that account must be taken of the real needs of the countries concerned as set out in the action plans submitted by them to the Commission in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 266/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2006 establishing accompanying measures for Sugar Protocol countries affected by the reform of the EU sugar regime OJ L 50, 21.2.2006, p. 1. ; 7. Calls for greater support to be given to management of water, and in particular cooperation between developing countries with shared waters that run across borders, in order to promote economic development and help prevent conflict resulting from disputes over water; 8. Stresses the importance of giving the fullest attention within EU development cooperation to climate change mitigation and adaptation, and underlines the need for investments in sustainable energy - both energy efficiency and renewables - as well as adaptation measures in high-risk regions for weather-related disasters; 9. Emphasises that the protection and the regeneration of life supporting systems, such as healthy soils, forests and marine resources, and the sound management of fresh-water resources, are an indispensable component of poverty reduction; insists, therefore, that a high priority be given to these areas within the budget of the European Union. PROCEDURE Title Draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2007 - Section III - Commission Procedure number 2006/2018(BUD)