of a proposal from the Commission, on the maximum number of days at sea available for Community fishing vessels deploying beam trawl gear of mesh size equal to or greater than 80 mm and subject to the system of fishing effort limitation referred to in paragraph 1. 2. For each year of the three-year period , the Council shall decide by a qualified majority, on the basis of a proposal from the Commission, on the maximum number of days at sea (calculated in kilowatt-days) available for Community fishing vessels fishing for plaice or sole or catching them as by-catch and subject to the system of fishing effort limitation referred to in paragraph 1. Amendment 13 Article 6, paragraph 3 3. The annual adjustment of the maximum number of days referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be in the same proportion as the annual adjustment in fishing mortality rate provided for in accordance with Article 5(1). 3. The maximum number of days referred to in paragraph 2 shall be related to the reductions in the fishing mortality rate provided for by the multiannual TACs decided on by the Council. Amendment 14 Article 6, paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. In adopting the management plan, the Council shall decide that Community fishing vessels which are used for demersal fishing for flatfish should no longer be subject to the days-at-sea rules provided for by the recovery plan for cod. Amendment 15 Article 8, paragraph 1 1. By way of derogation from Article 5(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2807/83, the permitted margin of tolerance, in estimation of quantities in kilograms live weight retained on board of Community fishing vessels that have been present in the North Sea shall be 8% of the figure entered in the logbook. In the event that no conversion factor is laid down in Community legislation, the conversion factor adopted by the Member State whose flag the vessel is flying shall apply. 1. By way of derogation from Article 5 (2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2807/83, the permitted margin of tolerance, in estimation of quantities in kilograms live weight retained on board of Community fishing vessels that have been present in the North Sea shall be 10% of the figure entered in the logbook. In the event that no conversion factor is laid down in Community legislation, the conversion factor adopted by the Member State whose flag the vessel is flying shall apply. Amendments 16 and 17 Article 9 The competent authorities of a Member State shall ensure in respect of landings made by any Community fishing vessel that has been present in the North Sea that: The competent authorities of a Member State shall ensure that any quantity of plaice exceeding 200 kg and any quantity of sole exceeding 100 kg which has been caught in the North Sea is weighed before its first sale in accordance with current Community rules. (a) all quantities of plaice and sole landed by any Community fishing vessel carrying on board any quantity of plaice exceeding 500 kg or of sole exceeding 300