services legislation. Furthermore, as investments in pension products are to play an increasingly important role in the European economy in view of demographic imbalance and ageing populations, the committee emphasises the need to foster consumer confidence in pension products by ensuring for them the highest standards of information, security and investor protection throughout the internal market. 9. The committee recognises the need for increased supervisory co-operation, and calls upon the Commission to remedy the regulatory processes which undermine the potential to home/host supervision, giving particular consideration to the Solvency II project. B. RECOMMENDATIONS, PART IV - REMEDIES 10. In view of the UK Government's failure to comply with the requirements of the Third Life Directive and given the absence either of accessible legal redress through the courts or of effective alternative means of redress, the committee firmly believes that the UK Government is under an obligation to assume responsibility. The committee therefore strongly recommends that the UK Government devise and implement an appropriate scheme with a view to compensating Equitable Life policyholders within the UK, Ireland, Germany and elsewhere. 11. The committee urges the UK Government and all affected parties to accept and implement appropriately any recommendations the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman may make with regard to Equitable Life. The committee recommends that the Irish, German and other host Member State authorities actively assist their citizens in implementing those recommendations. 12. Although the FOS can be considered as one of the more advanced out-of-court dispute settlement schemes in Europe in terms of competences and powers, the committee believes that the Equitable Life case has revealed a number of serious shortcomings in its operation. The committee therefore urges the UK Government to address these shortcomings, strengthen the FOS's capacities and ensure that it is truly independent from the FSA and from the government itself. 13. The committee urges Member States to ensure that, within their respective territories, there are proper alternative dispute resolution (ADR) schemes covering the whole area of financial services, so as to remove remaining geographical gaps within the FIN-NET system. The committee also calls on the European Parliament to support measures within the framework of financial services legislation urging Member States to ensure that there are such schemes within their territories. There appears to be no contradiction between a Community recommendation to set up such schemes on the one hand, and the fact that their use by consumers is merely optional on the other. 14. With a view to filling the gaps within the FIN-NET system and given the importance for consumers to have access to impartial out-of-court settlement schemes, the committee requests the Commission to propose measures that urge Member States to put in place statutory ADR schemes covering all financial services within their territories. The Commission's proposal could define the independence, powers and competences of ADR schemes and stimulate Member States to adopt common criteria as to the schemes’ respective jurisdictions. 15. The committee urges the Commission to pursue efforts aimed at increasing the visibility and consumers’ awareness of the FIN-NET scheme. The Commission should also consult consumers' organisations