job creation and growth, while guaranteeing social responsibility, protection of consumers' rights and social and environmental standards. They also confirm that the REACH proposals on chemicals regulation should reconcile environmental and health concerns with the need to promote the competitiveness of European industry. Parliament calls for national and European budgets, including the future Financial Perspective, to be an expression of the Lisbon goals. MEPs are disappointed at the timetable for reviewing the Sustainable Development Strateg y, and urge the Commission to submit its proposals as soon as possible. They says the threat of communicable diseases should be urgently taken into account, notably the risk of a flu pandemic. On climate change , Parliament welcomes the will to explore options for action after 2012, with consideration of a reduction of 15-30 per cent in emissions by 2020 for developed countries. It underlines that global emissions need to be reduced by half by 2050 to contain global warming to a peak of 2°C above pre-industrial levels. On the September UN summit on the Millennium Development Goals , MEPs call for an increase in the proportion of the EU budget allocated to development goals and for progress to the complete untying of development aid and for Member States to establish timetables to meet the target of 0.7 per cent of GNI for official development assistance They support reinforcing EU assistance to Africa. On external relations , Parliament again insists that the EU arms embargo on China should be maintained in current conditions. It welcomes the decision to create a task force to report on Croatia's progress in meeting the conditions for the opening of enlargement negotiations. MEPs welcome the Syrian Foreign Minister's announcement of complete withdrawal of his country's forces from Lebanon; they hope free, fair and transparent elections can be organised there. Finally, Parliament endorses the Council's call for the new leaders of Kyrgyzstan to start a dialogue to guarantee the democratic process and full respect for the rule of law and minority rights. Press enquiries: Ralph Pine (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74751 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42941 e-mail : econ-press@europarl.eu.int Environment Dangerous substances: Parliament criticises Commission's role Motion for a resolution on the restriction of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment Doc. B6-0218/2005 Vote : 12.04.2005 Vote Parliament voted strongly in favour of a resolution on restricting the use of dangerous substances, such as lead and mercury, in electrical and electronic equipment, while expressing its strong opposition to the Commission's use of the comitology procedure (a procedure which grants considerable executive power to the Commission and to expert committees of Member States) in this area. As there is already a directive on this issue, with a series of exemptions in its annex, the Commission is seeking to modify certain of these exemptions as well as add new ones - a move fiercely criticised by Parliament. In the case of dangerous substances, MEPs complain that they have not been informed in time about the Commission plans to modify the directive. Parliament considers that exemptions are being proposed where there are substitute products available. MEPs