hospital or specialised care provided in another Member State in accordance with the provision of this Directive, the costs of such care provided in another Member State should also be reimbursed by the Member State of affiliation up to the level of costs that would have been assumed had treatment which is the same or equally effective for the patient been provided in the Member State of affiliation, without exceeding the actual costs of healthcare received. However, when the conditions set out in Article 22(2) of Regulation ( EEC ) No 1408/71 are fulfilled the authorisation should be granted and the benefits provided in accordance with that Regulation. This applies in particular in instances where the authorisation is granted after an administrative or judicial review of the request and that the person concerned has received the treatment in another Member State. In that case Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 of this Directive should not apply. This is in line with the case law of the Court of Justice which has specified that patients who received a refusal of authorisation subsequently held to be unfounded, are entitled to have the cost of the treatment obtained in another Member State reimbursed in full in accordance with the provisions of the legislation in the Member State of treatment. (40) Prior authorisation should only be refused in the context of a fair and transparent procedure. The rules laid down by the Member States for submitting an authorisation request and the possible reasons for refusal should be made known in advance. Refusals should be limited to what is necessary, and should be proportionate to the objectives of setting up a prior authorisation system. (41) Patients with a life-threatening condition who are on a waiting list for medical treatment in their home country and who are in urgent need of care may not be subject to prior authorisation, as this procedure could prevent patients from having timely treatment in another Member State. ( 42 ) Procedures regarding cross-border healthcare established by the Member States should give patients guarantees of objectivity, non-discrimination and transparency, in such a way as to ensure that decisions by national authorities are made in a timely manner and with due care and regard for both those overall principles and the individual circumstances of each case. This applies also to the actual reimbursement of costs of healthcare incurred in another Member State after the patient's return. It is appropriate that patients should normally have a decision regarding the cross-border healthcare within fifteen calendar days. However, that period should be shorter where warranted by the urgency of the treatment in question. In any event, recognition procedures and rules on the provision of services as provided for by Directive 2005/36/EC should not be affected by these general rules. ( 43 ) Appropriate information on all essential aspects of cross-border healthcare is necessary in order to enable patients to exercise their rights to cross-border healthcare in practice. For cross-border healthcare the most efficient mechanism for providing such information is to establish central contact points within each Member