Home Affairs (Amendment 3), adopted as an amendment to Recital 1. . The 1993 Directive Consequent on Maastricht, the 1993 legislation sought to lay down detailed arrangements in order to ‘abolish the nationality requirement which currently has to be satisfied in most Member States in order to exercise those rights’ Fourth recital of Council Directive 93/109/EC. . Directive 93/109/EC, duly respecting the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, stopped way short of harmonising national electoral systems. However, while trying to respect the freedom of the citizen to choose where to exercise his or her electoral rights, it chose to interpret the Treaty narrowly by conflating the two specific rights, the right to vote and the right to stand as a candidate. As far as the right to be on the electoral roll is concerned, it is the case that very many people can be registered to vote in more than one place at different residencies both within their own and other member states. The legislation sought to ensure that, despite multiple registrations, the citizen actually voted only once. It applied the same approach to candidature . In 1993 a complicated system of information exchange was put in place whereby (i) the citizen wishing to enrol has to provide, beyond the normal identity and residency checks, a formal declaration of his or her intention to vote or to stand only once, and, if wishing to be a candidate, an official attestation from a competent authority of the home state that he or she is not disqualified from standing; (ii) the authorities in the member state of residence have to check whether the individual is banned from exercising his or her electoral rights in their home member state and, in any case, they have to inform the home member state of the identity of its nationals registered to vote and stand in their place of residence; and (iii) the authorities of the home state have to ensure that the same individuals do not vote or stand at home. Some problems Practical experience suggests that the administrative procedures for the necessary information exchange are too cumbersome either to work efficiently or to be effective in time. In particular, the need to provide a formal attestation of eligibility to stand as a candidate proves to be an insurmountable obstacle in the case of most member states. It has become clear that electoral law and its national and/or decentralised local supervision remain hugely diverse across the EU-27, and, equally, that approximation of these national practices championed by the EU would be very time-consuming, costly and intrusive. Specific problems relate to the identification of the competent authority, the formatting of data, lack of deadlines, and transliteration. As we know, turnout in the European Parliamentary elections has fallen steadily from 63% in 1979 to below 46% in 2004. Although accurate data is hard to come by, it appears that very few EU citizens have been registering to vote outside their home state. In 2004 only 57 non-nationals stood as candidates Out of a total of 8974 candidates. . Nevertheless, the