Answer given by Ms Hedegaard on behalf of the Commission (11 August 2011) The Commission carried out an impact assessment http://ec.europa.eu/clima/documentation/ets/docs/com_2008_16_ia_en.pdf to evaluate the effects of the amended EU Emission Trading System (ETS) Directive at the time of its revision in 2008, including on the exposure of sectors to a risk of carbon leakage. In the revision of the ETS Directive http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CONSLEG:2003L0087:20090625:EN:PDF , the Parliament and Council decided to address the risk of carbon leakage for industry covered by the ETS by providing free allowances. All installations will thus continue to receive free allowances in the third phase of ETS (2013‑20), based on benchmarks. The ETS Directive specifies that the benchmarks are determined for products rather than inputs, and that they are set at the average level of the 10 % best performers. This may represent a challenge for some installations in Europe, but applying fuel specific benchmarks would reward installations that emit more, which would be contrary to the objective of the directive. Free allocation at a level of 100 % of the benchmark for sectors deemed to be exposed to the risk of carbon leakage, and access to international credits, are measures foreseen to limit the risk of carbon leakage. The directive also foresees possible compensation by Member States to certain industries for increased electricity costs due to the ETS. The Commission is currently drafting the state aid rules which will apply in this area. The significant redistribution of auctioning rights to some Member States, which was part of the Climate and Energy package, should be recalled. These substantial additional revenues can be used to support investment in more CO 2 efficient and promising new technologies, in order to support the transition to a low- carbon economy, maintaining global competitiveness of industry and developing resource-efficient and green technologies that will be a major driver of growth.