know the regulations governing the carriage of goods transport operating licences, obligations under standard contracts for the carriage of goods, drafting of documents which form the transport contract, international transport permits, obligations under the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road, drafting of the international consignment note, crossing borders, freight forwarders, special documents accompanying goods; Licence D, D+E, D1, D1+E 2.3. objective: to know the regulations governing the carriage of passengers carriage of specific groups of passengers, safety equipment on board buses, safety belts, vehicle load; 3. Health, road and environmental safety, service, logistics All licences 3.1. objective: to make drivers aware of the risks of the road and of accidents at work types of accidents at work in the transport sector, road accident statistics, involvement of lorries/coaches, human, material and financial consequences; 3.2. objective: ability to prevent criminality and trafficking in illegal immigrants general information, implications for drivers, preventive measures, check list, legislation on transport operator liability; 3.3. objective: ability to prevent physical risks ergonomic principles; movements and postures which pose a risk, physical fitness, handling exercises, personal protection; 3.4. objective: awareness of the importance of physical and mental ability principles of healthy, balanced eating, effects of alcohol, drugs or any other substance likely to affect behaviour, symptoms, causes, effects of fatigue and stress, fundamental role of the basic work/rest cycle; 3.5. objective: ability to assess emergency situations behaviour in an emergency situation: assessment of the situation, avoiding complications of an accident, summoning assistance, assisting casualties and giving first aid, reaction in the event of fire, evacuation of occupants of a lorry/bus passengers, ensuring the safety of all passengers, reaction in the event of aggression; basic principles for the drafting of an accident report; 3.6. objective: ability to adopt behaviour to help enhance the image of the company behaviour of the driver and company image: importance for the company of the standard of service provided by the driver, the roles of the driver, people with whom the driver will be dealing, vehicle maintenance, work organisation, commercial and financial effects of a dispute; Licence C, C+E, C1, C1+E 3.7. objective: to know the economic environment of road haulage and the organisation of the market road transport in relation to other modes of transport (competition, shippers), different road transport activities (transport for hire or reward, own account, auxiliary transport activities), organisation of the main types of transport company and auxiliary transport activities, different transport specialisations (road tanker, controlled temperature, etc.), changes in the industry (diversification of services provided, rail-road, subcontracting, etc.); Licence D, D+E, D1, D1+E 3.8. objective: to know the economic environment of the carriage of passengers by road and the organisation of the market carriage of passengers by road in relation to other modes of passenger transport (rail, private car), different activities involving the carriage of passengers by road, crossing borders (international transport), organisation of the main types of companies for the carriage of passengers by road. Section 2: Compulsory initial qualification provided for in Article 3(1)(a) 2.1. Option combining both course attendance and a test