he said did not provide sufficient protection for access to essential services. For the Greens/ALE groups, Monica FRASSONI (B) argued that the purpose of the new constitution was to make the EU more effective and more democratic, but it was the balance of power between the Member States which had led to deadlock. The veto was the real cancer killing EU solidarity, she said. The Convention text was a real step forward, but she asked whether this was still the basis of discussions. The outcome of the Naples meeting was in many ways a step backward from the Convention and even, regarding the budget, from the existing system. She said it was dangerous for Parliament's representatives to accept the Naples agreements as the basis to move forward. A real mobilisation of parliamentary and public opinion was needed, otherwise the Member States might come to an agreement that was even worse than Naples. Gerard COLLINS (Munster), for the UEN group, welcomed the news of progress and the General Affairs Council, which, he said, showed the failure of the Brussels summit was now behind us. He welcomed the efforts of the Taoiseach, Mr Ahern, in his round of bilateral talks, and looked forward to the presidency's report to the March Council. It was time, he said, for a movement away from entrenched positions, and the presidency had the full support of the UEN group in its work to find an agreement - the sooner, the better he said. For the EDD group, William ABITBOL (EDD, F) drew attention to reported comments of the Polish Prime Minister that there would be no point in continuing discussions if agreement could not be reached within six months. This, he said, showed the constitutional text was leading nowhere. The only successful areas of EU activity, he argued, were those that had taken place outside the institutional framework, such as the German, French and British foreign ministers' mission to Iran. He believed some sort of agreement would be reached as the EU machine could not allow itself to fail, but it was vital that this was put to referendums. Georges BERTHU (IND, F) said the issue of qualified majority voting was at the heart of sovereignty. He quoted the President of the French Assembly, who had argued that France had at least as much interest as Spain and Poland in maintaining the Nice voting system. He also argued that the aim of reaching an agreement before the June elections could be just a ploy to avoid holding referendums if the results were favourable for the federalist parties. This would be unacceptable, he said. In the catch the eye part of the debate, Richard CORBETT (PES, Yorkshire and the Humber) stated that it was essential to reach agreement and welcomed the Irish Presidency's progress. If agreement was not be reached " in a reasonable period of time then business as usual would not be possible" . He asked the Irish Presidency to explain how it would convince the remaining Member States to accept the double majority system of voting rights