city's heritage after the arrival of Anglo settlers.", " The railroad coast route came through in 1898 and built a station here.", " Adolfo Camarillo eventually employed 700 workers growing mainly lima beans.", " Walnuts and citrus were also grown on the ranch.", " Adolfo bred Camarillo White Horses in the 1920s through the 1960s and was well known for riding them, dressed in colorful Spanish attire, in parades such as the Fiesta of Santa Barbara." ] ], [ "St. John's College, Waterford", [ "St. John's College (or St. John's Seminary) was a Catholic seminary founded in 1807 for the diocese of Waterford and Lismore, founded by Bishop John Power DD.", " It was one of many seminaries founded in Ireland following the reliefs of the penal laws by the Catholic Relief Bill.", " The college was formed out of two schools one a classical school of Rev. Thomas Flynn DD, the other an Academy of Dr. Geoffrey Keating and the new college was located in Manor Hill in Waterford, originally a mansion of the Wyse family.", " In 1868 a new building for the college was built at John's Hill, the building was designed by the architect Mr. George Goldie from the London firm of Goldie and Child, the foundation stone was laid by the Rev. Dr. O'Brien Bishop of Waterford and a former president of St. John's." ] ], [ "New Brunswick Theological Seminary", [ "New Brunswick Theological Seminary, which has its main campus in New Brunswick, New Jersey, was founded in 1784 and is the oldest independent Protestant seminary extant in the United States.", " It is one of two operated by the Reformed Church in America (RCA), a mainline Reformed Protestant denomination in Canada and the United States that follows the theological tradition and Christian practice of John Calvin.", " First established in New York City under the leadership of the Rev. John Henry Livingston, who instructed aspiring ministers in his home, the seminary established its presence in New Brunswick in 1810.", " Although a separate institution, the seminary's early development in New Brunswick was closely connected with that of Rutgers University (formerly Queen's College and Rutgers College) before establishing its own campus in the city in 1856.", " Since 1986, the seminary has offered classes at a satellite campus on the grounds of St. John's University in the Jamaica neighborhood of Queens, New York." ] ], [ "St. John, Indiana", [ "St. John is a town in Lake County, Indiana, United States.", " The town of St. John has homes in St. John Township, Hanover Township, and Center Township.", " St. John was founded in 1837.", " The population was 14,850 at the 2010 census.", " In 2009, St. John ranked 48th among CNN's top 100 places to live in the United States.", " In 2014, St. John was ranked as the 4th safest place in Indiana by Movoto Real Estate." ] ], [ "List of St. John's Seminary (California) people", [ "The list of St. John's Seminary (California) people is a compilation of lists of notable