brings the European Union closer to its citizens. However, your rapporteurs believe that the citizens' initiative should be designed as pragmatically as possible, and complicated administrative procedures should be avoided. They would also like to see that as many launched initiatives as possible will be granted admissibility. In order to do that the procedural rules must be as facilitated as possible. The rapporteurs have the following main concerns and suggestions to change the proposal: According to the rapporteurs, the minimum age for supporting an initiative should be 16 years in all Member States. Article 9 TEU states that all Union's citizens should receive equal attention. Active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity of young people are crucial for the future of Europe, and decreasing the age limit would help raise awareness towards European issues among young people. Moreover, the ECI is not a decision-making instrument but only an agenda-setting initiative, and supporting an initiative is completely different from the act of voting. Furthermore, linking the minimum age to national voting age requirements would create inequality due to differences in national requirements, which is why your rapporteurs prefer the age of 16 years to be applicable in all Member States. As for the scope of collection , your rapporteurs consider that it should be enough to collect signatures in one fourth of the Member States instead of one third, as in every Member State where signatures shall be collected, a lot of time and resources are required for administration and translation. Since the rapporteurs want to eliminate the risk of initiatives falling due to time limits or lack of financial support, they suggest that one fourth of the Member States should be sufficient since that number still covers a big part of the EU. Considering that the Commission requested in its proposal a period of two months to investigate if an initiative is admissible, the time limit of one year for collecting signatures seems to be too short. Your rapporteurs suggest that the time limit for the collection of signatures should be extended to four years in order to ensure that also initiatives without financial support have a chance to reach one million signatures . Regarding the issue of admissibility , your rapporteurs consider that there is no need to collect 300.000 signatures before the admissibility is checked by the Commission. Your rapporteurs firmly believe that 5.000 signatures should be sufficient and signatories should not need to come from more than one Member State . It takes time and resources to start collecting signatures in several Member States and before knowing if an initiative has been considered admissible, it shall not be necessary to start the process in more than one Member State. Nonetheless, in order to act as a filter for unserious initiatives, your rapporteurs reckon that the requested 5.000 signatures should be collected within 6 months ; by setting this time limit, it would be possible to eliminate initiatives that are registered but never get the specified number of signatures. Your rapporteurs also suggest that the Commission shall investigate the admissibility of