undertakings given by the Commission in its statement on Article 7(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC OJ C 171, 22.7.2006, p. 21. , and once the appropriate technical arrangements have been made, the register provided for in paragraph 2 will enable, in particular: - a clear identification of the documents covered by the same procedure and of any changes to the implementing measure at each stage of the procedure; - an indication of the stage of the procedure and the timetable; - a clear distinction between the draft measures received by the European Parliament at the same time as the committee members in accordance with the right to information and the final draft following the committee's opinion that is forwarded to the European Parliament; - a clear identification of any modification in comparison to documents already forwarded to the European Parliament. 4. When, after a transitional period starting from the entry into force of this Agreement, the European Parliament and the Commission conclude that the system is operational and satisfactory, the transmission of documents to the European Parliament shall be made by electronic notification with a link to the register provided for in paragraph 2. This decision shall be taken through an exchange of letters between the presidents of both institutions. During the transitional period, the documents will be forwarded to the European Parliament as an attachment to an electronic mail. 5. Furthermore, the Commission agrees to forward to the European Parliament, for information and at the request of the parliamentary committee responsible, specific draft measures implementing basic instruments which, although not adopted in accordance with the procedure provided for by Article 251 of the Treaty, are of particular importance to the European Parliament. These measures shall be entered in the register provided for in paragraph 2 with a notification thereof to the European Parliament. 6. In addition to the summary records referred to in paragraph 1, the European Parliament may request access to minutes of committee meetings See the judgment of the Court of First Instance of the European Communities of 19 July 1999 in Case T-188/97 Rothmans v Commission [1999] ECR II-2463. . The Commission will examine each request, on a case by case basis, under the confidentiality rules set out in Annex 1 to the Framework Agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission OJ C 117 E, 18.5.2006, p. 123. . Confidential documents 7. Confidential documents will be processed in accordance with internal administrative procedures drawn up by each institution with a view to providing all the requisite guarantees. European Parliament resolutions under Article 8 of Decision 1999/468/EC 8. Pursuant to Article 8 of Decision 1999/468/EC, the European Parliament may indicate, in a resolution setting out the grounds on which it is based, that draft measures implementing a basic instrument adopted in accordance with the procedure provided for by Article 251 of the Treaty would exceed the implementing powers provided for in that basic instrument. 9. The European Parliament is to adopt such resolutions in accordance with its Rules of Procedure; it is to have a period of