that they would have a chance to refer their complaints to us again if they remained dissatisfied after their cases had been reviewed ." It should be noted that FSA had issued a waiver dispensing Equitable Life from the need to investigate complaints about matters covered by the Review within the standard timescales set out in the FSA Handbook Rules on Dispute Resolution (DISP) 1.4. subject to the condition of a written undertaking by ELAS that " if it seeks to rely on the Limitations Act 1980 as a defence to any claim by an eligible complainant, it will not count for the purpose of the Act any period within which the eligible complainant's case has been subject to the provisions of the Review " (see WE 27 Page 5. ). However, a number of policyholders confirmed the statement made by Mr SCAWEN in (H3) that, " in many cases, the FOS ruling takes so much time that by the time a decision has been reached, the policyholder has become statute barred ". Mr WEIR (H2) stated that he was informed by the FOS in 2003 that if he were to make a claim on one of his policies before court, the FOS would immediately drop consideration of all his other claims. " Now 2 years later I have received an unsatisfactory offer, but I am timed out of any court action ". He suggests that " it is not a coincidence that the FOS took almost five years before attempting to resolve my claim " (Mr WEIR, H2). IN WE 23 Page 24. a UK law firm notes that " for the private client, the alternative of suing in the courts after FOS has found against him is almost always unavailable ... because the FOS is not quick, and ... by the time FOS issues a determination, the three year time period ... under the Limitation Act ... may have expired ." Mr BAYLISS, Managing Director of 'Annuity Direct' said in H5 that " by and large, I would say that the Ombudsman process has not worked well for people who have ended up there ... [but] ... there are exceptions ". He added that " in terms of the Ombudsman Service’s general role, it has had an enormously steep learning curve and has not tackled very well the issue of administrative costs and delays, which upset clients. It is beginning to do that ." According to Mr McELWEE (H3), delays by the FOS in the process of dealing with complaints were due to its " hefty workload " but " have become highly problematic when it comes to limitation periods ". Mr STRACHAN (H4) from the FSA says that, in many cases, complaints (to the FOS) can be dealt with swiftly. " However it is very clear that where the complaints are complex ... that goal may not be achievable and some of the Equitable complaints quite clearly fall into this category " (Mr STRACHAN, H4). In this context it was also noted by both the FOS (see WE 27)