Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (14 January 2008) 1. The March 2006 European Council invited Member States ‘to take necessary measures to rapidly and significantly reduce child poverty, giving all children equal opportunities, regardless of their social background’. In their 2006‑08 strategic reports for social inclusion and social protection, Member States made commitments to break the intergenerational transmission of poverty and exclusion. Almost all countries selected as a key priority the need to develop an integrated and long-term approach to preventing and combating poverty of children. In 2007, a task force of the Indicators Sub-Group of the Social Protection Committee has carried out a review of child poverty and exclusion of children in EU‑27 on the basis of common indicators and related statistics. However, currently no statistics to assess the impact of policies put in place after 2006 are available. These will become available in January 2008 and January 2009. The task-force has also examined existing monitoring mechanisms with a view to proposing a set of recommendations for a common framework for analysing and monitoring child poverty. Member States have responded to a questionnaire on policies to combat child poverty and promote child well-being. The replies to the questionnaire formed the basis for a dedicated in-depth examination in the Social Protection Committee of policies to fight child poverty on 3 October 2007. The independent network of experts on social inclusion has provided its assessment of the situation with respect to child poverty in the Member States of the overall policy framework in place. The results of these activities will feed into the preparation of the supporting document of the 2008 Joint Report on social inclusion and social exclusion to be adopted by the Commission in January 2008. 2. In 2005, 19 million children in the EU‑25 lived in households under the poverty threshold (set at 60 % of the national median equivalised disposable income). 19 % of children were at risk of poverty, against 16 % for the total population (see chart 1). In most EU Member States, children are at greater risk of poverty than the whole population, except in the Nordic countries, Greece, Cyprus and Slovenia. In almost half of the Member States, the risk of poverty for children is above 20 %, reaching 25 % in Romania, 27 % in Lithuania and 29 % in Poland. The standards of living of children living in households at risk of poverty vary greatly across the EU (Table 1). In 11 of the 15 ‘old’ Member States, a household with 2 adults and 2 children lives on more than EUR 1 500 per month. Families of the same size have to cope with less than EUR 500 per month in 9 of the 12 ‘new’ Member States. The variation in the national thresholds expressed in purchasing power parity is approximately one to six between the first and last three Member States. 3. In the context of the Open Method of Coordination in the field of social protection and social inclusion, all Member States have agreed to focus