WRITTEN QUESTION E-4622/06 by Frieda Brepoels (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (26 October 2006) Subject: Concentrations of heavy metals in Chinese-made glass granules used in road markings Over the last two years substantial amounts of contaminated glass granules used in road markings have been imported into and sold in the EU. The granules in question, which are manufactured in China and then imported into the EU, contain high concentrations of heavy metals, in particular lead, arsenic and antimony. In that connection, the presence of a toxic and carcinogenic substance, arsenic trioxide (As2O3), is particularly alarming. Samples taken from granules imported from China contain much higher concentrations of heavy metals than are allowed in glass manufactured in the EU, in some cases far in excess of the limit of 1000 ppm laid down in Community law. Chinese manufacturers of glass granules could perfectly well keep heavy metals out of the glass they produce. However, that would give rise to additional costs, the very same additional costs which EU manufacturers are required to meet. It would appear, therefore, that Chinese manufacturers are disposing of contaminated glass waste by exporting it to the EU. The Chinese glass granules thus pose a threat to the environment, to users and to the reputation of the European glass industry. There are no specific legal provisions which directly ban the sale of contaminated glass granules for use in road markings. Some Member States stipulate in their procurement procedures that only the most environmentally-friendly products may be used, and others lay down for glass granules maximum levels of arsenic well below the limits imposed in the relevant EU directives. Does the Commission take the view that, pending the introduction of new European specifications laying down maximum levels for heavy metals, action should be taken on the basis of national provisions to combat the environmental dangers inherent in the use of contaminated glass granules? Does the Commission take the view that the amounts of heavy metals in glass granules used on European roads must be consistent with the limits laid down in the relevant EU directives? What steps will the Commission take in order to ensure that Member States deal appropriately with the current situation and to guarantee a level playing field in the EU?