Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (16 June 2011) According to the latest available statistics, the situation concerning the management of municipal waste in Greece in 2009 is as follows: 82 % landfilling, 17 % recycling, and 2 % composting. This situation contrasts with the 42 % average of municipal waste recycled or composted in the EU. Pursuant to the EU waste policy, if waste cannot be prevented or re-used, as many materials as practicable should be recovered from waste, preferably by recycling. To this end, the EU Waste Framework Directive Directive 2008/98 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on waste and repealing certain directives, OJ L 312, 22.11.2008. (WFD) aims to enhance the use of waste as a resource by recycling and other recovery operations. The directive lays down a five-step hierarchy of waste treatment operations. This places waste prevention at the top followed by — in descending order — preparation for re-use, recycling, other recovery (including energy recovery) and safe disposal. It has to be noted, however, that this hierarchy does not constitute an absolute rule but applies as a priority order. Member States are required to take measures to encourage the options that deliver the best overall environmental outcome. From the statistics shown above it is clear that there are still untapped recycling potentials in Greece. If the WFD is correctly implemented by Greece this would certainly allow for more recovery and less disposal of waste in the country. With this in mind, the Commission is proactively assisting Member States, including Greece, in properly implementing the provisions laid down in the WFD by, notably, organising awareness-raising events; preparing guidance documents; assisting in the legal interpretation of key provisions of the legislation; fostering the exchange of best practice among Member States; and more importantly, providing possibilities for EU co-financing. As regards the latter, the Commission has introduced special terms in the co-financing decisions for landfill projects, with a view to ensuring that the provisions of the Landfill Directive Directive 1999/31/EC on the landfill of waste, OJ L 182 16.7.1999. designed to foster recovering and recycling through the reduction of biodegradable waste going to landfills and the treatment of waste prior to landfilling will be satisfactorily implemented. It is important to stress that for the next programming period, the Commission will continue its efforts to ensure that the projects to be co-financed are consistent with the objectives and requirements defined in the waste legislation, including the WFD e.g. recycling targets. Finally, the Commission is closely monitoring the steps and achievements of all Member States to implement the WFD, including its waste hierarchy, with a view to enable the EU as a whole to move towards a recycling society.