the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, should be based on an ongoing dialogue between national and European law makers, regulatory authorities, industries, associations, consumers and civil society actors. Justification No method of protecting minors is totally effective on its own. It is therefore essential to coordinate all protective measures, including parental control, criminal penalties, and the involvement and accountability of economic operators. Educators cannot rely solely on technology, businesses cannot escape their responsibilities under the pretext that parental control is needed to be exercised and governments have a duty to introduce rules that will protect the weakest members of society. Amendment 13 Recital 5 b (new) (5b) Given that the arrival of terrestrial digital television will make parental monitoring possible, which is essential if children are to be prevented from gaining access to televised content against their parents' wishes, the European Union should guide the process of transition to terrestrial digital television under the aim of shortening the deadline for 'analogue blackout' as much as possible. Justification One of the many benefits terrestrial digital television will bring is the possibility for parents to monitor the programmes their children watch. We should avoid the uneven development of this technology across the EU, as this could widen the existing digital gap among the 25 Member States. Amendment 14 Recital 6 (6) In the public consultation concerning Directive 97/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 1997 amending Council Directive 89/552/EEC on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities, it was suggested that media literacy be included among the subjects covered by Recommendation 98/560/EC. (6) In the public consultation concerning Directive 97/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 1997 amending Council Directive 89/552/EEC on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities (‘Television without Frontiers’ Directive) , it was suggested that the need to adopt educational measures in relation to the media be included among the subjects covered by Recommendation 98/560/EC. Justification It is appropriate to indicate that this directive is better known under this name. It is also vital to adopt educational measures that will guarantee the correct, rational and effective use of the media. Amendment 15 Recital 7 (7) The Commission encourages cooperation and the sharing of experience and good practices between (self)regulatory bodies, which deal with the rating or classification of audiovisual content, with a view to enable all viewers , but especially parents and teachers, to assess the content of programmes . (7) The Commission encourages cooperation and the sharing of experience and good practices between self- and co-regulatory bodies, which deal with the rating or classification of audiovisual content, by whatever means it is delivered, with a view to enabling all users , but especially parents , teachers and trainers , to report illegal content and assess the content of audiovisual and on-line information services, as well as any