Central Banks of the Eurosystem are appointed by the Member States and may, therefore, erroneously be perceived as the representatives of their respective countries in the Governing Council. Therefore, Governing Council Members need to be able to express their views without risking possible interference from national authorities or interest groups. The publication of detailed minutes would not be conducive to this objective. Second, the provisions of Art. 10.4 of the ESCB Statute stipulate that the proceedings of the meetings of the Governing Council shall be confidential, while the Governing Council may decide to make the outcome of its deliberations public. The decision not to publish Governing Council minutes but to release, immediately after Governing Council meetings, comprehensive press statements that provide a detailed account of the reasoning underpinning the ECB’s monetary policy decisions, is fully in keeping with these Treaty provisions. Third, the above-mentioned press statements present, in essence, the information that would normally be covered in summary minutes. However, in contrast to formal minutes which need to be approved and can thus only be published with some delay, the ECB’s press statements are immediately available and thus provide timely explanations about the ECB’s thinking. Given that the publication of formal minutes necessarily occurs with some delay, such publication may occur at a time when the economic and monetary environment may no longer correspond to the environment prevailing at the time when the policy decision to which the minutes refer was taken. In such cases the publication of the minutes would not provide correct guidance to markets and the general public and would confuse, rather than clarify, the understanding of monetary policy decisions. That said, as a Member of the Executive Board, I would strive to ensure that the high standards of accountability and transparency remained an essential part of the ECB’s policy framework. 18. What conclusions do you draw from the comparison between the transparency policies followed by the Federal Reserve Bank and by the ECB? What do you think about the publication by the Fed or the Bank of England of the minutes of their meetings? Do you think this policy could be applied by the ECB? I attach a great deal of importance to transparency in monetary policy-making. I view it as a counterpart of the high degree of independence that modern central banks have – and rightly so- gained over the last, say, 15 years in many countries. In addition, transparency may increase the effectiveness of monetary policy, as it can provide guidance to the markets in forming expectations about the future conduct of monetary policy. I believe that the ECB has always tried to present policy decisions to the public in an honest and transparent manner that indeed accurately reflects the way these decisions are actually taken by the Governing Council. Because policy-makers face a complex and uncertain world, the honest approach to communication can often seem complicated. However, it is only by being honest about the difficulties that policy-makers face that the central bank can truthfully explain policy decisions and thereby achieve genuine transparency. Having said