WRITTEN QUESTION E-4493/09 by Michail Tremopoulos (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (25 September 2009) Subject: Degradation of Lake Stymfalia (GR2530002) Lake Stymfalia in the prefecture of Corinth, Greece, is considered to be a rare wetland and is a sanctuary for 133 species of protected and endangered birds threatened with extinction. 1 309 hectares of the area are incorporated in the special protection zone of Lake Stymfalia (GR2530002). According to a recent August 2009. letter sent by the Mayor of the Municipality of Stymfalia, Mr K. Leggas, to the Greek Government and other institutions, in recent years, the lake has resembled a swamp and has suffered significant silting. Whereas, approximately one hundred years ago, its maximum depth was close to ten metres, it is now no more than two metres. The mayor stresses that the free water surface is diminishing very rapidly and that the site is consequently losing the feel of being a lake, as it has already begun to transform into marshland. He also notes that Lake Stymfalia is the most important factor in maintaining groundwater levels in the mountains and the plain of the region. The mayor concludes by calling on all the responsible bodies to act to save the lake. Moreover, the Hellenic Ornithological Society refers on its website to agricultural intensification and unsustainable exploitation as high threats to this particular area of the Natura 2000 network. 1. Has the Commission received any complaint from any quarter about the status of this particular area and, if so, has it been in contact with the Greek Government on the subject of this ecological disaster? 2. Has it received any data concerning the quantity and quality of the waters in the lake, in accordance with the Water Framework Directive No 2000/60/EC OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1. or any other provision of Community law? 3. Has it received any request from the Greek Government and/or approved any funding for the rehabilitation of the lake? If so, under which financial programme and what is the Commission's assessment of the programme's implementation? 4. In addition, what measures in general might and/or will it take to ensure that Community law is implemented and the lake is saved?