Answer given by Mr Almunia on behalf of the Commission (26 October 2006) The Commission welcomes the approval of the first phase reform of quotas at the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The initial round of quota increases that has been decided in Singapore will address the legitimate claims of the most underrepresented countries in the IMF. In Singapore, there has also been an agreement to deal in a second phase with issues, such as an increase in basic votes that will enhance the representation of low-income countries in the Fund, and an overall revision of the quota formula. The comprehensive reform that has now been initiated will enhance the legitimacy, credibility, and governance of the IMF. The launch of such comprehensive reforms would not have been possible without the support of the Member States which adopted a common position on this matter. The reform has started with initial quota increases for China, Korea, Mexico and Turkey. Other elements of IMF reform should be completed within the next two years. They comprise: a revision of the quota formula, making them simpler and more transparent and allocating a larger weight to the gross domestic product (GDP); further ad-hoc quota increases on the basis of the new formula, and a commitment to regular quota adjustments to ensure that quota shares evolve in line with economic developments; an increase in basic votes in the order of ‘at least’ a doubling to improve representation of low-income countries in the Fund; a mechanism for preventing future erosion of voting shares of low-income countries; additional human and technical resources for the African chairs at the IMF Board and a review of the selection procedure of the Managing Director. Those measures that aim at improving voice and participation for low-income countries are likely to find a broad majority in the IMF membership. Member States support the objective. Over the next months, discussion should focus on the reform of the quota formula. An agreement on a new formula is a key element of the reform package, since it would provide the basis for the subsequent rebalancing of shares. Member States currently have differing views as regards the reform of the quota formula, but are actively working together and with the Commission to develop a common position. The coordination of euro area/Member States in the IMF has improved over the last few years. There is however scope for significant further improvement. In the short run, notably to achieve more frequently EU common positions, to enhance the scope and the impact of these common positions, and to ensure a better attendance of the key euro area/EU policy‑makers at international meetings. A unified or single euro area/EU representation would allow Europe to play a role in the IMF commensurate to its economic weight and is a long term objective of the Commission, which is also actively being discussed with the Member States.