Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (13 January 2010) On 8 October 2009, the Commission has sent reasoned opinions to 21 Member States for failure of implementation of the first railway package. Since the infringement procedures were opened in June 2008, significant progress was made by Member States concerned. This is not only shown by a reduction of the number of Member States to which reasoned opinions were sent, in relation to the ones which received letters of formal notice. Also the number of infringements was greatly reduced. For example, a number of Member States have set up regulatory bodies or brought charging rules in line with the provisions of the directives. Still the application in Member States showed the need to clarify the current legislation in order to ensure a proper implementation. Thus, the Commission intends to review the first railway package with a view to recast the rail access legislation into one coherent piece of legislation. This recast will clarify existing market access rules and to some extent also introduce additional rules for issues that are important for non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. This should allow a full and correct implementation of the principles of the existing legislation. The Commission agrees that the opening of the markets to competition is an important instrument for stimulating rail freight transport. Statistical data demonstrates clearly that in those countries in which the rail freight market was opened at an earlier stage and to a greater extent, not only was it possible to stop the decline of this market segment, but in some cases it was even possible to increase transported volumes. On the other hand, Member States in which the opening took place later or where obstacles to opening are still present showed a much slower development or even a constant decline. A study is undergone to examine the possibily of a further opening up of the rail passenger market. On the basis of its conclusion, the Commission will assess the opportunity to submit a legislative proposal.