Problem Various aspects of the problem of property looted during World War II have been the subject of international agreements. One issue remains outstanding: the problem of cultural goods whose ownership is likely to be contested. The problem of looted cultural goods (i.e. public or private property considered as constituting an artistic creation or cultural property), which were plundered in wartime through acts of violence, confiscation or by apparently legal transactions or auctions, unfortunately remains part of human history even at the beginning of the twenty-first century. Such plundering occurred throughout the ages, but became more acute during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. During World War II cultural goods were looted on a massive scale never before seen. The scale of the looting was well-documented both during and after the war, and has been recognised and accepted by all the Member States. Post-war records show that several million objects were looted, including museum quality works of art, furniture, books, religious objects and other culturally significant works. From the records of post-war claims made by survivors and their families, and by Member States it appears that thousands of major art works in circulation (including some in museum collections) have gaps in their provenance which are traceable to the World War II period in Europe (1939 - 1945). It is also acknowledged by public entities that considerable numbers of art works have been moved through the art market without any clear identification of title, and with gaps in the history of their ownership. Museums and art dealers acknowledge the need for legal certainty to clarify the provenance of their collections and acquisitions. Although the problem of looted cultural goods is a matter of public knowledge, it has often proved remarkably difficult for private claimants to recover their property. One reason for this is that many European nations have chosen to ignore international law regarding the status of this property, and permit a thief (or those in the chain of possession from the thief) to pass valid title to buyers under national law. In addition, looted cultural goods cases often become enmeshed in complex issues of choice of law and statutes of limitation, based on where the art was looted, where it has been over time or where it was found. Finally, claimants have faced significant hurdles in researching their claims, due to varying standards of archival access over Europe. Immediately after World War II, various national laws dealing specifically with looted property were adopted, many of which were then allowed to lapse. The subject returned to the forefront of public attention when the Berlin Wall fell and archives in Eastern Europe and Russia were opened. Many private organisations began to work actively on the issue of looted cultural goods, and various national commissions and working groups were established to scrutinise archives, enquire into the provenance of works of art and, in some cases, examine individual requests for restitution. Unfortunately, it is generally acknowledged that the problem of looted art in Europe did not end in 1945. By way of example, the Commission on Real