Bank of Greece, after having served as Deputy Governor since December 1993. In my capacity as Governor, I have been President of the Monetary Policy Council of the Bank and Chairman of the Committee on Banking and Credit. I have been directly involved in all monetary policy decisions aimed at attaining price stability in Greece and fulfilling other convergence criteria for joining Economic and Monetary Union. I have also overseen the process of financial deregulation and capital liberalisation as well as the changes in the banking supervision framework and practices in Greece over the past seven years and, more recently, the changeover to the euro. 2. Please highlight the three most important aspects of your European and international experience. My European experience stems from my membership in a number of committees of the European Community and of the European Union central banks. Specifically: ∙ From 1985 to 1988, I was a member of the Monetary Committee of the European Communities. From 1985 to 1993, I was also a member of the Committee of Alternates of the Governors of the EC Central Banks and served as Chairman of the Committee in 1989. The work of these committees focused on many aspects of European monetary and financial integration, including preparatory work for the Maastricht Treaty. ∙ From 1992 to 1994, I was Chairman of the Monetary Policy Sub-Committee of the Committee of Governors and, subsequently, of the Monetary Policy Sub-Committee of the Council of the European Monetary Institute. During that period, the work of this Sub-Committee included the analysis of issues connected with the monetary policy strategy and operational framework of the future European Central Bank. ∙ From 1994 to 1998, I was a member of the Council of the European Monetary Institute. Also, I have been a member of the General Council of the ECB since January 1999 and of its Governing Council since January 2001. My international professional experience includes: my work as a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (while on leave from Columbia University in 1980); my position as Governor for Greece of the International Monetary Fund since 1994 and membership in the Economic Policy Committee of the OECD; and, since January 2001, the chairmanship of the Central Bank Governors’ Club, a forum comprising the governors of the central banks of sixteen southeast European and Asian countries. 3. What are the two most important decisions to which you have been party in your professional life? Could you explain your choice? As a central banker, I have taken or have been party to a number of important policy decisions. I have chosen two such decisions which have had a broad and fundamental impact on the economy and on the effectiveness of monetary policy. ∙ As Deputy Governor, I was party to the decision to fully liberalize capital movements in Greece in 1994 without allowing the drachma to devalue, as was widely expected at the time; then I helped, by means of a stability-oriented monetary policy, to defend the currency successfully against a speculative attack. The significance of this