that any Commission initiative is accompanied by an impact assessment that evaluates the legal basis of the initiative and its compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. 21. The committee requests the Commission to adopt appropriate proposals aimed at clarifying the competences of home and host State authorities under EC legislation with regard to the supervision of the conduct of business of assurance undertakings and the concept of "general good". In particular, such proposals should enable the host State to carry out an effective conduct of business supervision of undertakings operating on its territory, with assistance and information pertaining to the financial state of such undertakings provided by the home State. 22. The committee considers that information requirements contained in the Third Life Directive should be extended and specified with a view to ensuring a high level of harmonised consumer protection across the European Union. The information to be provided to the consumer in a clear and complete manner must include specifications about which authority the consumer should approach with complaints and queries, including concrete examples. The committee notes that since the difficulties at Equitable Life, information requirements were introduced as a result of the Insurance Mediation Directive and the Distance Marketing Directive and asks the Commission to evaluate their impact and, if appropriate, make proposals in the light of that evaluation. 23. The committee strongly requests that national financial authorities make all necessary efforts to cooperate so as to ensure that complaints that concern areas that are linked to both prudential and conduct of business matters are properly and exhaustively dealt with. 24. The committee requests the UK Government to bring relevant legislation into compliance with Community law by amending it so as to grant access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to investors who concluded contracts with foreign branches of UK firms, which are supervised by the FSA, whether or not those investors are resident in the UK. 25. The committee also calls on the Commission to proceed swiftly with its preparation of a directive to require each Member State to establish an insurance guarantee scheme covering both domestic and EU foreign branches customers and beneficiaries and to table a proposal for such a directive by the end of 2007. 26. The committee recommends that the Commission leave open the possibility of exercising its discretion to investigate past infringements of Community law, in particular but not only where the alleged breaches affect a large number of citizens across several Member States. Furthermore, it invites the Commission to assess the potential merits of a directive or modification of Treaty provisions that would allow it to refer such cases to the Court of Justice of the European Communities or directly penalise Member States for past infringements. 27. The committee strongly recommends that Parliament, the Council and the Commission, when legislating in the financial services area, bear in mind the need to draft legislation in a comprehensive and comprehensible way which grants the individual consumer clearly defined rights which can be relied upon before national courts. This would improve consumer protection whilst