available to the European consumer ". Given the currently unsatisfactory situation, the Commission has " been working with Member States for some time on the subject of insurance guarantee schemes and is currently considering whether to table a proposal for a Directive to require each Member State to establish such a scheme covering both domestic and EU foreign branches customers and beneficiaries ", according to Mr TERTÁK (H1). Ms O'DEA (H4) specified that the Commission has convened a working group to consider how a minimum level of harmonisation in relation to insurance compensation might be achieved to ensure that consumers dealing with cross-border insurers would have access to the compensation available in the home Member State of the insurer. " We believe that this should go forward ", said Ms O'DEA. Mr MAXWELL of HM Treasury (H4) also expressed support, in principle, for a European Directive covering insurance guarantee schemes: " Unlike in the case of banking deposits, there is currently no European framework for the operation of national insurance compensation schemes. ... The UK has indicated that it would not stand in the way of a soundly based proposal. But any proposal for a Directive on insurance guarantee schemes can only be one part of a system that must include improved co-operation between home and host state supervisors. " Similarly, Mr STEFFEN from BaFin said that " we watch with great interest the further development of discussions between the European Member States on a harmonised legal framework for protection schemes in the European Union ... and Germany is participating constructively in these efforts " (H6). 5. Court action As far as possible court action against insurance providers is concerned, Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters provides in general that jurisdiction is exercised in the Member State in which the defendant is domiciled regardless of his or her nationality. Section 3 (Articles 8 to 14) lays down specific rules for matters relating to insurance. Article 9 paragraph 1 stipulates that " an insurer domiciled in a Member State may be sued (a) in the courts of the Member State where he is domiciled, or (b) in another Member State , in the case of actions brought by the policyholder ... in the courts for the place where the plaintiff is domiciled ". Article 9 paragraph 2 specifies that " an insurer who is not domiciled in a Member State but has a branch, agency or other establishment in one of the Member States shall, in disputes arising out of the operations of the branch, agency or establishment, be deemed to be domiciled in that Member State ". The Regulation also provides for the recognition and enforcement of judgements by the Member States concerned. It follows that Irish/German policyholders, who have contracted with Equitable Life in the UK, would have the choice of suing the company either in the UK or in the country where they are domiciled, which will most likely be Ireland/Germany. On the other hand, Irish/German policyholders