the State whose law is chosen comprises several territorial units each of which has its own system of law or a set of rules in respect of divorce , which territorial unit's law they have agreed upon . Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Recital 24 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (24) This Regulation respects fundamental rights and observes the principles enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and in particular Article 21 thereof, which states that any discrimination based on any ground such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation shall be prohibited. This Regulation must be applied by the courts of the participating Member States in observance of those rights and principles, (24) This Regulation respects fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and in particular Article 21 thereof, which states that any discrimination based on any ground such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation shall be prohibited. This Regulation must be applied by the courts of the participating Member States in observance of those rights and principles, Amendment 28 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 – title Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Material scope Scope Amendment 29 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 – paragraph 1a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. This Regulation shall not apply to the following matters, even if they arise merely as a preliminary question within the context of divorce or legal separation proceedings: (a) the legal capacity of natural persons; (b) the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage; (c) the annulment of a marriage; (d) the name of the spouses; (e) the property consequences of the marriage; (f) parental responsibility; (g) maintenance obligations; (h) trusts or successions. Justification It is necessary to clarify the scope of the Regulation, both in a recital and in the enacting terms, at least in terms of what is excluded. Amendment 30 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. For the purposes of this Regulation, 'participating Member State' means a Member State which participates in enhanced cooperation on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation by virtue of Council Decision […] of […] authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. 2. For the purposes of this Regulation, 'participating Member State' means a Member State which participates in enhanced cooperation on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation by virtue of Council Decision 2010/405/EU of 12 July 2010 authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation , or by virtue of a decision adopted in accordance with the second or third subparagraph of Article 331(1)