Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (5 May 2008) To address the issue raised by the Honourable Member, it is necessary to inform and educate both parents and children. Action at Member State level is essential, while the EU can stimulate best practices and encourage the use of hotlines across Europe. The EUR 45 million Safer Internet plus programme (2005‑08) supports cooperation among the different actors from mobile operators to child welfare non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The programme has a wide scope, covering technologies as diverse as 3G mobile phones, online games and chat rooms; dealing with content ranging from child abuse images to racism. One of the objectives of the Internet Safety (INSAFE) awareness network, which is supported by the Safer Internet plus programme, is to make children and young people aware of the multitude of content that exists online, and how to handle racist material. In addition, some of the hotlines supported by the Safer Internet plus programme, where people can report illegal material that they come across online, deal with racist content, particularly in the countries where such the distribution of this material is illegal. The Safer Internet plus programme has also supported the development of filtering technologies for the use of the European public. Some of the technical solutions available to parents and carers allow for blocking material with a racist content. The Programme is now in a process of assessing the effectiveness of different filtering solutions available to the European public in a benchmarking study. There is also a role for self-regulation. For instance, the ‘YouTube Community Guidelines’ indicate that: ‘Graphic or gratuitous violence is not allowed. If your video shows someone getting hurt, attacked, or humiliated, don't post it.’ and that: ‘We encourage free speech and defend everyone's right to express unpopular points of view. But we don't permit hate speech (speech which attacks or demeans a group based on race or ethnic origin, religion, disability, gender, age, veteran status, and sexual orientation/gender identity).’ YouTube indicates that violations of the Terms of Use may result in a warning notification or may result in termination of one's account and deletion of all one's videos. The Commission has adopted policies aimed at reducing racist content online, in particular, the recommendation on the Protection of Minors and Human Dignity and on the Right of Reply COM(2004)341 final. which calls for action against discrimination in all media. The Commission would also like to draw the attention of the Honourable Member to the fact that in April 2007 the Justice and Home Affairs (JHA) Council reached political agreement on the Commission's proposal for a Framework Decision on combating Racism and Xenophobia COM(2001)664 final. . The framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law sets out a common, EU approach to racism and xenophobia and requires intentional racist and xenophobic conduct to be criminally punishable across all Member States. The framework decision aims at criminalising intentional conduct, such as incitation to violence or hate towards a group of people, or