multi-annual and indicative. 2. An annual exchange of views shall take place once a year on the basis of a presentation by the representative of the Commission of the general guidelines for the operations to be carried out, in the framework of a joint meeting of the Committees referred to in Article 14(1). Article 13 1. The Commission shall be responsible for appraising, deciding on and administering operations covered by this Regulation according to the budgetary and other procedures in force, and in particular those laid down in the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. 2. The work programme shall be adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 14. Article 14 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the geographically determined Committee competent for development. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, the management procedure laid down in Article 4 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Articles 7 and Article 8 thereof. The period provided for in Article 4, paragraph 3, of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be 45 days. Chapter IV Reports Article 15 1. After each budget year, the Commission shall submit in its annual report on EC development policy to the European Parliament and to the Council, information on the operations financed in the course of that year and the Commission's conclusions on the implementation of this Regulation over the previous budget year. The summary shall, in particular, provide information about the strengths, weaknesses and outcomes of operations, those with whom contracts have been concluded as well as the results of any independent evaluations of specific operations. 2. One year before the expiry of this Regulation, the Commission shall submit an independent appraisal report on the implementation of this Regulation to the European Parliament and the Council with a view to establishing whether its objectives have been achieved and providing guidelines for improving the effectiveness of future operations. On the basis of this appraisal report, the Commission may make proposals for the future of this Regulation and, if necessary, proposals for its amendment. Article 16 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall apply until 31 December 2006. Done at , For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President