(or in another legal act which they are intended to implement). The legal basis defines the Community's competence ratione materiae and specifies how that competence is to be exercised, namely the legislative instrument(s) which may be used and the decision-making procedure. In view of the consequences of the legal basis, its choice is of basic importance, particularly for Parliament, since it determines what say, if any, Parliament has in the legislative process. However, according to the Court of Justice the choice of legal basis is not a subjective one, but "must be based on objective factors which are amenable to judicial review" Case 45/86, Commission v. Council [1987] ECR 1439, para. 5. , such as the aim and content of the measure in question Case C-300/89, Commission v. Council [1991] ECR I-287, para. 10. . Furthermore, the decisive factor should be the main object of a measure. Case C-377/98, Netherlands v. European Parliament and Council [2001] ECR I-7079, para. 27. This means that Parliament's preference for codecision as opposed to consultation cannot override what appears from the analysis of the aim and content of the proposed measure. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice, a general Treaty article constitutes a sufficient legal basis even though the measure in question also seeks, in a subordinate manner, to attain an aim sought by a specific Treaty article Case C-377/98 Netherlands v. European Parliament and Council [2001] ECR I-7079, paras 27-28; Case C-491/01 British American Tobacco (Investments) and Imperial Tobacco [2002] ECR I-11453, paras 93-94. . Analysis The first question to be asked is what is the aim and content of the proposed measure. This can be ascertained by examining the recitals and provisions of the proposed regulation. Recital (1) refers simply to the four regulations mentioned in ITRE's letter creating the single European sky. Recital (2) describes the SESAR project to modernise air traffic control management in Europe as the "technological element of the single European Sky". Recital (3) states that SESAR "aims to integrate and coordinate activities which were previously undertaken in a dispersed and uncoordinated manner in the Community". Recitals (4), (5) and (6) explain that the definition phase of SESAR is already underway, being carried out by Eurocontrol and financed by the EC under the heading of trans-European networks and financed by Eurocontrol. The definition phase is to be followed by the development and deployment phases. Recital (7) states how route charges can provide income to finance projects. Recital (8) states that the EU will contribute to the development of space-based applications. Recital (9) explains that by avoiding duplication of research and deployment activities, SESAR will not lead to an increase in air users' overall contribution to R&D. Recital (10) explains that, following the Community's accession to Eurocontrol, a cooperation framework agreement has been signed for the implementation of the single European sky and for research and development in the field of air traffic control. Recital (11) states that there should be contributions from the private sector to the budget for the implementation phase of SESAR. Recital (12) states