Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (9 October 2006) 1. The Commission is aware that the disease seems to have the potential to become a serious problem for horse chestnut trees. The United Kingdom (UK) Forestry Commission mentions that ‘Forest Research scientists estimate some 35000 to 50000 trees are affected and probably a few thousands have already been felled as a result of the disease.’ Please see http://www.forestry.gov.uk/fr/INFD-6KYBN2 So far, the real causal agent of this disease still seems to be unclear. 2. In the Fifth Framework Programme for Research and Development (FP5), the Commission funded a project that concentrated on the ‘Sustainable Control of the Horse Chestnut Leaf-miner’ Qlk5-CT-2000-01684; Contocam, www.cameraria.de . In the course of the project, a conference was organised in Prague on 24-27 March 2004 that dealt with other chestnut related pests and diseases. Another FP5 project is trying to ‘Improve Pest Risk Analysis Techniques’ Qlk5-CT-2002-00672, Phrame, http://www.forestry.gov.uk/fr/INFD-63KGEF . The project is still running and the aim is to develop knowledge-based pest management strategies based on improved Pest Risk Analyses methodology. In the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Development (FP6) a Coordinated Action Project (Forthreats) was positively evaluated and is currently under contract negotiation. The specific objectives of the Forthreats project are: — Constitution of a network of expertise from old and new Member States on possible threats to European forest ecosystems posed by emerging diseases and alien species. — Identifying and listing possible threats to European forest ecosystems posed by emerging diseases and alien species. — Identifying and listing likely origins of threats and modes of movement in Europe. — Qualifying and quantifying major threats in a geographic and climatic context. — Indicate: (i) possible ways for preventing introductions, (ii) environmentally compatible control measures, and (iii) suggested areas in need of attention for legislation. — Prepare suggestions for standardisation of methodology etc. — Indicate areas were future research is needed. The project involves 23 partners, is coordinated by the Mid Sweden University and will start, most likely, at the end of 2006. In the forthcoming Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Development (FP7) pressing research needs and research to support specific policy needs are foreseen within the Specific Themes of the Cooperation programme. Forest pathology related questions are foreseen by Specific Theme 2 ‘Food, Agriculture and Biotechnology’.