of an SPE shall be disclosed. 6. The registration of an SPE shall be disclosed. Justification The list of shareholders is now added to the documents that the company has to deposit and display at the register (para 2). Together with allowing more options of control (para 4) and expanding the control to changes in the register (para 5), changes in the shareholder-structure of the company become public. As a consequence, amendments to articles 15 and 16 that address the same "publicity-concern" are covered. The list of shareholders (article 15) and changes among the shareholders (article 16) are now to be examined and displayed publicly (via article 10). With a view to amendment on cross-border component, it appears appropriate for the business object to be entered in the register. The addition is based on Article 10 of Directive 68/151/EEC. Amendment 2 3 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) the name of the SPE, the address of its registered office and, where appropriate, the fact that the company is being wound up. (b) the name of the SPE, the address of its registered office and, where appropriate, details of its central administration or principal place of business, the existence of any branches and the fact that the company is being wound up. Justification It is important to provide for an appropriate system of disclosure able to give relevant information about a SPE. Amendment 2 4 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) details of the members of the executive management body of the SPE. Justification For business partners it is important to know who is a member of the executive management body and who is authorised by the company. Amendment 2 5 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The management body of the SPE shall draw up a list of shareholders. The list shall contain at least the following: 1. The executive management body of the SPE shall draw up a list of shareholders. The list shall contain at least the following: (a) the name and address of each shareholder; (a) the name of, and a postal address for, each shareholder; (b) the number of shares held by the shareholder concerned, their nominal value or accountable par; (b) the number of shares held by the shareholder concerned, their nominal value or accountable par; (c) where a share is owned by more than one person, the names and addresses of the co-owners and of the common representative; (c) where a share is owned by more than one person, the names and addresses of the co-owners and of the common representative; (d) the date of acquisition of the shares; (d) the date of acquisition of the shares; (e) the amount of each consideration in cash, if any, paid or to be paid by the shareholder concerned; (e) the amount of each consideration in cash, if any, paid or to be paid