). From the evidence obtained, however, it appears that the FOS does not normally concern itself with complaints about alleged breaches of prudential rules, even if this would not be precluded, in principle, by the FOS's statute, which states that the FOS's compulsory jurisdiction extends to any complaint relating to an activity regulated under the Financial Services and Markets Act. In essence, since most non-UK policyholders have purchased their policies from ELAS branches outside the UK, the vast majority of them were excluded from this avenue to redress. While evidence suggests that no German complaint was accepted by the FOS, the latter appears to have dealt with at least one complaint from an Irish policyholder. It is not clear, however, on which basis the FOS decided whether or not an Irish complaint fell under its jurisdiction. The decision on jurisdiction appears to have been taken a long time after some of the complaints were lodged, e.g. 18 months in the case of Ms KNOWD (see H2). At the time, there seems to have been confusion about this issue, not only among policyholders but also among the institutions concerned. As noted above, even the Irish authorities, who had contacted the UK Financial Ombudsman Service with a view to exploring whether Irish policyholders would have recourse to it were " not able to get clarification on whether Irish policyholders of Equitable Life fall specifically under the jurisdiction of the UK Financial Services Ombudsman ". c.) The UK Parliamentary Ombudsman As mentioned above, the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman is currently carrying out an investigation " to determine whether individuals were caused injustice through maladministration in the period prior to December 2001 on the part of the public bodies responsible for the prudential regulation of the Equitable Life Assurance Society and/or the Government's Actuary Department; and to recommend appropriate redress for any injustice so caused " (WE 12 Annex B. ). It is important to note that her investigation only covers the period up to 1 December 2001, as the FSA, which was established as the sole regulator from that date, is not a body within her jurisdiction. Likewise, the Ombudsman can only inquire into the actions of those charged with the prudential regulation of ELAS, while she cannot consider complaints about the conduct of business or marketing issues. Complaints to the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman have to be referred by a Member of the UK House of Commons. According to Mr LAKE (H1) therefore, " the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman is not, as a matter of legal implementation, available to other than subjects of the British Crown through their Member of Parliament ". Therefore, as Mr SEYMOUR pointed out, " a Community citizen from outside the UK cannot appeal to the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman " (H7). The original position taken by the Ombudsman's office as expressed in its letter to EMAG was such that international policyholders (who have contacted with ELAS' branches outside the UK) would not be covered by the investigation (WE 14 Page 42. ). However, the Parliamentary Ombudsman reversed this position after having obtained legal