of cash in hand, and so forth. Similarly, UK legislation includes rules that impose a limit on the maximum admissible value of each type of asset that can be taken into account for regulatory purposes. Regulation 57 provides that, where the aggregate exposure of the company to assets of any one description exceeds the “maximum admissible value” for assets of that description, “there shall be left out of account assets equal in value to the excess”. Regulation 57 goes on to define “maximum admissible value” for a company carrying on long-term business as an amount equal to the percentage of the “long-term business amount” specified in Schedule 12, Part I. Unlike the Directive, UK legislation imposes the percentage restrictions by reference not to technical provisions but with regard to “long-term business amount”. The DTI argued that it was not necessary to introduce any changes because UK rules are, in the majority of cases, more prudent than the rules set out in the Directive. See comments on article 21.1 in WE 20, Wilde Sapte Report, 'Section II.2.2' of this Part. For instance, the maximum admissible value for cash is 3% of the long-term business amount. The UK rule does not expressly prescribe that assurance undertakings cannot invest more than 3% on cash; what the UK rule does prescribe is that, if the company does invest more than 3% on cash, the excess will not be counted for the valuation of that particular asset. In some cases the national aggregate exposure limits are more prudent than the Directive’s investment limits. For instance, the Directive limits investments in any piece of land to up to 10% of the company’s total gross technical provisions, while the national measure limits the company’s aggregate exposure to a piece of land to up to 5% of the undertaking’s long-term business amount. In other cases the limits are the same, for instance for unlisted shares (10%) and cash (3%). UK regulation goes on to prescribe some limits not prescribed by the Directive, for example, 5% on holdings in authorised unit trust schemes, 5% on computer equipment and 2.5% on office machinery. Link to the ELAS case This article is linked to the case within the terms of paragraph 6, which introduces an escape clause to the requirements contained in the rest of the article. According to this provision, "in exceptional circumstances” and “at an assurance undertaking’s request”, the home Member State may “temporarily” and “under a properly reasoned decision" allow exceptions to the rules laid down in paragraph 1. This needs to be seen in the context of Article 25 on the Solvency margin and Article 21 on assets allowed to cover technical provisions. The issue at hand is whether UK legislation gives the regulator (the Secretary of State) broader powers than those prescribed by the Directive to waive regulations on prudential supervision. At UK level, under section 68 of the 1982 ICA, the Secretary of State may, upon request or with the consent from an insurer, waive the application of prudential supervision rules. The exercise of this power is