such an investigation. 4. Negligence in Conduct of Business (CoB) supervision Allegations of CoB failure were addressed by a large number of policyholders not only against the UK regulators but also against the Irish Regulator (DETE/ISFRA) The Central Bank and Financial Services Authority of Ireland Act 2003 stated that prudential supervision of the insurance sector and the services provided moved in May 2003 in its totality from the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Employment (DETE) to the Irish Financial Services Authority (ISFRA), and that actions of DETE in the insurance sector before the commencement of the 2003 Act should be construed as actions of ISFRA and/or the Minister for Finance (WE64). WE80 further explains that until 2003, there were no CoB rules specific to the sale of insurance apart from the 'Provision of Information Regulations' (S.I. 15 of 2001) and S.I. 360 of 1994, both requirements enforceable through the Courts. and the German Regulator (BAV/BaFin) BaFin took over responsibility for the insurance sector from BAV in May 2002. , who, according to 3LD provisions, were responsible for CoB supervision of EL's operations on their territory. As claimed by WE-CONF26, "it was in accordance with the Third Life Directive for the FSA not to impose the Conduct of Business rules on branches situated in other Member States ... (but) effective PRE protection for ELAS ... branch business had to be ensured by FSA." see WE-CONF26, page 4 and 5, para.1. In WE-CONF10 a policyholder complained in particular about the refusal by German regulators - systematically referring to the 'Home Country principle' as defined by 3LD - to assume any responsibility for improper operations of EL in Germany. This claim was supported by Mr. WESTPHAL in WS2 stating that " national supervision often plays a too passive role in the monitoring and enforcement process" and that "unless a 'critical mass' of complaints is reached, supervision will not get active in some Member States." 4a) Allegations of mis-selling and misrepresentation in the UK In May 2003 the UK Financial Ombudsman Service found Equitable Life guilty of 'material misrepresentations of fact' . Fundamentally, policyholders have been making two types of allegations against EL: - mis-selling by knowingly misrepresenting facts about the company's financial position, especially in relation to the GAR risks; - omission (possibly based on deceit), by failing to draw attention to the GAR risks, when that risk was a matter to be disclosed to existing and prospective policyholders. Specific evidence for mis-selling was produced by a number of policyholders: Mr. SEYMOUR (WE53), presented to the committee copies of Equitable Life sales material clearly stating that the 'with-profits' fund " has the essential feature of smoothing out fluctuations in earnings and asset values generally associated with investments in such portfolios." see WE53, annex D. This claim proved to be untrue, as EL turned out not to have accumulated any significant reserves in the years of positive market performance to allow for any 'smoothing out'. In a note to policyholders dated 26 January 2000 (WE53), Equitable Life claimed that the negative Court of Appeal ruling would