Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (26 May 2009) The Commission wishes to reassure the Honourable Member that its plans to amend the current restrictions on use of halon fire extinguishants will not threaten the safety of aircraft or the lives of anyone travelling on them. The Commission draft of an amended Annex VII to Regulation (EC) No 2037/2000 OJ L 244, 29.9.2000, p.1. The annex VII has not been amended in the recast of Regulation (EC) No 2037/2000 (COD 2008/0165) and will become Annex VI of the new Regulation, as adopted by the Parliament at first reading on 25 March 2009. , which lists the permitted uses of halon fire extinguishants, including those on aircraft, is based upon a careful assessment of the continuing use of halons in the Member States and of the availability of alternative substances and technologies. This assessment has taken into consideration that the production of halons ceased more than 15 years ago because of the harm they cause to the ozone layer, that alternatives which have met international minimum performance standards (MPSs) agreed by the industry and its regulators are now available for some aircraft applications, and that the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) is in the process of mandating replacement of halons in some applications in new aircraft being submitted for type certification. Furthermore, the proposal has been developed following consultation with key aviation stakeholders, including the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and industry representatives. The Commission is of the view that the amended Annex would provide the necessary incentive for the replacement, over a reasonable period, of halons in the lavatory and portable extinguisher applications for which alternatives exist that have met the MPSs, and for the identification and development of alternatives for the other applications. The annex would, therefore, not ban the use of halon extinguishers on aircraft unless alternatives were available, nor require the use of unproven or unsafe alternative extinguishants. Furthermore, it would come with adequate safeguards and flexibility, including a requirement for future reviews to take account of progress being made. Consequently, the Commission believes that its proposed amendment to the annex is timely and proportionate.