on its negotiating position at the Spring 2009 European Council, D. whereas the EU has strived to play a leading role in the fight against global warming and is fully supportive of the UNFCCC negotiation process, E. whereas the EU has recently adopted a climate and energy package consisting of legislative measures to implement a unilateral 20 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 levels by 2020, with the commitment to move to a 30 % reduction if a sufficiently ambitious international agreement is reached in Copenhagen, F. whereas emissions are growing rapidly in developing countries, which cannot reduce them without considerable technical and financial support, G. whereas deforestation and forest degradation account for some 20 % of global carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions; whereas deforestation and forest degradation also pose a major threat in the context of climate change since they jeopardise the important function of forests as a carbon sink; whereas deforestation occurs at an alarming rate of 13 million hectares per year, most of it in tropical regions in developing countries, H. whereas the EU emission trading scheme (EU ETS) may work as a template for the development of emission trading in other developed countries and regions, placeI. whereas half of the global mitigation efforts could be met through low-cost 'win-win' measures, i.e. by improving energy efficiency, J. whereas auctioning in emissions trading has the potential to generate a considerable amount of revenue in the future which could be used to finance mitigation and adaptation measures in developing countries, K. whereas the facilitation of financing for high-quality projects in developing countries, especially with respect to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), is dependent on a comprehensive, transparent and continuous flow of information regarding the availability of and the means to apply for funding; whereas this must be the responsibility of the international community, with the EU taking a leading role and setting a good example, L. whereas, according to recent estimates, new investments needed in emission reduction globally amount to EUR 175 000 million by 2020, of which more than half should be invested in developing countries, M. whereas the Commission has estimated that halving deforestation by 2020 will cost EUR 15 - 25 000 million annually by that year, and that halting deforestation will require even larger amounts, N. whereas a variety of studies by international organisations have estimated the cost of adaptation to climate change in developing countries to be in the range of tens of billions of euros annually, 1. Underlines that the EU must maintain a leading role in international climate policy; stresses the importance of the EU speaking with one voice in order to maintain its credibility in this role; 2. Calls for the EU to actively pursue a Copenhagen agreement which takes into account the most recent scientific reports on climate change, commits to stabilisation levels and temperature targets that provide strong probability of avoiding dangerous climate change, and allows for regular reviews to ensure that targets are in line with the latest science; welcomes the Commission’s proposals in this area; 3. Recalls