and the Council for the various posts of Commissioners to appear before the appropriate committees according to their prospective fields of responsibility. These hearings shall be held in public. 2. The committee shall invite the nominee to make a statement and answer questions. 3. The President-elect shall present the college of Commissioners and their programme at a sitting of Parliament which the whole Council shall be invited to attend. The statement shall be followed by a debate. 4. In order to wind up the debate, any political group or at least forty Members may table a motion for a resolution. Rule 103(3), (4) and (5) shall apply. Following the vote on the motion for a resolution, Parliament shall elect or reject the Commission by a majority of the votes cast. The vote shall be taken by roll call. Parliament may defer the vote until the next sitting. 5. The President shall inform the Council of the election or rejection of the Commission. 6. In the event of portfolio changes during the Commission's term of office, the Commissioners concerned shall be invited to appear before the committees responsible for the areas of responsibility in question. Rule 100 Motion of censure on the Commission 1. A motion of censure on the Commission may be submitted to the President by one tenth of the component Members of Parliament. 2. The motion shall be called 'motion of censure' and supported by reasons. It shall be forwarded to the Commission. 3. The President shall announce to Members that a motion of censure has been tabled immediately he receives it. 4. The debate on censure shall not take place until at least twenty-four hours after the receipt of a motion of censure is announced to Members. 5. The vote on the motion shall be by roll call and shall not be taken until at least forty-eight hours after the beginning of the debate. 6. The debate and the vote shall take place, at the latest, during the part-session following the submission of the motion. 7. The motion of censure shall be adopted if it secures a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, representing a majority of the component Members of Parliament. The result of the vote shall be notified to the President of the Council and the President of the Commission. Rule 101 Appointment of the Members of the Court of Auditors 1. Candidates nominated as Members of the Court of Auditors shall be invited to make a statement before the committee responsible and answer questions put by members. The committee shall vote by secret ballot separately on each nomination. 2. The committee responsible shall make a recommendation to Parliament as to whether the nomination should be approved in the form of a report containing a separate proposal for a decision for each nomination. 3. The vote in plenary shall take place within two months of the receipt of the nomination unless Parliament, at the request of the committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members, decides otherwise. Parliament shall vote by secret ballot separately on