issues now of concern to citizens in the European Union can be taken only if the European Parliament gives its consent". "The Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights will make a decisive contribution towards making democracy and parliamentarianism in the European Union a reality at all levels. We can be proud of our consistent support for the Reform Treaty and for the Charter of Fundamental Rights." To applause from the House, he stressed the role of national parliaments, saying "the cooperation between the European Parliament and national parliaments is of special concern to us. We must endeavour, in future, to maintain that cooperation". "An achievement worth embracing and celebrating" The president-in-office of the Council, Janez Janša, prime minister of Slovenia, began by saying “Ce n’est pas sans émotion que je prends la parole", echoing the words spoken by Robert Schuman, the first President of the European Parliamentary Assembly, in his inaugural address on 19 March 1958. Mr Janša recalled that, in the aftermath of two wars and in a world dominated by East-West tensions, "six Member States of the European Communities brought together 168 million Europeans, healed the wounds of the war, made economic progress and, together with the Euro-Atlantic alliance, safeguarded an area of freedom and democracy" - although "most of the remaining part of Europe, regrettably, existed in a totalitarian Communist environment". But now, he said, an "entirely different image presents itself". With the "elimination of the borders that once divided Europe", "practically all of wider Europe now also lives in freedom and democracy. This is an achievement worth embracing and celebrating." The existence and the operation of the European Parliament from 1958 is "a direct reflection of the progress achieved in the process of integration over the past fifty years", he added. However, "if the first fifty years of the EU have been dedicated to the European agenda – to our own political and economic development and reform – the next fifty years will also put the global agenda at the forefront of our attention." Apart from economic issues, energy and climate change, Mr Janša highlighted human rights and intercultural dialogue as areas in which the European Parliament plays a key role. The range of EU activities is increasing all the time but a single rule applies to them all: "success is directly proportional to unity". In the words of Jean Monnet, “Each man begins the world afresh. Only institutions grow wiser; they accumulate collective experience.” "Our joint task is therefore to promote the European collective experience. From this experience, we can draw the strength to address current challenges", argued Mr Janša. On a personal note, the prime minister told the House "I know what this time represents for our generation, being born myself in the same year as the European Parliament" and he looked forward to "the next major anniversary of this home of European democracy". European Commission President José Manuel Barroso It has been 50 years since Schuman brought together the three European communities in a new single assembly, but the political choice outlining