assess the credibility, robustness and accuracy of data and information provided to them by issuers or related parties (e.g. originators, underwriter or lawyers, in the case of structured finance products). Credit rating agencies shall indicate to which extent they have verified information provided to them. Amendment 62 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 2 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2 b . A credit rating agency shall adopt procedures and mechanisms to protect the confidential nature of information it obtains from issuers. Amendment 63 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment A credit rating agency shall record all instances where in its credit rating process it downgrades existing credit ratings prepared by another credit rating agency with respect to underlying assets or structured finance instruments providing a justification for the downgrade . A credit rating agency shall record and publish all instances where in its credit rating process it departs from existing credit ratings prepared by another credit rating agency with respect to underlying assets or structured finance instruments providing a justification for the differing assessment . Justification Credit rating agencies must provide justifications for more or less favourable assessments. Amendment 64 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. A credit rating agency shall monitor credit ratings and review its credit ratings where necessary . A credit rating agency shall establish internal arrangements to monitor the impact of changes in macroeconomic or financial market conditions on credit ratings. 4. A credit rating agency shall monitor credit ratings and review its credit ratings and methodologies on an ongoing basis, in particular where material changes occur that could impact on the rating of an instrument . A credit rating agency shall establish internal arrangements to monitor the impact of changes in macroeconomic or financial market conditions on credit ratings. I t shall also issue a warning in the event of general adverse and extreme market conditions. Amendment 65 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. Whe re a credit rating agency issues or endorses a credit rating issued by a third-country credit rating agency, the Community credit rating agency shall be liable for the accuracy of all the information used and for the methodology applied . Amendment 66 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 5 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5 b . A credit rating agency shall, on the request of a competent authority, explain , ex post , its methodologies, models and key rating assumptions. Such an explanation shall not prejudice the content of the rating or the independence of the credit rating agency. Justification A credit rating agency needs to be able to explain ex post their methodology, models and key assumptions to competent authorities. This principle forces CRA to have full understanding of their rating methodologies, models and rating assumptions. Nonetheless, the independence of the CRAs and the ratings