acts of violence to be brought to justice and punished; 3. Urges the Council, the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and his special envoy for South Caucasus to make every effort to facilitate the dialogue between the parties, defuse tension and contribute to restoring mutual confidence; 4. Calls on the Georgian authorities immediately to lay down and enforce all the necessary conditions for free and fair elections, which include the full restoration and guarantee of freedom of expression and media freedom and fair and balanced access for all the parties and candidates to both public and private media; 5. Welcomes the rapid invitation to the OSCE and other international organisations to monitor and supervise the election campaign, election day and the ballot-counting operations; 6. Calls on the Georgian authorities to allow the Imedi TV and Radio Company to resume broadcasting without further delay and to ensure that this company is reimbursed and compensated for the damage to its outlets and the destruction of its equipment; 7. Welcomes the amendments to the electoral code adopted by the Georgian Parliament which will allow opposition parties to appoint six representatives to the Central Election Commission and each of the precinct election commissions, as well as the lifting of restrictions on monitoring of elections by international observers; 8. Underlines that one of the priority areas of the ENP Action Plan is the rule of law; urges the EU in this connection, after the end of the EUJUST-THEMIS ESDP mission in July 2005, to further focus, as regards its assistance to Georgia, on the independence of the judiciary and the training of Georgian police and security forces; 9. Reaffirms its full support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia and calls on the Russian authorities to respect fully the sovereignty of that country within its internationally recognised borders; 10. Reiterates its call on Russia to lift its unjustified import ban on Georgian agricultural products, which was imposed over a year ago; 11. Stresses the extraordinary role played by civil society in Georgia; calls on the Tbilisi authorities to make the most of the proposals coming from NGOs and to engage in a broad and deep dialogue with all of its components; 12. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Member States, the President and the Parliament of Georgia, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the President and Parliament of the Russian Federation.