this question should be determined by the regulation, not by the Convention. As Amendment 18 to Article 1(3)a) (new) raises the question of recognition in the field of control, Article 4(6) can be deleted. Amendment 34 Article 4, paragraph 6 a (new) 6a. The EGTC shall be subject to the law governing the way in which associations operate of the State designated by its members. Justification The Commission proposal makes no provision for EGTC registration procedures or for procedures whereby the EGTC's registration process and compliance with the Regulation and with the national law of the designated Member State may be checked. This is a necessary provision, which is why Amendment 31 proposes that the EGTC registration procedure be subject to the rules and regulations that apply to the registration of associations, and that the place of registration and the applicable law be determined in accordance with the decision reached by the EGTC members as to the choice of Member State whose national law shall apply to the EGTC. Amendment 35 Article 4, paragraph 7 7. The conditions for granting concessions or public service delegations to the EGCC within the cross-border co-operation are to be defined in the convention, on the basis of the applicable national law. 7. The conditions for granting concessions or public service delegations to the EGTC within the territorial co-operation are to be defined in the convention, on the basis of the applicable national law. (The first part of the amendment does not affect the English version.) Amendment 36 Article 4, paragraph 8 8. The convention is notified to all its members and to the Member States. 8. The convention is notified to the Member States involved in the EGTC, to the Commission and to the Committee of the Regions . The Commission shall enter the convention in a public register of all conventions on EGTCs . Justification It is not necessary to present the convention to the EGTC members, but we do need to clarify which Member States need to be notified - i.e. those who are affected by the convention. It would also be appropriate to place at its disposal a database covering all the EGTCs set up on Union territory, and to entrust this task to the Committee of the Regions. Amendment 37 Article 5, paragraph 2, points a) to e) 2. The statutes contain the following provisions: a) the list of its members; b) the objective and tasks of the EGCC , and its relations with the members ; c) its name and the address of its seat; d) its organs and their competencies, its functioning, the number of representatives of the members on the organs; e) the decision-making procedures of the EGCC ; 2. The statutes contain the following provisions: a) the list of its members; b) the objective and tasks of the EGTC ; c) its name and the address of its seat; d) its organs , which shall include an assembly composed of representatives of its members, an executive committee, its competencies, its functioning, the number of representatives of the members