reduce their bulk food aid programmes. On 16 January, at the last plenary session in Strasbourg, MEPs passed a joint resolution on the humanitarian crisis in North Korea. UN Commission on Human Rights Council and Commission statements on the UNHR Committe e meeting (Geneva – 17 March-4 April 2003) Debate : 29.01.2003 The Council and Commission will make statements on the forthcoming UN Commission on Human Rights meeting. The fifty-ninth session of the Commission on Human Rights will be held from 17 March to 25 April 2003 at the Palais des Nations in Geneva. Najat Al-Hajjaji of Libya will act as Chairperson for 2003 after recently being elected. Among the issues on the provisional agenda include: the right of peoples to self-determination and its application to peoples under colonial or alien domination or foreign occupation, the question of the violation of human rights in the occupied Arab territories, including Palestine, and questions of human rights in Cyprus and the rights of the child. For more information on the fifty-ninth session of the Commission on Human Rights: http://www.unhchr.ch/html/menu2/2/59chr/ For more information on how the EU is represented at the UN see: http://europa-eu-un.org/ Illegal exploitation of the Wealth of the Democratic of Congo Council and Commission statements on illegal exploitation of the wealth of the Democratic Republic of Congo Debate : 29.01.2003 The Council and the Commission will be making statements on the illegal exploitation of the wealth of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and how the EU intends to combat this. Over the years, the huge natural resources of the DRC have been looted wholesale by both government allies and opponents, and the state is powerless - and sometimes unwilling - to stop them. That is the conclusion of a United Nations Panel of Experts established to report on whether persistent allegations that the war in the DRC has become both self-financing and self-sustaining The DRC is rich in gold, timber, diamonds, cobalt, copper, and the rare metal coltan - hugely valuable because it is needed to make a variety of electronic goods such as mobile phones. The UN panel called for a moratorium on all exports of these materials from the Congo, and said that even government-approved contracts should be reviewed. Part of the problem is explained in a recent UN report (see link below) which analyses the export trends of Congo's neighbours, and links them to their involvement in the exploitation of Congo's natural resources. In 2000, the report states Uganda received $1,263,385 from exporting diamonds, despite having no diamond production. In 2000, gold production was 0.0044 tons, but 10.83 tons were exported. In July 1999, a cease-fire was signed in Lusaka by the Heads of state from Zimbabwe, Angola, Namibia, Rwanda which ended a brutal 11-month civil war in the region. The EU’s work within the context of the Cotonu Agreement, focuses on supporting the Lusaka cease-fire agreement. On 10 January this year, the Commission allocated €1.1 million to support a United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) protection, care and maintenance programme for around 60,000 Angolan refugees living