Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (8 March 2012) The European External Action Service (EEAS) and the Commission have been following this case very closely, and have actively pursued this issue, both here at headquarters in Brussels as well as in the EU Delegation in Moscow. The case of Sergei Magnitsky has been raised with the Russian authorities many times, including at the highest level. Most recently the EU has expressed its serious concerns with regard to lack of progress in this case to President Medvedev at the EU‑Russia Summit on 15 December 2011, stressing the necessity of a credible and comprehensive investigation by the Russian authorities into this matter. All the pertinent questions raised by the Honourable Members have been raised during the last round of the human rights consultations with Russia on 29 November 2011, with no clear response from the Russian side. Some of these questions were also asked in written in the recent past, as part of the exchange of lists of individual cases of concern. The Russian side has informed the EEAS that discussions on this issue were taking place between the Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights and the investigative committee. The EU has also been informed that the investigative committee has signed a broad cooperation agreement with the Presidential Council, whereby for all high profile cases, human rights defenders would be able to be present during the investigation of such cases. Overall, the EU has welcomed the independent examination of the case ordered by President Medvedev and looked closely at the preliminary conclusions. However, it remains disappointing that only two prison doctors have so far been charged in this case, and many questions remain to be addressed. The EU keeps calling on Russia to bring the official investigation to a full conclusion. The EU will continue urging the Russian Government to investigate this case properly and fully and bringing those responsible for wrongdoings to justice with no further delay.