a view to negotiate a proper Dispute Settlement Mechanism. A draft agreement was initialled with Egypt at the EU-Egypt Association Council held in Luxembourg on 27 April 2010. The creation of a standard dispute settlement mechanism is welcomed, as it should provide streamlined and effective redress procedures within firm time limits. The Rapporteur believes that these upgrades to the Euromed Free Trade Agreements can contribute towards economic and political stability in this key region with a view to consolidating a single shore of peace, development, justice, equality, freedom, plurality, democracy and respect. Furthermore, the proper application of such a mechanism could increase the security and the predictability of our bilateral trade relations and could represent a further step towards the setting up and the proper functioning of the Euromed Free Trade Area. The proposed mechanism is modelled on the dispute settlement mechanisms of the most recent agreements concluded by the European Union and on the WTO Dispute Settlement Understanding. The Rapporteur agrees that bilateral trade agreements should always be fully compatible with the multilateral trading system. Moreover, the Commission needs to ensure is that the implementation is effective and will, de facto , be used. In the light of the above, the Rapporteur proposes that Parliament gives its consent to this agreement. Lingering disputes have a negative effect on the business community and also on end-consumers on both shores of the Mediterranean. With the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, Foreign Direct Investment became part of the EU Trade Policy, and thus part of the Union's exclusive competence. In an era where Foreign Direct Investment plays an important role in the economic welfare of countries and regions, the Rapporteur hopes that a well functionning and effective dispute settlement mechanism will also serve to solve disputes also in this area. RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE Date adopted 16.3.2011 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 24 0 2 Members present for the final vote William (The Earl of) Dartmouth, Laima Liucija Andrikienė, Kader Arif, David Campbell Bannerman, Christofer Fjellner, Metin Kazak, Bernd Lange, David Martin, Emilio Menéndez del Valle, Vital Moreira, Cristiana Muscardini, Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl, Niccolò Rinaldi, Tokia Saïfi, Helmut Scholz, Peter Šťastný, Robert Sturdy, Gianluca Susta, Keith Taylor, Iuliu Winkler, Pablo Zalba Bidegain, Paweł Zalewski Substitute(s) present for the final vote Catherine Bearder, George Sabin Cutaş, Syed Kamall, Miloslav Ransdorf, Jarosław Leszek Wałęsa