Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (6 October 2005) The Bosphorus/Marmara project to which the Honourable Member refers passes under historical parts of the city of Istanbul, but not under the Aghia Sofia, the Blue Mosque (Sultan Ahmet Mosque) or the Topkapi Palace. The Commission is aware of archaeological findings unearthed in the course of the excavations, including a tunnel from the Byzantine period (not, however, believed to be an aqueduct). According to the Commission’s information, reports that this and other archaeological treasures are not being protected are however inaccurate. In Turkey, Preservation Committees for the Natural and Cultural Assets are responsible for the historical heritages. In this particular case, Committee No 1, which is responsible for the Historical Peninsula, assigned to the Istanbul Archaeological Museum the supervision and coordination of archaeological excavations for the Bosphorus/Marmara Project. At present, the archaeological excavations are done at the sites of three underground stations: Yenikapý and Üsküdar Stations are cut-and-cover stations and, although Sirkeci is a tunnel station, archaeological excavations are done at the entrance and exit areas. Istanbul Archaeological Museum reports monthly to the Committees on these excavations. According to information available to the Commission, the Turkish authorities have until now spent more than EUR 1 million on archaeological excavations related to the Bosphorus/Marmara Projectand the final amount will probably exceed EUR 2.5 million. Since Istanbul is a World Heritage City, Unesco United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. is also following the Bosphorus/Marmara Project activities as far as archaeological and environmental matters are concerned. It was Unesco’s suggestion to exhibit the archaeological findings in the original area. Subsequently, Committee No 1 gave instructions for the establishment of a museum in Yenikapý. The overall cost of the Bosphorus/Marmara project is estimated at around EUR 2.7 billion. The project promoter has requested a credit of EUR 650 million from the European Investment Bank (EIB). EIB has agreed to make an initial amount of EUR 200 million available under a financing contract signed in September 2004. The EIB is closely monitoring this project in conjunction with the promoter. Furthermore, from early 2006 a Technical Assistance Team, financed by grant funding put at the disposal of EIB by the Commission and composed of seven long term experts, will assist the promoter in implementing and monitoring the project.