Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (14 December 2011) The EU has repeatedly (Foreign Affairs Council (FAC) conclusions and HR/VP statements) called for the new Libya to be based upon respect for human rights and democratic principles. The FAC of 14 November addressed this issue when it explicitly expressed its concerns on revenge attacks and summary executions in the Conclusions. During her visit to Tripoli on 12 November, the HR/VP also emphasised to Chairman Jalil and the new PM Al-Keib the need to respect international human rights and democratic principles. For its part, the Libyan leadership has repeatedly underscored the importance of respect for these principles notably in a number of key public statements. Transitional justice is one of the key areas to be addressed in Libya. In line with agreements reached following the meeting of the Friends of Libya in Paris on 2 September 2011, the UN will lead on the post-conflict-needs assessment for the rule of law which includes transitional justice. The EU will be closely associated with this (and other) needs assessment and will consider funding follow up activities. The EU has a number of projects in the Southern Mediterranean partner countries. Without being exhaustive, the following examples can be mentioned. The EU is active with NGOs working in the field of transitional justice via the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) in Algeria. In Morocco, the EU is supporting ongoing and envisaged reforms of the judiciary in Morocco including those initiated by the recent constitutional reform (new High Council for the justice; strengthening of the Constitutional Court etc). The most visible example of EU support to transitional justice in Lebanon is the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, investigating the assassination of the Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri in 2005 and related cases. Other activities were developed in Lebanon with the cooperation of the International Centre for Transitional Justice).