means the holding of radioactive waste or spent nuclear fuel in a facility that provides for its containment, with the intention of retrieval. (15) "storage" means the holding of radioactive waste or spent nuclear fuel in an appropriate above-ground or underground facility that provides for its containment, with the intention of retrieval. Amendment 19 Article 3, paragraph 1 1. Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste are managed in such a way that individuals, society and the environment are adequately protected against radiological hazards . 1. Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste are managed without endangering human health or the environment, in particular without using processes or methods that could result in the radioactive contamination of water, soil or airspace . Amendment 4 Article 3, paragraph 3 3. Member States shall take all the necessary legislative, regulatory and administrative measures and other steps required to ensure the safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste. 3. Member States shall take all the necessary legislative, regulatory and administrative measures and other steps required to ensure the safe monitoring and management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste , including the possibility of retrieving the waste for repackaging, or the use of alternative mechanisms for safe disposal if necessary . Amendment 5 Article 3, paragraph 6 6. Member States shall ensure that there will be effective public information and, where appropriate, participation in order to achieve a high level of transparency on issues related to the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste under their jurisdiction. 6. Member States shall ensure that there will be effective public information and, where appropriate, participation in order to achieve a high level of transparency on issues related to the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste under their jurisdiction. The public shall be informed of the actions to be taken and the status of the decision-making process, and in particular of the criteria adopted for the choice of sites for final disposal. The Commission shall implement a European Programme to increase the general public awareness of nuclear waste management. Amendment 22 Article 3, paragraph 6a (new) 6a. Certain methods of disposal of radioactive waste shall be excluded for environmental reasons, including: - dumping at sea - disposal in under-sea repositories - disposal in space. Amendment 6 Article 4, paragraph 3 3. Where there is no suitable alternative to disposal, and where such a disposal option is not yet available, Member States shall integrate the following decision points into their programmes: 3. Where there is no suitable alternative to disposal, and where such a disposal option is not yet available, each Member State shall prepare and present to the Commission, no later than 2006, a detailed programme for the long-term management of all the radioactive waste types under its jurisdiction. The programme shall include all the different steps described in the Annex. Once the programme has been approved by the Council, each Member State shall fix