informed the complainant that it had adopted a proposal for an amendment of the Working Time Directive (2003/88/EC) OJ L 299, 18.11.2003, p. 9-19. and that it would examine the infringement complaint in the light of this proposal. On 2 November 2005, the complainant turned to the Ombudsman again (complaint 3453/2005/GG). He submitted that he had received no further information on the position the Commission proposed to adopt concerning his case. He took the view that the Commission was delaying the matter and ignoring the Ombudsman. He essentially repeated the allegation in his earlier complaint. In its opinion the Commission stated that it had a discretion as to whether to start or continue infringement proceedings. The complainant alleged that EU law did not envisage the possibility of disregarding laws and judgments on the grounds that the Commission proposed new rules. If the fact that such proposals had been submitted made it lawful to disregard existing law, the legal order of the European Communities was, in the complainant's view, a farce. By acting as it did, the Commission jeopardised the legal peace and deliberately distorted the law. On 12 September 2006, the Ombudsman addressed the following draft recommendation to the Commission: The Commission should deal with the complainant's infringement complaint as rapidly and as diligently as possibl e. The Ombudsman considered the following: - The fact that one directive (93/104) has been replaced by another one (2003/88) dealing with the same subject matter was not relevant for the complaint. - Under A rticle 211 of the EU Treaty it is the Commission's responsibility to ensure that measures taken by the institutions are applied. - The Commission is the guardian of the Treaties. It has stressed that this role is essential to the interests of European citizens and it has recognised the importance of the rule of law. Therefore, it is good administrative practice to deal with infringement complaints as rapidly and diligently as possible. - The Commission proposed to deal with the infringement complaint in the light of its proposal for an amendment of the relevant directive. Apparently the Commission assumed that Article 211 of the EC Treaty did not require it to ensure the application of a Directive which is in the process of being amended. - Directives 93/104 and 2000/88 both were in force and there was no rule or principle that would allow the Commission to disregard its duty under Article 211. - The Commission in the case of an infringement has discretion as to whether or not to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice. However, this does not entitle it to postpone indefinitely reaching a conclusion on a complaint on the grounds that applicable law may be amended some time in the future. - The Commission's failure to deal with the complainant's infringement complaint within a reasonable period of time constituted maladministration. In its detailed opinion the Commission maintained that it had an established discretion whether to pursue infringement procedures against Member States, as well as over the way in which it managed such procedures. Therefore,