in 2001): the Coal and Steel Research Fund will have an annual budget of only € 45 million unless its assets are augmented through contributions from new Member States. Alternatively, coal and steel research could be increased under the Community framework programme. The rapporteur would be in favour of the first option. Considering the importance of these two sectors in some Central and Eastern European countries, such as Poland, Romania and the Czech Republic, it would seem justified that the accessing countries contribute to the assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund, as they will be the main beneficiaries of post-ECSC activities as well as of the modernisation and restructuring programmes financed by the EU. Consequently, the rapporteur suggests to include an enlargement clause in the ECSC framework decision which would allow the revision of funds available under the Research Fund. Under this clause, it should be possible to reconsider also the proposed ratio of appropriations dedicated for coal and steel research (27.2% and 72.8%, respectively) as the importance of the coal sector will grow considerably as a result of enlargement. Finally, the rapporteur proposes to set up a mechanism, whereby Central and Eastern European coal and steel companies that have restructured their production plants and made them more environmentally-friendly could have the right to participate in the activities of the Fund already before their respective governments have paid their contributions to the Fund. This could provide a powerful incentive to speed up the efforts to restructure production plants and clean up the environment in the candidate countries. The rapporteur considers that these points should be included to the agenda to be discussed between the Parliament and the Council so as to reach an agreement before the Council sets its political orientations on post-ECSC arrangements. 12 September 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRY, EXTERNAL TRADE, RESEARCH AND ENERGY for the Committee on Budgets on the proposal for a Council decision on establishing the measures necessary for the implementation of the Protocol, annexed to the Treaty of Nice, on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty and on the Research Fund for Coal and Steel ( COM(2000) 520 - COM(2001) 121 – C5‑0165/2001 – 2001/0061(CNS)) and the proposal for a Council decision laying down multiannual financial guidelines for managing the assets of the "ECSC in liquidation" and, on completion of the liquidation, the "Assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund" ( COM(2000) 520 + COM(2001) 121 – C5‑0166/2001 – 2000/0363(CNS)) Draftsman: Ralf Linkohr PROCEDURE The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy appointed Rolf Linkohr draftsman at its meeting of 2 May 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 27 August and 12 September 2001. At the last meeting it adopted the following amendments by 28 votes, with 7 abstentions. The following were present for the vote: Carlos Westendorp y Cabeza, chairman; Nuala Ahern and Peter Michael Mombaur, vice-chairmen; Rolf Linkohr, draftsman; Ward Beysen (for Nicholas Clegg), Guido Bodrato, Yves Butel, Gérard Caudron, Giles Bryan Chichester, Willy C.E.H. De Clercq, Concepció Ferrer, Francesco