to four years, and a period of three months from the forwarding of implementing measures for their examination, and reaffirmed that full transparency would be ensured throughout the entire procedure for the adoption of implementing measures. Whilst Parliament was thus granted a certain equivalence of treatment in terms of what might be considered a right of call back by the Commission, it should be pointed out that, in its statement, the Commission confined itself to taking 'the utmost account of Parliament’s position'. In contrast, it did not hesitate to give a formal undertaking in Stockholm vis-à-vis the Council to avoid going against the predominant view within the Council. However, Parliament, fully conscious both of what was that at stake in terms of an integrated financial services market in Europe and of its role as co‑legislator, decided not to oppose the Lamfalussy approach in the area of securities. Subsequently in 2002, at the request of the Ecofin Council, the Economic and Finance Committee prepared a report on financial regulation, supervision and stability, proposing that the Lamfalussy process be extended to all financial sectors and no longer limited only to securities, with in particular the setting up of advisory and regulatory committees in the areas of banking and insurance and the setting up within the Economic and Finance Committee of a financial services committee responsible for monitoring general developments on financial markets. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs debated these proposals at length, leading to the adoption of two resolutions in plenary on 21 November 2002. Parliament did not reject the principle of the possible extension of the Lamfalussy process, but made it strictly conditional on the granting of a 'call back' clause for measures for the implementation of basic legislative acts, insisting that, in our capacity as co‑legislator, we must have identical rights to those enjoyed by the Council. It is also essential to point out that the right of call back which we are demanding at the Community level exists in one form or another in all of the Member States and in the majority of third countries, including the United States. Where delegated legislative measures are concerned, national parliaments have either a right of revocation, or a right of legislative initiative the effect of which is equivalent to call back. At present the European Parliament has neither. We also considered that the extension of the Lamfalussy process to banking and insurance did not have the same urgency as was the case with the securities sector. The first legislative texts in this area would concern the implementation of the Basle II accords which were not due to be adopted until the end of 2004 or during 2005. A final argument is that, objectively, we do not have the genuine experience required to evaluate the Lamfalussy process, given that it comprises four levels and that to date the first series of implementing measures has only just been published (December 2003), and only in the case of one directive, the market abuse directive. 2) Commission proposal Irrespective of the above considerations, the Commission