Commission and to each of the other institutions. He shall arrange for their publication in the Official Journal in the series appropriate to acts of a legislative character. 2. The committee responsible shall report to Parliament at least annually on the action taken by the institutions in response to the comments accompanying the discharge decisions and the other comments contained in Parliament's resolutions concerning the implementation of expenditure. 3. On the basis of a report by the committee responsible for budgetary control, the President, acting on behalf of Parliament, may bring an action before the Court of Justice against the institution concerned, pursuant to Article 232 of the EC Treaty, for failure to comply with the obligations deriving from the comments accompanying the discharge decision or the other resolutions concerning implementation of expenditure. ANNEX VI Powers and responsibilities of standing committees Adopted by decision of Parliament of 29 January 2004. I. Committee on Foreign Affairs Committee responsible for: 1. the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the European security and defence policy (ESDP). In this context the committee is assisted by a subcommittee on security and defence; 2. relations with other EU institutions and bodies, the UNO and other international organisations and interparliamentary assemblies for matters falling under its responsibility; 3. the strengthening of political relations with third countries, particularly those in the immediate vicinity of the Union, by means of major cooperation and assistance programmes or international agreements such as association and partnership agreements; 4. the opening, monitoring and concluding of negotiations concerning the accession of European States to the Union; 5. issues concerning human rights, the protection of minorities and the promotion of democratic values in third countries. In this context the committee is assisted by a subcommittee on human rights. Without prejudice to the relevant rules, members from other committees and bodies with responsibilities in this field shall be invited to attend the meetings of the subcommittee. The committee coordinates the work of joint parliamentary committees and parliamentary cooperation committees as well as that of the interparliamentary delegations and ad hoc delegations and election observation missions falling within its remit. II. Committee on Development Committee responsible for: 1. the promotion, implementation and monitoring of the development and cooperation policy of the Union, notably: (a) political dialogue with developing countries, bilaterally and in the relevant international organisations and interparliamentary fora, (b) aid to, and cooperation agreements with, developing countries, (c) promotion of democratic values, good governance and human rights in developing countries; 2. matters relating to the ACP-EU Partnership Agreement and relations with the relevant bodies; 3. Parliament's involvement in election observation missions, when appropriate in cooperation with other relevant committees and delegations. The committee coordinates the work of the interparliamentary delegations and ad hoc delegations falling within its remit. III. Committee on International Trade Committee responsible for: matters relating to the establishment and implementation of the Union's common commercial policy and its external economic relations, in particular: 1. financial, economic and trade relations with third countries and regional organisations; 2. measures of technical harmonisation or standardisation in fields