third‑country national has resided legally in an EU Member State for five years, he/she may acquire long‑term resident status and consequently the right to reside in another EU Member State, K. whereas immigration on economic grounds represents a challenge to the European Union which calls for a common approach rather than a strictly national view of the migration issue, L. whereas immigration has proven to have positive effects on the labour market (dynamism) and should therefore be welcomed as an opportunity, rather than defined as a security issue, M. whereas economic migration policies should be linked to the Lisbon Strategy and the European Employment Strategy, N. convinced that measures to regulate legal immigration and integration must be accompanied by measures to secure external borders, a rigorous return policy and measures to combat illegal immigration and human trafficking and the exploitation of immigrants in illegal employment, O. convinced that a successful policy of legal immigration also depends on the implementation of a comprehensive and a more pro-active strategy to achieve full integration, covering a range of social, economic and civic measures, as well as introduction programmes and language training, given that immigration and integration policies must not be considered separately, P. whereas it is essential to guarantee full respect for the right to family life for all immigrants legally resident on EU territory, pursuant to the European Convention on Human Rights, and whereas it is necessary to revise Council Directive 2003/86/EC of 22 September 2003 on the right to family reunification OJ L 251, 3.10.2003, p. 12. in order to ensure that this right is respected, Q. aware that cooperation between the European Union and its Member States and countries of origin is of major importance and needs to be accompanied by a genuine policy for codevelopment, R. whereas all Member States should ratify the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, S. whereas illegal employment is the greatest draw for illegal immigration, and therefore Member States should step up efforts to tackle illegal employment and to deter and punish persons who employ illegal migrants, 1. Regrets that the Council has decided to maintain unanimity and the consultation procedure in the whole area of legal immigration; believes, on the contrary, that only by means of the codecision procedure will it be possible to adopt effective and transparent legislation in that field; 2. Recalls that migrants have contributed, and are contributing, to the prosperity and the economic, cultural and social development of the EU's Member States; 3. Considers that economic migration is a positive human phenomenon which has always promoted the development of civilisations and cultural and technological exchanges; 4. Regrets that the Council has not yet managed to adopt a common immigration policy, and has concentrated essentially on the punitive aspect (readmission agreements, police checks at borders, etc); 5. Points out that the effective development of a common migration policy with due regard for fundamental rights and international human rights obligations is a priority goal of European integration and has been notably reiterated