Structural Funds or under the 2000-2006 and 2000-2007 programming periods under Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 of 17 May 1999 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) and amending and repealing certain regulations. - plans and programmes falling under the 2000-2006 programming period under Council Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999 of 21 June 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds or under the 2000-2006 and 2000-2007 programming periods under Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999 of 17 May 1999 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) and amending and repealing certain regulations . However, all future plans and programmes under these or new Community regulations shall be subject to the requirements of this Directive. (Amendment 11) Article 4(3) 3. Where plans and programmes form part of a hierarchy, Member States shall, with a view to avoiding duplication of the assessment, take into account the fact that the assessment will be carried out, in accordance with this Directive , at different levels of the hierarchy. 3. Where plans and programmes form part of a hierarchy, Member States shall, with a view to avoiding duplication of the assessment, define the level at which the assessment will be carried out, in accordance with this Directive. The aims, content and scope of this Directive (in particular Article 3 thereof) shall remain unaffected by this. (Amendment 14) Article 6(2) 2. The authorities referred to in paragraph 3 and the public referred to in paragraph 4 shall be given an early and effective opportunity within appropriate time frames to express their opinion on the draft plan or programme and the accompanying environmental report before the adoption of the plan or programme or its submission to the legislative procedure. 2. The authorities referred to in paragraph 3 and the public referred to in paragraph 4 shall be given an early and effective opportunity within an appropriate time frame to be defined by the Member States to express their opinion on the draft plan or programme and the accompanying environmental report before the adoption of the plan or programme or its submission to the legislative procedure. (Amendment 15) Article 6(4) 4. Member States shall identify the public for the purposes of paragraph 2, including relevant non-governmental organisations, such as those promoting environmental protection and other organisations concerned. 4. Member States shall identify the public for the purposes of paragraph 2, including those affected or likely to be affected by, or having an interest in, the decision-making process, including non-governmental organisations, such as those promoting environmental protection and other organisations concerned. (Amendment 16) Article 7(1) 1. Where a Member State considers that the implementation of a plan or programme being prepared in relation to its territory is likely to have significant effects on the environment in another Member State, or where a Member State likely to be significantly affected so requests, the Member State in whose territory the plan or programme is being prepared shall, before its adoption or submission to the legislative procedure, forward a copy