Wednesday Plenary: N.Korea, Lahti summit, passenger data, shoe imports Institutions 2006-10-12 - 16:53 Javier Solana. "North Korea is a threat to peace…" Day 1 of plenary saw universal condemnation by MEPs of North Korea's nuclear test and fears it could lead to instability and an arms race. There was also condemnation of the murder of Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya with EP President Borrell leading the tributes. MEPs debated energy, immigration and innovation - 3 issues on the agenda when EU leaders meet next week. A recent deal with the US on the transfer of air passenger data and curbs on Asian shoe imports got mixed reactions. MEPs unite to condemn North Korean test The recent nuclear test by North Korea has provoked international outrage and fears of a destabilising arms race in the region. Javier Solana, the EU's foreign policy representative, opened the debate describing the regime as a "threat to peace and security". He said that the UN Security Council "had to act as other countries will be watching". The need for the EU to support the UN and for the international community to act as one was stressed by all speakers. José Ignacio Salafranca for the European People's Party urged the consideration of sanctions and urged leaders not to forget Iran in any multilateral response. For the Socialist group Martin Schulz said we should distinguish between a "crazy dictatorship and the starvation of it people". He contrasted the dialogue of the Clinton years with the cutting of contact under President Bush. István Szent-Iványi for the Liberals said that North Korean threats and intimidation must not be allowed to succeed while Gérard Onesta for the Greens described the country as "the biggest asylum on the world". Energy, innovation and illegal immigration top Lahti agenda Next week EU leaders gather informally at Lahti in Finland. Europe's energy needs, ways of boosting innovation and illegal immigration are on the agenda. EU leaders will have dinner with President Putin and many MEPs urged EU leaders to raise the Politkovskaya murder with him. As holders of the EU's Presidency, Finland are eager to highlight technology and innovation. Their minister for European affairs Paula Lehtomäki introduced the summit agenda and told MEPs that in innovation policy "words must become deeds". European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso warned MEPs that Europe was falling increasing behind in research. He wants to push ahead with a proposed European Institute of Technology. For the political groups the meeting with President Putin and Europe's dependence on Russian oil and gas are key issues. For the European People's Party, Françoise Grossetête condemned the murder of the Russian journalist. She struck a sceptical note and feared that innovation policy would not be realised and be cut with "the budget axe". Finally she said that legislation must offer opportunities not red tape. Martin Schultz for the Socialists said despite everything, "Russia is still an essential partner" and "we can't preach to Russia". Leader of the Liberals Graham Watson said Russia was now "tarnished" and Europe should prepare for a future without Russian oil and