suggested that, against official warnings, she had provided criminals with state subsidies for a tanker cleaning facility in Rotterdam harbour. The Commissioner-designate replied that Mr Van Buitenen's allegations were "unfounded and nonsensical" , emphasising that she had never taken any bribes and would never do so. She also pointed out that she was backed by both the Dutch government and Mr Barroso. Replying to Toine MANDERS (ALDE/ADLE, NL), Mrs Kroes said she had not been premature in drawing up a code of conduct but that she had wanted to exclude any possible misunderstanding and wanted to face the Parliament with a clean slate. Mr Manders remarked that nominations to high positions always attracted slander. Competition policy Asked whether she would continue the restructuring of competition policy launched by current Commissioner Mario Monti, she said that the reforms made so far needed to be implemented, but that she would definitely look at any new challenges. In answer to Ieke VAN DEN BURG (PES, NL), who wanted to know if she would help shape a policy to enhance corporate responsibility, Mrs Kroes said that concrete measures for stimulating knowledge, the protection of the environment and employment were essential, if only to provide jobs for younger generations and that she would take account of that in her policy area. To a question by Karin RIIS-JØRGENSEN (ALDE/ADLE, DK), Mrs Kroes said she saw the need to speed up procedures in merger cases but she was not sure whether a special judicial panel would be the best way to do that. Ian HUDGHTON (Greens/EFA, UK) asked Mrs Kroes about a decision by current Commissioner Monti to allow €6 billion in state aid to the energy sector, to the detriment of renewable energy. Mrs Kroes said it would be inappropriate to go into Mr Monti's decisions but that in general she felt more account should be taken of environmental issues. As regards mergers in the services sector, a question raised by Eoin RYAN (UEN, IRL), Mrs Kroes said that big mergers did not always lead to unfair competition but that they might cause problems and thus should be looked at closely. The candidate Commissioner was bombarded throughout the hearing with questions on her attitude regarding a need for liberalisation of services of general interest. Although Mrs Kroes stressed her commitment to fair competition and seemed to favour more competition in universal services, she promised to continue the work begun by her predecessor Mario Monti and did not seem convinced that there was a need for a framework law for this sector. 28.9.2004 Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Chair: Pervenche BERÈS (PES, FR) Press enquiries: Marjory van den Broeke - tel. (32-2) 284 4304 email: mvandenbroeke@europarl.eu.int Elina Viilup - tel. (32-2) 283 1250 email: eviilup@europarl.eu.int Danny de Paepe - tel. (32-2) 284 2531 email: ddepaepe@europarl.eu.int Ton Huyssoon - tel. (32-2) 284 2408 email: thuyssoon@europarl.eu.int Hoorzitting met Neelie Kroes (Mededingingsbeleid) In de reeks hoorzittingen van het Europees Parlement met de kandidaat-commissarissen was het dinsdagmiddag de beurt aan Neelie KROES, verantwoordelijk voor het mededingingsbeleid. Onder voorzitterschap van Pervenche BERÈS (PES,