Question for written answer E-002351/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Thijs Berman (S&D) (14 March 2011) Subject: Trade unions in Bangladesh (follow-up to Question E‑9447/2010) This is a follow-up to Question E‑9447/2010 on the position of trade unions in Bangladesh. In its answer, the Commission mentioned the Better Work and Standards (BEST) Programme as a tool for improving working conditions in the fisheries, textile and clothing industries. This programme consists of three components, but the two components relating to the fisheries sector do not mention workers’ rights. The United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), which is the Commission’s partner in the BEST Programme, has indicated that it works with a local NGO on personal hygiene and livelihood; this does not constitute workers’ rights, however. This is not in line with the Country Strategy Paper (CSP) for Bangladesh, Chapter 5 of which states several times that the EU should promote respect for labour standards and decent work for all. Nor is it in line with Article 10 of the cooperation agreement with Bangladesh, which states that ‘The parties acknowledge the necessity of safeguarding the basic rights of workers by taking account of the principles in the relevant International Labour Organisation instruments’, including freedom of association and the right to organise and bargain collectively. Furthermore, according to our information UNIDO cooperates only with the employers’ federation, and not with trade unions or working groups. Does the Commission agree that: 1. decent work in general, and rights at work specifically, should be a component of the BEST Programme? 2. if so, it would make sense to involve the International Labour Organisation as well as UNIDO? 3. given that trade union members are being intimidated by employers with which UNIDO cooperates, the programme should actively involve not only the employers’ federation, but also worker groups and trade unions? 4. the USA appears to be more effective in using the Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) arrangement to support the Decent Work Agenda objective relating to rights at work? Could the Commission explain, therefore, why it has decided not to use the Everything But Arms (EBA) initiative as a means to promote rights at work?