are stolen. Second, draft legislation to make terrorist misuse of the internet punishable EU-wide. Third, legislation for an EU system of passenger name records, since "the Union is at least as much a potential target of a terrorist attack as the United States and the use of PNR is an important law enforcement tool" for protecting EU citizens. Fourth, a report evaluating the implementation by the Member States of the EU framework decision on terrorism. The Commissioner stressed the need for mutual trust and exchange of information between Member States to combat terrorism, arguing that this required both an appropriate legal framework and the promotion of shared international experiences. In conclusion, he said, "we should not forget that an overwhelming majority of our citizens - 84% according to a recent Eurobarometer poll - are strongly in favour of EU action to combat terrorism and organised crime". Naturally any such action must be line with fundamental rights and Article 6 of the Treaty. Political group speakers Speaking for the EPP-ED, Manfred WEBER (DE) said that the recent arrests in Denmark and Germany had shown that there was a still a lot of work to do. Terrorists, he said, used networks and the Internet to communicate and therefore there was a need to work at an EU level. He called for a an assessment of current laws on the fight against terrorism as well as a new impetus. The roots of terrorism need also to be addressed at the cultural level. Jan Marinus WIERSMA (NL) for the PES group that there should be co-operation at the EU level. It was paramount to tackle "recruitment and radicalisation and the combating of religious extreme right-wing groups" at the EU level. The EU should examine a Dutch initiative where funding was made available to focus on those who may be susceptible to radicalisation. Graham WATSON (UK), speaking for the ALDE group, said: "Once again laws that take away our freedoms risk entering by the back door. I do not argue that counter terrorism laws are unnecessary. The arrest yesterday of three people in Germany, the arrest this morning of another three in Denmark shows the continuing threat that terrorists pose to our society. My Group is united in its belief that we need more judicial cooperation to make EUROPOL and EUROJUST as effective as possible. Here in Parliament we should be insisting on sunset clauses for anti-terror laws so that legislation susceptible to abuse does not remain on the statute books any longer than necessary. Karl Popper once said, 'We must plan for freedom, and not only for security, if for no other reason than only freedom can make security secure'." For the UEN group, Konrad SZYMAŃSKI (PL) said: "Since the terrorist attacks in New York, Madrid and London, the co-operation between the Member States has improved. The concerns relating to data sharing should not block this co-operation. International terrorism uses armed movements in an unprecedented manner. This is why it is necessary to apply legislation aiming to fight against terrorism". Speaking on behalf of the Greens/EFA,