Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (16 April 2007) The protection of the rights of the child is of the highest importance for the Commission. This was illustrated, inter alia , by the adoption of the communication ‘Towards an EU strategy on the rights of the child’ on 4 July 2006 COM(2006)367 final. . Following the communication, a European Forum for the Rights of the Child will be launched in June 2007 and serve as a further instrument for joint effort and discussion. The forum will bring together representatives from the Member States, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), International organisations and the Ombudspersons for children. The Commission does not collect the specific data referred to by the Honourable Member. However, in relation to the prevention of sexual abuse and exploitation of children, the Commission has regularly reviewed progress and pushed for action at European level. A number of decisions have been taken, in particular the framework decision on combating sexual exploitation of children and child pornography of 22 December 2003 OJ L 13, 20.1.2004. . It is important to underline that Article 5(3) of the framework decision requests Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure that a person, who has been convicted for the offences concerning sexual exploitation of children, be temporarily or permanently prevented from exercising professional activities related to the supervision of children. Pursuant to Article 12 of the framework decision, the Commission will shortly adopt a report regarding its implementation by Member States. When evaluating the implementation of the Council framework decision, the Commission will examine the need to further strengthen the legal framework specifically addressing child exploitation and related offences. In addition, the Commission is supporting efforts to create an international child pornography online image database which would be an effective tool for law enforcement in identifying victims and offenders of child sexual exploitation online around the world. The Commission also provides funding under the programme Safer Internet Plus (2005‑08) for the European network of hotlines allowing users to report illegal content on the Internet, including child pornography. Furthermore, the Commission is considering to take initiatives in cooperation with payment providers and the financial sector in order to prevent commercial websites involving the sexual exploitation of children from receiving payments and enjoy the proceeds of their activity. Possible measures may be announced later in 2007. European funding is also available to finance projects in this area, in particular the Daphne programme, which in 2007 enters into its third phase ‘Daphne III’. The programme aims at combating all types of violence against children, young people and women and to protect the victims and groups at risk through financial support to transnational networks of non-profit organisations that develop measures and actions to fight violence. The Daphne III programme will have an average annual budget of EUR 16 million for the period 2007‑13. In the field of sexual abuse and exploitation of children, Daphne has supported research, studies and surveys that provide important insights into the nature and scope of the problem of sexual violence against children