minimise emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. Article 4 Containment 1. Owners and operators shall take all measures that are technically and economically feasible to prevent and minimise emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. 2. Before putting refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump systems into service, all components and the whole system shall undergo standardised tests defined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 15(2). 3. Operators of stationary refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump equipment and fire protection systems not designed in accordance with the ISO 14520 standard and containing fluorinated greenhouse gases shall ensure that, when they are put into service and, subsequently, in accordance with paragraph 5, systems including at least one circuit containing 3kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases, are inspected by a duly authorised company or person. 4 . Subject to paragraph 5 , the owner shall ensure that stationary - and mobile, with the exception of the systems referred to in Article 10 - refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump equipment and fire protection systems containing fluorinated greenhouse gases , except equipment and systems exclusively for personal use, shall be inspected for leakage after maintenance and on a regular basis according to the following schedule: a) equipment including at least one independently charged circuit containing 3kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases shall be inspected by accredited companies/certified personnel at least once every year; b) equipment containing 30kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases shall be inspected by accredited companies/certified personnel four times per year; c) equipment containing 300kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases shall be inspected by accredited companies/certified personnel monthly. In the case of point (a), where leakage is detected and rectified, an additional inspection shall be carried out one month later. In the case of points (b) and (c), where no leakage is detected on three consecutive inspections, the frequency of inspections shall be halved to six months and two months respectively. In the case of fire protection equipment where there is an existing inspection regime in place to meet the ISO 14520 standard, those inspections may also fulfill the obligations of this Regulation provided they are at least as frequent. 5 . Where an integral or mobile leakage detection system is in place so as to monitor areas where leakage is likely , the inspections referred to in paragraph 4(b) shall be carried out twice a year and those referred to in paragraph 4(c) four times a year. The frequency of inspections shall be reduced to once a year in the case of paragraph 4(b) and twice a year in the case of paragraph 4(c) if no leakage is detected during inspections in three consecutive years. 6 . Operators of stationary refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump equipment and fire protection systems including at least one independently charged circuit containing 300kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases shall install leakage detection systems to monitor the areas where leakage is likely . 7 . Owners and operators of stationary refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump equipment and fire protection systems containing 3kg or more of fluorinated greenhouse gases shall maintain records