No 1049/2001 and the procedures agreed between the institutions, in particular in connection with the interinstitutional committee provided for in Article 15(2) of that Regulation. 3.1 Commission - COM documents - SEC documents - Decisions by the College of Commissioners - 'Comitology' acts (documents relating to Parliament's right of scrutiny, draft acts, agendas, minutes, opinions and documents for information) 3.2 Council - Documents and communications forwarded in connection with legislative and budgetary procedures, procedures for discharge, appointments and the conclusion of agreements 3.3 European Central Bank - Communications 3.4 European Investment Bank - Communications 3.5 Committee of the Regions - Communications 3 European Economic and Social Committee - Communications 3.7 Court of Auditors - Communications 3.8 Interinstitutional relations - Interinstitutional agreements 4. Third-party documents 4.1 Documents from Member States 4.2 Petitions (subject to petitioners' agreement) 4.3 Official correspondence 5. Administrative documents Official letters - secretariat notifications of Parliament decisions ANNEX XVI Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 on public access to documents European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 255(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission OJ C 177 E, 27.6.2000, p. 70. , Acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty Opinion of the European Parliament of 3 May 2001 and Council Decision of 28 May 2001. , Whereas: (1) The second subparagraph of Article 1 of the Treaty on European Union enshrines the concept of openness, stating that the Treaty marks a new stage in the process of creating an ever closer union among the peoples of Europe, in which decisions are taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen. (2) Openness enables citizens to participate more closely in the decision-making process and guarantees that the administration enjoys greater legitimacy and is more effective and more accountable to the citizen in a democratic system. Openness contributes to strengthening the principles of democracy and respect for fundamental rights as laid down in Article 6 of the EU Treaty and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (3) The conclusions of the European Council meetings held at Birmingham, Edinburgh and Copenhagen stressed the need to introduce greater transparency into the work of the Union institutions. This Regulation consolidates the initiatives that the institutions have already taken with a view to improving the transparency of the decision-making process. (4) The purpose of this Regulation is to give the fullest possible effect to the right of public access to documents and to lay down the general principles and limits on such access in accordance with Article 255(2) of the EC Treaty. (5) Since the question of access to documents is not covered by provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, the European