15 000–20 000 per year, I. whereas, for the first time, more mines are being destroyed and cleared than laid, J. whereas government use of anti-personnel mines has declined further, with only Myanmar/Burma and Russia continuing to lay new mines, and whereas armed non-state actors decreased their use of anti-personnel mines or improvised explosive devices, although they still use them in at least eight States, K. whereas, as of December 2007, 35 armed non-state actors have committed themselves to a total ban on anti-personnel mines through the 'Deed of Commitment under Geneva Call for Adherence to a Total Ban on Anti-Personnel Mines and for Cooperation in Mine Action', L. whereas it is estimated that 78 countries still have some 250 million landmines stockpiled, and whereas there is evidence that anti-vehicle mines are stockpiled in over 15 and that 13 states not parties to the Ottawa Convention still produce or retain the right to produce anti-personnel mines, M. whereas stockpiles of APMs must be destroyed as soon as possible, preferably before the end of the four-year limit stipulated by the Ottawa Convention, N. whereas nine States Parties to the Ottawa Convention have yet to destroy their stockpiles within four years of acceding to the Convention, O. whereas extra support must be given to the States Parties to the Ottawa Convention in order to encourage the maximum number of State Parties to fulfil their obligation to clear all mines within 10 years of acceding to the Convention, P. whereas since the beginning of the nineties, the international community has allocated over USD 3.4 billion to mine action programmes (mine clearance and victim aid) and the European Union has spent nearly € 335 million, Q. whereas nevertheless expenditure on such programmes worldwide sank to € 250 million in 2005, and although it increased to € 316 million in 2006, the process is far too slow, R. whereas the European Union is committed to long-term leadership on and funding for mine action in order to achieve full universalisation and implementation of the Treaty, S. whereas the Commission in 2007 committed a total of € 33 million to mine action in 10 countries (Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Cambodia, Cyprus, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, Jordan, Lebanon, Senegal and Sudan), T. whereas the Strategy Paper 2005-2007 highlights the benefits of a specific APL budget line in order to provide the capacity to 'respond to acute and unplanned needs', 'to reinforce and strengthen the efficiency and effectiveness of mine actions undertaken within long-term humanitarian and socioeconomic development programmes' in cases where 'the CSP, NIP or corresponding instruments cannot legally support APL-related activities or in cases of political sensitivity or interest for the EC', and to support non-governmental organisations, U. whereas nevertheless the APL budget line of the Commission was repealed by the Instrument for Stability at the end of 2006 and the EU Mine Action Strategy and Programming comes to an end this year and will be replaced by programming performed almost entirely by EU delegations on the basis of guidelines to be drafted by the Commission and by integrating mine action into Country