in Community subsidy from 10% to 20%, to lead to more rapid completion of the relevant priority projects. * As a rule, only the development stage of priority projects on the energy networks should qualify for higher financial aid without this leading to any increase in the Community funds set aside for energy networks in the 2003-2006 financial perspectives. * This aid is in respect of priority projects on the energy networks carried out in own (unbundled) companies, which are necessary in the interests of the European economy but unprofitable in business terms and which do not distort competition between enterprises. 3.) The proposed amendments A large number of amendments adopted by the EP in the first reading (notably amendments 2, 3, 9, 22, 13, 14, 15, 19, 20, 21) have been accepted by the Council literally. Furthermore, the rapporteur welcomes the approach adopted by the Council to recast the decision as this will contribute to more clarity and legal certainty. It would be desireable that this approach be adopted by the Commission for future proposals wich concern extensive amendments of an existing Communicty act. The following main ideas which have not been adopted by the common position have been considered in the framework of the present recommendation for the 2nd reading: 1.) The Commission proposes to introduce the possibility of updating the specifications mentioned in Annex III in accordance with the comitology procedure referred to in Article 9, paragraph 2 (regulatory procedure). According to the Commission this flexibility is needed in order to react to new developments. This was considered carefully by the EP. There must be a balance between the need to react quickly to new developments concerning the projects and the need for an efficient control by the co-legislator (the EP) especially as the priority axes and projects set out in Annex I are very largely defined. A possible compromise is therefore proposed in amendment 4. 2.) The Commission proposes to extend the reporting period for the implementation reports from 2 to 4 years since, in pursuance of Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 (rules for granting Community financial aid for TEN), it already submits an annual report which contains information on the progress of projects. In order to ensure an efficient control by the co-legislator (the EP), it is not acceptable to extend the reporting period for the implementation reports from 2 to 4 years. This period is certainly too long. The annual report issued in pursuance of Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 (rules for granting Community financial aid for TEN) concerns a different legislative act, which does not define the projects of community interest and those to be considered as priority projects (see amendment 6 and 7).