a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 2 – point d d) fishing vessels appearing in a list of presumed IUU vessels adopted by a Regional Fisheries Management Organisation notified in accordance with Article 29. d) fishing vessels appearing in a list of presumed IUU vessels adopted by a Regional Fisheries Management Organisation notified in accordance with Article 29 which have not yet been included in the Community list of IUU fishing vessels referred to in Article 26 . Amendment 28 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. Such inspection shall comply with the rules and objectives previously laid down by the Commission and be uniformly conducted and implemented in the different Member States. Each Member State shall create its database, on the basis of criteria set out by the Commission, in which all inspections carried out on its territory shall be recorded. The Member States shall grant the Commission access to their databases on request. Amendment 29 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 Article 10 – Inspectors deleted 1. Member States shall issue an identity document to each inspector. Inspectors shall carry and produce this document when inspecting a fishing vessel. 2. Member States shall ensure that inspectors carry out their duties in accordance with the rules laid down in this section. Amendment 30 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 1 – introductory part 1. If an inspector has serious reason to believe that a fishing vessel has engaged in IUU fishing activity in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 3, he shall: 1. If the information gathered during the inspection gives the inspector sufficient grounds to suspect that a fishing vessel has engaged in IUU fishing activity in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 3, he shall: Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 1 – point a a) note the infringement in the inspection report; a) note the presumed infringement in the inspection report; Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 1 – point a a (new) (aa) halt landing, transhipment or on-board processing operations; Amendment 33 Proposal for a regulation Article 13 - paragraph 1 1. The importation into the Community of fishery products obtained from illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing shall be prohibited. 1. The importation into the Community of fishery products obtained from illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 3 shall be prohibited. Amendment 36 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 4 4. Any person shall have the right to appeal against decisions taken by the competent authorities pursuant to paragraph 1 or 2 which concern him directly and individually. The right of appeal shall be exercised according to the provisions in force in the Member State concerned. 4. Any natural or legal person shall have the right to appeal against decisions taken by the competent authorities pursuant to paragraph 1 or 2 which concern him directly and individually. The right of appeal shall be exercised according to the provisions