by all donors, and welcomes the EU's full support for the UN and its commitment to funding OCHA in the region; 9. Calls on the UN Secretary-General to appoint UN humanitarian coordinators for each of the countries affected by the tsunami, with clear responsibilities to direct all other UN agencies responding to the crisis; 10. Underlines that the UN must fulfil the challenge to coordinate on the ground through assessing priorities and allocating responsibilities to the best-placed agencies, including NGOs; stresses that the UN must prioritise a coordinated vaccination and hygiene campaign against cholera and other water-borne diseases; 11. Criticises Burma's military junta for sealing parts of the country's coastline and for its general refusal to cooperate with the international community, which will have a detrimental effect on its own victims of the tsunami; 12. Strongly supports the role of the EU Presidency in leading internal coordination of the relief efforts of the EU and its Member States; 13. Calls for the establishment of a comprehensive and effective early warning system to be developed without delay in the Indian Ocean, as well as in other regions vulnerable to tsunami and other natural disasters; 14. Calls for the international community, led by the UN, to develop an effective and coordinated plan for action in the event of future disasters, so that such responses are not ad hoc and a coordinated response can be better achieved in the future; 15. Welcomes the extraordinary meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council convened by the Luxembourg Presidency on January 7, involving the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, the Ministers for Development Cooperation and the Ministers of Health of the European Union; calls on the EU Member States to ensure that EU action is closely coordinated internally for the emergency relief as well as the mid- and long-term action necessary for rebuilding the affected areas; 16. Insists that the debate on debt relief should include Least Developed Countries and should cover debt swaps, and that debt relief should only be undertaken on the condition that money gained by governments from such relief must be channelled towards helping the poorest in their communities; calls, in this regard, on the EU and its Member States as well as international financial institutions to act upon this debate on the debt of those countries affected by the tsunami and write off the debt of these countries altogether as long as the aforementioned conditions are satisfied; calls, furthermore, for the EU countries to spearhead cutting the debt of all the world's poorest nations; 17. Strongly supports the call by Commissioner Michel for a second conference on the reconstruction and rehabilitation to be held in the near future in order to prompt rapid and effective rebuilding; 18. Stresses that rebuilding the affected areas must focus on improving the situation of the surviving inhabitants by aiming to reduce poverty as well as future vulnerability to tsunami; 19. Underlines that globally 1.2 billion people worldwide live in poverty, with almost a billion people malnourished, including over 150 million children under five; stresses, therefore, the