Answer given by Mr Patten on behalf of the Commission (16 January 2003) The Commission has no evidence that Morocco tries to keep the Western Sahara question off the agenda. On the contrary, the Commission can actually confirm that during his last visit to Brussels, the Moroccan Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Benaïssa, addressed this issue in an open way in his talks with the Commission representatives. The Western Sahara conflict is also on the Agenda of the United Nations Security Council, which will address this question at the end of January 2003, shortly after the United Nations Secretary General has presented a new Report on the situation in Western Sahara. The Commission's view concerning the Western Sahara conflict is that only a solution to which the parties in conflict agree will be fruitful. This is why the Commission continues to support the efforts of the United Nations Secretary General, Mr Kofi Annan, and his Personal Envoy, Mr. James Baker III, in order to bring the parties in conflict to reach a fair, lasting and mutually acceptable solution. Regarding Morocco's efforts to deny free access for journalists to the Western Sahara territories, the Commission has not received any complaint nor found any mention of this matter in the Reporters without Borders 2002 Report . Concerning the impact of oil exploration in Western Sahara on the prospect of a peaceful resolution of the conflict, the Commission considers that this issue does not seem particularly relevant to the resolution of this conflict. Other considerations about the oil exploration in Western Sahara have been thoroughly explored in the legal opinion given by the United Nations Legal Counsel on this subject, in its letterof 29 January 2002, to the President of the Security Council. The Commission is the main donor of humanitarian aid to the Sahrawis refugees through the European Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHO) in conjunction with its partner non-governmental organisations. This aid consists of food and medical aid, amounting to EUR 81 million between 1993 and 2001; and another EUR 14,3 million for Global Plan 2002. In addition, the Commission is asking the parties to adopt of confidence-building measures, such as the release of war prisoners, the facilitation of contacts and visits between members of separated families and the respect of the civil guaranties. Those measures will help create better conditions for a fruitful dialogue between the parties in conflict. At the last Ministerial Troika meeting in Algiers, on 5 June 2002, the Union transmitted simultaneously to Morocco, Algeria and the Polisario, European concerns and demands on humanitarian aspects of the Western Sahara conflict. The Union confirmed its support to the United Nations efforts to find a mutually acceptable solution, urging both parties in conflict to solve the problem of the fate of people unaccounted for and to release all those held since the start of the conflict. The Union also asked for the full respect of civil guaranties and human rights in the Western Sahara territories; and for both parties facilitate contacts and visits between members of the families separated by the conflict. Finally,