Briefing - 21-24 April 2008 - Strasbourg plenary session 2008-04-17 - 09:46 Selected highlights of the Strasbourg plenary session 21-24 April 2008 include: Budget discharge for 2006 US waiver program and new Member States Slovenian President to address the House War crimes committed by totalitarian regimes Organ donation and transplantation - what can the EU do? China's policy and its effects on Africa Price rises of food products in the EU and in developing countries Role of volunteering in contributing to economic and social cohesion Situation in Zimbabwe - human rights Monday 21 April 2008 MEPs will debate a hearing of the Commission on "crimes on genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by totalitarian regimes." The hearing, held on 8 April, focused on two main issues: recognition of the crimes and reconciliation. It was organised in response to a request made by the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 19 April 2007 for a hearing on “crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by totalitarian regimes as well as those who publicly condone, deny, grossly distort or trivialise them”. The House will debate the rules for Belarusian and Ukrainian citizens to obtain visas to enter the EU/Schengen area . Marian Harkin (ALDE, IE) will be putting forward her report on the role of volunteering in contributing to economic and social cohesion . Volunteering is good for you, your community, your region's economic development and your national economy. It also helps build the "social capital" that public policies need to succeed. Over 100 million EU citizens volunteer, and every €1 spent on supporting them generates a return of between €3 and €8 - a contribution that should appear in national accounts, says a report by the Regional Development Committee. Proposed changes in the rules governing the European Ombudsman's access to information held by EU bodies and evidence given to him by EU civil servants, are set out in a report, proposed by the Constitutional Affairs Committee, on the Ombudsman's Statute. The key aim of these changes is to boost citizens' confidence in the Ombudsman's work. Parliament will debate and vote on a report on organ donation and transplantation . Reducing the organ and donor shortage is “the main challenge that EU Member States face with regard to organ transplantation”, said the Committee for Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. MEPs in the committee propose a wide range of measures, including a European donor card, to tackle problems like organ shortage, transplantation risks and organ trafficking. Tuesday 22 April 2008 Tuesday starts off with a debate on the 2006 annual report of the European Investment Bank . The committee gives clear backing to the EIB and welcomes its willingness to work with MEPs. The committee's report "congratulates the EIB on its 2006 activity report and encourages it to continue with its activities to promote the development of the European economy and foster growth, job creation, and interregional and social cohesion". It also "welcomes the EIB’s transparency and its total cooperation with Parliament". The Budgetary Control Committee is recommending that