Answer given by the High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (5 April 2011) The EEAS is aware and concerned about the worrying increase in religious tensions in Egypt. Several lives were lost in violent clashes in recent moths. The case of murder in Sharona on 30 January, as described by the Honourable Member, is one of them. More recently 13 people lost their lives in the night of 8‑9 March, when clashes between Muslims and Copts escalated following the burning of a church on 5 March. The High Representative/Vice-President expressed her concerns about rising sectarian violence in a public statement. She called on the Egyptian authorities to ensure protection of all citizens and to bring those responsible to justice and she stressed the importance of protection of the freedom of belief. During her recent visit to Cairo on 14 March, the High Representative raised this issue in her meeting with the Field Marshal Tantawi, the Head of the ruling Supreme Council of Armed Forces. It has to be noted that the military council took immediate action to ease the tension by reconstructing the burnt church. The respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of belief, is an important part of the European neighbourhood policy. It is reflected in the ENP action plan that the EU and Egypt jointly agreed to. An important part of the action plan implementation is the regular dialogue with the Egyptian authorities. The EU uses the framework of the Sub-Committees on Political Matters: Human Rights and Democracy — International and Regional Issues to discuss issues related to respect of human rights, including non-discrimination and freedom of belief. Regularly the Commission has been stressing the importance of an early adoption of a unified code for all places of worship, which would contribute to easing the tensions between various religious groups while stressing the need for state institutions to foster a climate of religious tolerance between communities. The EU condemns all forms of intolerance, discrimination and violence against persons because of their religion or belief, wherever it takes place and regardless of the religion. While continuing to promote these values with our partners, the Commission tries to avoid the polarisation of the debate by highlighting the rights or needs of certain religious groups. At the Foreign Affairs Council on 21 February, the Council expressed ‘profound concern about the increasing number of acts of religious intolerance and discrimination, as epitomised by recent violence and acts of terrorism, in various countries, against Christians and their places of worship, Muslim pilgrims and other religious communities’.