Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (29 January 2009) 1. The Water Framework Directive (WFD) 2000/60/EC OJ L 327, 22.12.2000. sets out a protection of all surface waters and groundwaters, with an obligation to prevent any deterioration of status, and to achieve good status as a rule by 2015. Amongst the obligations of the directive, Member States have to implement measures against chemical pollution. In parallel, Article 6 of Directive 2006/11/EC OJ L 64, 4.3.2006. on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the Community requires Member States to establish pollution reduction programmes for substances listed in list II of Annex I to that directive. The programmes must include environmental quality standards in accordance with EU Directives where they exist. The recently published Directive 2008/105/EC on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy OJ L 348, 24.12.2008. establishes environmental quality standards for 33 substances or groups of substances, inter alia for several pesticides. The Commission is aware of the pollution problems in the Thessaly river basin, including Pinios River, due to waste water discharges and/or intense agriculture activities. In the analysis of pressures and impacts under Article 5 and Annex II of the WFD, the Greek authorities have identified the Pinios River as being at risk of failing the objectives of the WFD. Consequently, the Greek authorities must develop the necessary measures within the river basin management plan and to achieve the WFD environmental objectives including the environmental quality standards set out in Directive 2008/105/EC. The river basin management plans and programmes of measures have to be finalised by December 2009. 2. The funding of projects for various environmental rehabilitation measures or waste water management is included in the various Operational Programmes under the new Programming period, 2007‑13, in addition to studies for monitoring water pollution. The co-financing of these types of projects can be covered either within the relevant Regional Operational Programmes, the Sectoral Operational Programme ‘Environment and Sustainable Development’ or the ‘Rural Development Programme 2007‑13’ for Greece (which is co-funded by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD)). Under the Environment and Sustainable programme, the Greek competent Authorities are planning within Priority Axis 2, ‘protection and management of water resources’ to co-finance projects with the aim of an integrated management of the water resources nationally and a more efficient protection of the quality of the water bodies. Under the Rural Development programme, under Axis 2 ‘Improving the Environment and the Countryside’, the co-funding of various eligibilities and numerous projects aiming to promote environmentally friendly practices is foreseen, such as, for instance, organic farming for crops and livestock and agri-environmental actions for the protection of water resources, including specific actions for Thessaly and the surrounding areas of Pinios River. However, it is important to underline that the selection of projects and final beneficiaries as well as their day-to-day project implementation, fall within the competence of the national authorities.