the environment; 5. measures to minimise the risks to humans, non-target species and the environment: safe working practices for storing, handling and mixing pesticides, and disposing of empty packaging, other contaminated materials and surplus pesticides (including tank mixes), whether in concentrate or dilute form; recommended way to control operator exposure (personal protection equipment) ; knowledge of all potential exposure factors including long-term exposure to pesticides in the air, exposure to vapours after application, reactivation, precipitation, pesticides transported from outdoor applications and redistributed into an indoor air environment, exposure to mixtures, pesticide residues transported on pollen or crop dust (e.g. at harvest), spreading of contaminated soil and long-range transportation; 6. procedures for preparing application equipment for work, including its calibration, and for its operation with minimum risks to the user, other humans, non-target animal and vegetal species, biodiversity , the environment and water resources; 7. use of application equipment and its maintenance, and specific spraying techniques to reduce pesticide use, drift and risks (e.g. low-volume spraying, low-drift nozzles), as well as the objectives of the technical check of sprayers in use and ways to improve spray quality; 8. emergency action to protect human health , the environment and water resources in case of accidental spillage , contamination and extreme weather events that would result in pesticide leaching risks; 9. health monitoring and access facilities to report on any incidents or unease; 10. record keeping of any use of pesticides, in accordance with the relevant legislation; 11. special care in protection areas established under Articles 6 and 7 of Directive 2000/60/EC; 12. the specific categories in which a pesticide operator may be licensed, which may include: a) agricultural pest control, b) forest pest control, c) seed treatment, d) aquatic pest control, e) right-of-way pest control, f) public health pest control, g) rodent regulatory pest control; 13. risk-based approaches which take into account the local catchment variables such as climate, soil and crop types, slopes. ANNEX II Health and Safety as well as Environmental requirements relating to the inspection of pesticide application equipment The inspection of pesticide application equipment shall cover all aspects important to achieve a high level of safety and protection of human health and the environment and full effectiveness of the application operation by ensuring proper performance of the following devices and functions, where appropriate: (1) Power transmission parts The power take-off drive shaft guard and the guard of the power input connection shall be fitted and in good condition and the protective devices and any moving or rotating power transmission parts shall not be affected in their function so as to ensure protection of the operator. (2) Pump The pump capacity shall be suited to the needs of the equipment and the pump must function properly in order to ensure a stable and reliable application rate. There shall be no leakages from the pump. (3) Agitation Agitation devices must ensure a proper recirculation in order to achieve an even concentration of the whole volume of the liquid spray mixture in the tank. (4) Spray liquid tank Spray tanks including indicator of