the Secretary of State for the purposes of its functions under the Act by a supervisory authority in a Member State other than the UK or has been obtained for those purposes by the Secretary of State or by a person acting on his behalf, in another Member State. It can be said that the scope of application of the obligation prescribed by the national provision is even broader than that prescribed by the Directive because it binds “any person” (not only persons working, or who have worked, for the competent authority). In addition, the national provision expressly specifies that “restricted information” covers not only information relating to the assurance undertakings themselves but also to information relating to executives and employees of those companies. Finally, the national provision goes further than the Directive by prescribing a penalty for those who breach the obligation not to disclose information in contravention to the conditions laid down by paragraph 1. Exchange of information between the competent authority of a Member State and other competent authorities or relevant bodies : at UK level, paragraph 3 of Schedule 2B refers to authorisations for the Secretary of State to disclose information aimed at facilitating discharge of functions by other regulatory authorities and paragraph 4 refers to other authorised disclosures aimed at facilitating discharge of functions by other relevant bodies. In line with the Directive, all authorised disclosures are to supervisory authorities, regulatory authorities or other relevant bodies expressly identified by the national legislation and in all cases the purpose of the authorisation is to allow those bodies to discharge their functions. Furthermore, national rules expressly prescribe that disclosed information shall not be used otherwise than for the expressly mentioned purposes and imposes criminal penalties for persons who use the information in contravention of the rules. Link to the ELAS case The article is relevant with regards to the exchanges (or lack thereof) of correspondence between the UK regulator and the Irish and German regulators. For further information on this point, see Part III on Regulatory Action and Part IV on Redress. WE-Conf 9 contains a list of confidential correspondence between regulators on the ELAS case. With regard to the duties of auditors, see the reference to Article 17 of the CD. Questions have been raised as to the actions of ELAS' auditors throughout the affair. However, the mandate of the EQUI committee does not explicitly cover this area. A case was brought against ELAS' previous auditors (Ernst&Young) by the new management in 2001 but was ultimately dismissed. Divergences between the 3LD and implementing provisions: the UK provision establishes that information is not “restricted information” if “it is information in the form of a summary or is "information so framed as not to enable information relating to any particular person to be ascertained from it". As it stands, the UK provision contradicts the Directive because it allows a further exception to the obligation of professional secrecy, namely, that the dissemination of information about the company “in the form of a summary” is sufficient. In contrast, what the Directive allows