Answer given by Mr Lewandowski on behalf of the Commission (3 March 2010) The Commission refers the Honourable Member to its answer to his Written Question E‑6293/09 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB/home.jsp . The Accounting Officer of the Commission validates the systems of the Directorates-General (DGs), in particular in respect of their capacity to provide accurate and reliable data to the Commission's central accounting systems. This validation has been given to all DGs except 2: — DG Justice, Freedom and Security (JLS), where there are concerns about assets being incorrectly recorded as costs; — DG External Relations (RELEX), where the management of suspense accounts in the delegations and the management of assets were not satisfactory. These weaknesses, as well as certain minor weaknesses in some other DGs, are subject to regular follow up by the Commission's accounting services. Regarding the specific measures taken to improve information provided on pre‑financing, the related cut-off times, invoices and cost claims, the Commission continues to address the issues raised and monitor the accounting work of the DGs so as to improve the accuracy of the basic accounting data, principally through initiatives such as the ongoing Accounting Quality Project. In this context, there has been increased guidance, training and follow up of the issues identified by both the Commission itself and the Court of Auditors as potential weaknesses, such as the clearing of prefinancing and the recording of cost claims. This is an ongoing process and is leading to continual improvement of the accounting data available, as evidenced by the clean opinions on the reliability of the 2007 and 2008 accounts. With regard to the Galileo project, the Court of Auditors has not criticised the accounting treatment applied by the Commission, which is in accordance with the EU's accounting rules. The Commission, both on the operational and accounting side, continues to work with all parties, in particular the European Space Agency to ensure that the proper and sufficient information is included in the EU accounts. It is of course a complex and long-term project. A first change expected from the 2008 accounts will be the inclusion of the assets of the EGNOS programme on the 2009 EU balance sheet following their transfer to the Commission during 2009. However, since the assets being developed as part of the first phase of the Galileo programme will not be transferred to the Commission until late 2010 at the earliest, no assets relating to this part of the programme can yet be included on the Commission's balance sheet. The Galileo programme will continue to be accounted for in accordance with the accounting rules in place.