France, Italy, Luxembourg, Hungary, Austria, Romania and Slovenia subsequently addressed a request to the Commission indicating that they intended to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the area of applicable law in matrimonial matters and asking the Commission to submit a proposal to the Council for that purpose . (6) Belgium , Bulgaria, Germany , Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Latvia , Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta , Austria, Portugal , Romania and Slovenia subsequently addressed a request to the Commission indicating that they intended to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the area of applicable law in matrimonial matters. On 3 March 2010 Greece withdrew its request. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7) On […] the Council adopted Decision […] authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. (7) On 12 July 2010 the Council adopted Decision 2010/405/EU authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) According to Article 328(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, when enhanced cooperation is being established, it is to be open to all Member States, subject to compliance with any conditions of participation laid down by the authorising decision. It is also to be open to them at any other time, subject to compliance with the acts already adopted within that framework, in addition to those conditions. (8) According to Article 328(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, when enhanced cooperation is being established, it is to be open to all Member States, subject to compliance with any conditions of participation laid down by the authorising decision. It is also to be open to them at any other time, subject to compliance with the acts already adopted within that framework, in addition to those conditions. The Commission and the Member States participating in enhanced cooperation should ensure that they promote participation by as many Member States as possible. This Regulation should be binding in its entirety and directly applicable only in the participating Member States in accordance with the Treaties. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 9 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (9a) The substantive scope and enacting terms of this Regulation should be consistent with Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003. However, it should not apply to marriage annulment. This Regulation should apply only to the dissolution or loosening of marriage ties. The law determined by the conflict-of-law rules of this Regulation should apply to the grounds for divorce and legal separation. Preliminary questions on issues such as legal capacity and the validity of a marriage, and on matters such as the effects of divorce or legal separation on property, name, parental responsibility, maintenance obligations or any other ancillary measures, should be determined by the conflict-of-law rules applicable in the participating Member State concerned. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10)