address to the Member States with a view to encouraging them to ensure that, within their respective territories, there are proper alternative dispute resolution schemes for financial services so that there will be no gaps, at least geographically speaking, between the Member States " (Mr DUCOULOMBIER, H9). This is confirmed by Mr MERRICKS' statement in WE 56: " Very recently, FIN-NET has asked the Commission to issue a questionnaire to national regulators about the identity and coverage of their local financial out-of court schemes. The intention is that the information gathered may encourage national regulatory bodies to fill gaps in the network – by establishing new or improving existing schemes. " Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9) stated furthermore that in the future the Commission intends to give FIN-NET a " much more prominent role in assisting the Commission to shape its policy ", since " they are privileged observers of the financial services realities from the consumers' angle " and " [help] us to identify where there are problems ". ES 3 concludes in relation to FIN-NET as follows: " There is no doubt that the FIN-NET constitutes an effective mechanism to enhance the protection of consumers’ interests relating to cross-border shopping of financial products, but it is not problem-free. Work still needs to be done at European level to ensure that the interests of consumers who engage in cross-border transactions are protected effectively ." In summary, there appears to be consensus among witnesses that FIN-NET is a potentially useful network, which may help to direct consumers to the scheme which is competent for dealing with their complaint in cross-border situations. However, FIN-NET is of no relevance when none of its member schemes has jurisdiction over a particular complaint. Evidence presented to the committee has revealed that the current differences between FIN-NET member schemes in terms of definitions of jurisdictions have lead to such situations. For instance, complaints by German policyholders, who contracted with ELAS branch in Germany, fell outside the jurisdiction of both the German and the UK ombudsman. Furthermore, in some Member States, ombudsmen do not have sufficient powers to adjudicate; in others, dispute resolution schemes do not exist or they have not become members of FIN-NET. Overall, evidence proves that there are significant gaps within the FIN-NET system. The situation in which German ELAS policyholders found themselves is therefore not exceptional and similar situations may (and are likely to) arise in the future. These gaps in consumer protection are unacceptable in an internal market, which is characterised by rapidly increasing volumes of financial services provided across borders. Consumers must benefit from the same level of protection through access to out-of-court redress schemes irrespective of whether they purchase financial products from domestic or foreign providers, not least because cross-border problems, such as those which have arisen in the context of Equitable Life undermine consumer confidence in Europe's financial services market. The committee notes that the Commission is beginning to address the issue. However, more needs to be done to rectify the imbalance between hard law which makes it possible for financial services