an internal auditing function which must be performed in compliance with the relevant international standards. The internal auditor appointed by the institution shall be answerable to the latter for verifying the proper operation of budgetary implementation systems and procedures. The internal auditor may not be either authorising officer or accounting officer. Article 86 1. The internal auditor shall advise his/her institution on dealing with risks, by issuing independent opinions on the quality of management and control systems and by issuing recommendations for improving the conditions of implementation of operations and promoting sound financial management. He/She shall be responsible in particular: a) for assessing the suitability and effectiveness of internal management systems and the performance of departments in implementing policies, programmes and actions by reference to the risks associated with them; b) for assessing the suitability and quality of the internal control and audit systems applicable to every budgetary implementation operation. 2. The internal auditor shall perform his/her duties on all the institution's activities and departments. He/She shall enjoy full and unlimited access to all information required to perform his duties, if necessary on the spot, including in the Member States and in third countries. 3. The internal auditor shall report to the institution on his/her findings and recommendations. The institution shall ensure that action is taken on recommendations resulting from audits. The internal auditor shall also submit to the institution an annual internal audit report indicating the number and type of internal audits carried out, the recommendations made and the action taken on those recommendations. 4. Each year the institution shall forward a report to the discharge authority summarising the number and type of internal audits carried out, the recommendations made and the action taken on those recommendations. Article 87 Special rules applicable to the internal auditor shall be laid down by the institution and shall be such as to guarantee that he/she is totally independent in the performance of his/her duties and to establish his responsibility. If the internal auditor is an official or other member of staff, he/she shall assume responsibility as laid down in the Staff Regulations and spelt out in the implementing rules. TITLE V PROCUREMENT CHAPTER 1 General provisions Section 1 Scope and award principles Article 88 1. Public contracts are contracts for pecuniary interest concluded in writing by a contracting authority within the meaning of Articles 104 and 167, in order to obtain, against payment of a price paid in whole or in part from the budget, the supply of movable or immovable assets, the execution of works or the provision of services. These contracts comprise: a) contracts for the purchase or rental of a building; b) supply contracts; c) works contracts; d) service contracts. 2. This Title does not relate to grants. Article 89 1. All public contracts financed in whole or in part by the budget shall comply with the principles of transparency, proportionality, equal treatment and non-discrimination. 2. All procurement contracts shall be put out to tender on the broadest possible base, except when use is made of the negotiated procedure referred to