framework governing the migration, where the two systems will co-exist on that provisory period of time. It was decided to create an interim technical architecture allowing that the SIS I + and certain technical parts of the architecture of SIS II to be able to operate in parallel for a limited transitional period, and at the same time they tried to clarify conditions, procedures, responsibilities, the financing of the migration process and the substantive legal framework applicable during migration. A new technical tool was introduced - a "converter" - allowing for the successful conversion and synchronisation of data between SIS I+ and SIS II. In fact, the SIS I central system and the SIS II central system will be connect through the converter enabling them to process the same information and ensuring that the Member States already successful connected to the SIS II stay on the same level as the others that are still connected to the SIS I+. A new function - "the reverse mode" - has also been added in order to allow this interim technical architecture to work. The operational start of SIS II will close the development phase and the beginning of the SIS II legal basis applicability. According to this logic, than the migration phase has to be the final task under the development mandate for SIS II, implying the need to have a SIS II development mandate valid, for the Commission, until the operational start of SIS II, in order to allow them to carry out all the tasks defined as preconditions in the SIS II legal instruments, including the correction of any bugs identified during the test phases and to provide all necessary tools such as test platforms and resources, with the aim of delivering a system perfectly working. Migration proposals The first legislative package by which the Commission was entrusted with the development of the second generation SIS was valid until 31 December 2006 and was later extended to 31 December 2008. The actual migration instruments, Council Regulation (EC) 1140/2008 and Council Decision 2008/839/JHA state that migration should be completed by 30 September 2009 at the latest. If necessary, the Commission could extend this date through comitology until the expiry of the migration instruments. The sunset clause sets the date for expiry at 30 June 2010 . The Commission made use of the option to postpone the date for completion of the migration via comitology until 30 June 2010. However, current forecasts say that migration will not be completed by mid-2010. Therefore, the Commission proposes to amend the migration instruments again before they expire. The latest forecasts indicate that the migration could be completed by the end of 2011. The progress report on the development of SIS II, published by the Commission in October 2009, states that the two so-called milestone tests for SIS II are foreseen for the fourth quarter of 2009 and summer 2010 respectively. According to the Council conclusions of 4/5 June 2009 the current SIS II project is being continued, but a contingency plan (SIS 1+RE) is kept in reserve