15 December 1999 JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure by the following Members: Nassauer, Maij-Weggen, Costa Neves, Jarzembowski and Cushnahan, on behalf of the PPE Group Titley, on behalf of the PSE Group Lynne, on behalf of the ELDR Group Hautala, McKenna, Lagendijk, Lambert and Knörr Borràs, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group Miranda, Vinci, Seppanen, Schmidt and Manisco, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group replacing motions by : - the PSE Group ( B5-0339/1999 ) - the ELDR Group ( B5-0350/1999 ) - the PPE/DE Group ( B5-0366/1999 ) - the Verts/ALE Group ( B5-0377/1999 ) - the GUE/NGL Group ( B5-0382/1999 ) on Indonesia The European Parliament, - having regard to its previous resolutions on East Timor and Indonesia, A. whereas on 16 September 1999 the Council adopted its Common Position introducing restrictive measures against the Republic of Indonesia, including an arms embargo and the suspension of bilateral military co-operation between Indonesia and the EU Member States, B. whereas on 11 October 1999 Council adopted a Regulation prohibiting the sale etc of certain specified equipment that might be used for internal repression, C. whereas both the Common Position and the Regulation will expire on 17 January 2000, D. whereas the Indonesian army, including the special troop command Kopassus, continues to perpetrate human rights violations and acts of repression in the provinces of Aceh , the Moluccan Isl ands and West Papua; whereas no members of the security forces have been brought to account for the thousands of violations committed there, E. whereas the Indonesian army (TNI) has failed to disarm and disband the militia forces who are continuing to terrorise over 100 000 East Timorese refugees trapped in West Timor, and are obstructing efforts by UN agencies to safeguard their health and repatriate them to East Timor, F. whereas the Indonesian authorities and the TNI in particular are implacably opposed to co-operating with an international commission of inquiry set up by the UN to investigate crimes against humanity in East Timor, 1. Urges the new Indonesian Government to find a peaceful solution to the situation in Aceh, on the Moluccan Islands, West Papua and other parts of Indonesia; 2. Asks the Indonesian Government to bring to account those responsible for violations of human rights in Aceh, the Moluccan Islands, West Papua as well as other parts of the country, and in East Timor, whether committed by civilians, militias or the military; calls on all parties concerned to collaborate fully in this investigation and calls upon the Indonesian Government to disband the special troop command Kopassus; 3. Recognises that the resumption of the export of arms and other prohibited equipment to the Republic of Indonesia and the resumption of military co-operation will send a signal to the Indonesian armed forces that they have been rehabilitated and will legitimise the repression they continue to practise in the internal governance of Indonesia; 4. Therefore asks the Council to examine possible adjustments of its Common Position 1999/624/CFSP and to Regulation (EC) No 2158/1999 in the light