consideration by the College, the Commission decides to maintain its proposal, it shall explain the reasons for that decision in a statement before Parliament. 34. For its part, in order to improve legislative planning, Parliament undertakes: (i) to plan the legislative sections of its agendas, bringing them into line with the current legislative programme and with the resolutions it has adopted on that programme; (ii) to meet reasonable deadlines, in so far as is useful for the procedure, when adopting its opinion at first reading under the cooperation and codecision procedures and under the consultation procedure; (iii) as far as possible to appoint rapporteurs on future proposals as soon as the legislative programme is adopted; (iv) to consider requests for reconsultation as a matter of absolute priority provided that all the necessary information has been forwarded to it. (iii) Specific legislative and implementing powers of the Commission 35. The Commission shall give full and timely information to Parliament concerning acts which it adopts which fall within the scope of its own legislative powers. The implementation of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. shall be governed by the Agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission OJ L 256, 10.10.2000, p. 19. on the procedures for implementing that decision. As regards implementing measures relating to the securities, banking and insurance sector, the Commission confirms the undertakings that it gave at the plenary sitting of 5 February 2002 and which were reaffirmed on 31 March 2004. In particular, the Commission commits itself to taking the utmost account of Parliament's position and any resolutions that it might adopt with regard to implementing measures exceeding the implementing powers provided for in the basic instrument; in such cases, it shall endeavour to reach a balanced solution. (iv) Monitoring the application of Community law 36. In addition to specific reports and the annual report on the application of Community law, the Commission shall, at the request of the responsible parliamentary committee, keep Parliament informed orally of the stage reached in the procedure as from the stage when the reasoned opinion is sent and, where procedures have been initiated for failure to communicate the measures implementing a directive, or for failure to comply with a judgment of the Court of Justice, as from the stage of formal notice. V. COMMISSION'S PARTICIPATION IN PARLIAMENTARY PROCEEDINGS 37. Parliament shall seek to ensure that, as a general rule, items falling under the responsibility of a Member of the Commission are grouped together. The Commission shall seek to ensure that, as a general rule, Members of the Commission are present at plenary sittings for agenda items falling under their responsibility, whenever Parliament so requests. 38. With a view to ensuring the presence of Members of the Commission, Parliament undertakes to do its best to maintain its final draft agendas. Where Parliament amends its final draft agenda, or where it moves items within the agenda within a part-session, Parliament shall immediately inform the