Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (10 March 2009) The Commission cannot agree with the Honourable Member that doctors in training should be excluded from the scope of the Working Time Directive Formerly Directive 93/104/EC; now Directive 2003/88/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time, OJ L 299, 18.11.2003. . The directive establishes minimum limits to weekly working time, minimum daily and weekly rests, and additional safeguards for night workers, in order to protect workers' health and safety. In those Member States where doctors in training have traditionally worked very long hours, introducing these minimum standards involves making changes to the organisation of their work. It is for this reason that when the Working Time Directive was extended to doctors in training, by agreement of the Member States, in 2000 By Directive 2000/34/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 2000 amending Council Directive 93/104/EC concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time to cover sectors and activities excluded from that directive, OJ L 195, 1.8.2000, now consolidated into Directive 2003/88/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time, OJ L 299, 18.11.2003. , the limit to average weekly working time was phased in gradually over a further nine-year period, with provision for further flexibility over another three years. It should be pointed out that the British Medical Association (BMA) has strongly supported applying the directive to doctors in training, stating in its last position paper on this subject to the Commission that ‘The Working Time Directive is essential health and safety legislation that is necessary to protect both doctors and patients. Better rested doctors provide better patient care, and the ability of doctors to learn is vastly improved when they are well rested.’ As regards the Honourable Member's comments about the detailed organisation of health services and the organisation of medical training, the Commission points out that this is essentially a competence of Member States. The Commission agrees with the views expressed by various medical professions and by the UK health services that the solution is not to exclude doctors from minimum health and safety standards, but rather to devise new methods of organising work and training which respect those standards while ensuring high-quality patient care and maximising training opportunities for doctors.