as defined in Regulation (EC) No ... [concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market]; 13) "use reduction' means reduction of applications of pesticides and is not necessarily dependent on volume; 14) "treatment frequency index' is based on the fixed standard dose of active substance per hectare needed for one treatment against the pest in question. Therefore, it is not necessarily dependent on volume and can be used to evaluate use reduction. Article 4 National action plans to reduce risks and use of pesticides 1. Not later than ... * One year after the entry into force of this Directive. , Member States shall adopt a background report in accordance with Annex III with the objective of identifying national trends in pesticide use and risks and the priority areas and crops to be addressed in the national action plan. 2 . Member States shall, after consulting farmers' and winegrowers' associations, environmental protection organisations and the industrial and other sectors concerned, adopt and implement without undue delay national action plans to set up targets, measures and timetables to reduce risks, including hazards, and dependence on pesticides. The national action plans shall as a minimum include: a) for other than biological pesticides and low-risk plant protection products as defined in Article [50(1)] of Regulation (EC) No ... [concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market], quantitative use reduction targets measured as a treatment index. The treatment index will be adapted to the specific conditions of each Member State. The treatment index will have to be communicated immediately to the Commission for its approval. For active substances of very high concern the reduction target shall be a minimum 50% reduction in relation to the treatment index calculated for the year 2005 by the end of 2013, unless the Member State can prove that it has already achieved a comparable or higher target based on another year of reference from the period 1995-2004; b) for pesticide formulations classified as toxic or very toxic pursuant to Directive 1999/45/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 May 1999 concerning the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations OJ L 200, 30.7.1999, p. 1. Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1). , a quantitative use reduction target measured as sold volumes. This target shall be a minimum 50% reduction calculated in relation to the year 2005 by the end of 2013, unless the Member State can prove that it has already achieved a comparable or higher reduction target based on another year of reference from the period 1995-2004. Member States may also choose to opt for setting the same targets for risk reduction, instead of use reduction targets. Reduction of risks shall be measured using the risk indicators as provided for in Article 15 and Member States opting for risk reduction shall select a year of reference from the period 1995-2005. National action plans shall include integrated pest management