WRITTEN QUESTION P-3929/08 by Antolín Sánchez Presedo (PSE) to the Commission (9 July 2008) Subject: Increase in oil prices The increase in oil prices has a direct impact on the cost structure of businesses and on the living conditions of European families — the most vulnerable communities being particularly exposed. Inflation reduces growth, threatens employment, undermines public finances and — in the external sphere — particularly affects less-developed countries which are importers of fuel. Although there is a structural trend towards higher prices, the changes which have occurred in recent years (in 2002 the price was USD 25, in 2007 it was USD 73) and this year's sharp increase (the price is already in excess of USD 140) suggest that an upward spiral has developed above and beyond the natural trends in supply and demand. The financial economy is much better developed than the real economy; the focusing of financial products on certain goods may generate price bubbles which excessively benefit a handful of people at the expense of the immense majority and the general progress of the economy. Energy costs are a key to achieving the EU's objectives and the EU energy-policy targets. 1. Is a set of common responses by the EU and of coordinated actions by the Member States to be drawn up? Is distorting unilateral action going to be avoided? Is the EU going to speak with a single voice in its promotion of international initiatives on the topic? 2. Has the EU access to regular, up-to-date information concerning the situation on the markets, the stocks on hand within the Member States and the companies operating in Europe? Will it promote transparency at European and international level? 3. Has the EU access as well to information concerning the movements on financial markets of oil products and their derivatives? Will it promote transparency in this area? Is there any point in demanding a bond or the application of a tax on financial transactions relating to futures or derivatives in the case of energy or other essential products, in order to stabilise the markets? 4. Is there any link between the trends seen on the markets and the weakness of the dollar, or is this a response to some other kind of risk? 5. In view of the contractual asymmetry between the concentration of supply in the hands of major energy consortia and the fragmentation of demand, is the Commission considering the possibility of increasing actual competition by establishing the conditions for negotiations grouped in vertical relations, thereby combating unfair competition in a coordinated fashion and promoting other measures?