shall be given to projects declared to be of European interest. 3. When projects are selected under other Community cofinancing funds, particular attention shall be given to projects declared to be of European interest. 4. If there is a significant current or prospective delay in the progress of a project declared to be of European interest, the Commission may ask the Member States concerned to ensure that reasons for the delay are provided within three months. As regards projects declared to be of European interest for which a European coordinator has been appointed, the European coordinator shall include in his report the reasons for the delay. 5. Five years after the completion of a project declared to be of European interest or one of the sections thereof, the Commission, assisted by the Committee referred to in Article 14(1), shall carry out an assessment of that project which includes its socio-economic impact, impact on the environment, impact on trade between Member States and impact on territorial cohesion and sustainable development. The Commission shall inform the Committee referred to in Article 14(1) of the result of that assessment. 6. For each project declared to be of European interest, and in particular for cross-border sections thereof, the Member States concerned shall take appropriate steps to ensure that: – a regular exchange of relevant information takes place; and – joint coordination meetings are organised as appropriate. The joint coordination meetings shall be organised as required in the light of the particular requirements of the project, such as the project development phase, and the difficulties anticipated or encountered. The joint coordination meetings shall address, in particular, the evaluation and the public consultation procedures. The Member States concerned shall ensure that the Commission is informed of the joint coordination meetings and of the exchange of information. Article 9 Implementation of projects of European interest 1. Projects of European interest should be implemented rapidly. No later than ... * Six months after the entry into force of this Decision. , Member States shall, using as a basis a draft timetable provided to that effect by the Commission, submit to the Commission an updated and indicative timetable for the completion of those projects including, as far as available, details of: a) the envisaged passage of the project through the planning approval process; b) the timetable for the feasibility and design phase; c) the construction of the project; and d) the entry into service of the project. 2. The Commission, in close collaboration with the committee referred to in Article 14(1), shall present a report every two years on the progress of projects referred to in paragraph 1. For projects declared to be of European interest for which a European coordinator has been appointed, the annual reports presented by the European coordinator shall replace those biennial reports. Article 10 European coordinator 1. When a project declared to be of European interest encounters significant delays or implementation difficulties, including in situations where third countries are involved, the Commission may designate, in agreement with the Member States concerned, and after having consulted the