I. whereas the safety and rights of all minorities, including religious groups, must be respected and protected in all societies; J. whereas the European Union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and has stressed that governments have a duty to guarantee these freedoms, 1. Reiterates its long-standing opposition to the death penalty in all cases and under all circumstances, including for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide, and emphasises once again that abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights; 2. Condemns, therefore, the decision of the Iraqi Court to sentence Tariq Aziz to death; underlines, however, the importance of holding accountable those who violate human rights, including (former) politicians, in the framework of the rule of law and due process; 3. Urges the Iraqi authorities to reconsider their decision and not to carry out the death sentence pronounced by the Iraqi Court; believes that this will contribute to national reconciliation, peace and justice, and stabilization of the situation in Iraq; welcomes the announced intention of Iraq´s President Jalal Talabani not to sign the execution order; 4. Encourages the Iraqi government to sign and ratify the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and to sign Protocol 13m to the Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, concerning the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances and calls for an immediate moratorium on executions; 5. Recalls that the full abolition of the death penalty remains one of the main objectives of the EU Human Rights policy; 6. Strongly condemns the attacks on religious communities in Iraq and urges the Iraqi Government to do more to protect civilians in an effort to prevent a deadly upsurge in sectarian violence; 7. Reaffirms its full support for the population of Iraq and calls on all Iraqi political entities to work together against the threat of violence and terrorism; emphasises that the right of all religious groups to gather and worship freely must be protected; 8. Deplores the deliberate targeting of locations where civilians congregate, including places of worship, voices its deep condolences to the families of the victims, and expresses confidence that the Iraqi people will remain steadfast in their continued rejection of efforts by extremists to spark sectarian tension; 9. Stresses that no terrorist act can reverse a path towards peace, national unity, democracy and reconstruction in Iraq, which is supported by the people and the government of Iraq and the international community; 10. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the High Representative, the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the EU Member States, the UN Secretary-General, and the President of the UN General Assembly and the governments of the UN Member States.