the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the Member States and the Community shall be presented to the committee responsible which shall submit a report to Parliament. 2. The Council shall be invited to inform the Parliament of the content of its recommendation, and of the position taken by the European Council. CHAPTER 3 QUESTIONS TO THE COUNCIL, THE COMMISSION AND THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK Rule 108 Questions for oral answer with debate 1. Questions may be put to the Council or the Commission by a committee, a political group or at least forty Members with a request that they be placed on the agenda of Parliament. Such questions shall be submitted in writing to the President who shall immediately refer them to the Conference of Presidents. The Conference of Presidents shall decide whether and in what order questions should be placed on the agenda. Questions not placed on Parliament's agenda within three months of being submitted shall lapse. 2. Questions to the Commission must be referred to that institution at least one week before the sitting on whose agenda they are to appear and questions to the Council at least three weeks before that date. 3. Where the questions concern matters referred to in Articles 17 and 34 of the EU Treaty, the time limit provided for in paragraph 2 of this Rule shall not apply, and the Council must reply with sufficient promptness to keep Parliament properly informed. 4. One of the questioners may move the question for five minutes. One member of the institution concerned shall answer. The author of the question is entitled to use the whole period of speaking time mentioned. 5. Rule 103(2) to (5) shall apply mutatis mutandis. Rule 109 Question Time 1. Question Time with the Council and Commission shall be held at each part-session at such times as may be decided by Parliament on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents. A specific period of time may be set aside for questions to the President and individual Members of the Commission. 2. No Member may put more than one question to the Council and the Commission at a given part-session. 3. Questions shall be submitted in writing to the President, who shall rule on their admissibility and on the order in which they are to be taken. The questioner shall be notified immediately of this decision. 4. The detailed procedure shall be governed by guidelines laid down in an annex to these Rules of Procedure See Annex II. . Rule 110 Questions for written answer to the Council or the Commission 1. Any Member may put questions for written answer to the Council or the Commission in accordance with guidelines laid down in an annex to these Rules of Procedure See Annex IIa. . The content of questions shall be the sole responsibility of their authors. 2. Questions shall be submitted in writing to the President who shall forward them to the institution concerned. Doubts concerning the admissibility of a question shall be settled by the President. His decision shall be notified