“assuming price stability … can be maintained”. However, the task of the Governing Council of the ECB, is to set the key ECB interest rates in a way that price stability can best be maintained in the future. This would serve other policy objectives as well. It cannot be assumed that price stability is given, thus allowing other objectives to be pursued independently. 9. How would you seek to resolve the policy mix problems resulting from the combination of a centralised monetary policy and decentralised fiscal policies? Potential “policy mix” problems in the euro area can be resolved. Responsibilities are clearly defined and policy-makers have the incentive to focus on their own specific responsibilities. Furthermore, there are many appropriate means for the exchange of information. The Treaty assigns to the ECB and to the single monetary policy the primary objective of maintaining price stability in the euro area. The Treaty and the Stability and Growth Pact have laid down important principles and fiscal and budgetary rules to discipline national fiscal policies. The Treaty finally requires the Member States to regard all aspects of their economic policies as a matter of common concern and to co-ordinate them in the context of the BEPGs, even though the responsibility for structural policies rests to a large extent with the Member States themselves. Within this institutional framework conflicts and overlaps in competence and responsibility in the management of the single monetary policy and in the design of fiscal and structural policies are avoided in general. For good reasons, the Treaty rules out ex-ante co-ordination of fiscal and monetary policy, focused for example on achieving a certain policy mix. Such a co-ordination would risk creating uncertainties in the public regarding the policy objectives of the different institutions. It may distract national governments from carrying out their own responsibilities. Moreover, any real or perceived political pressures on monetary policy to facilitate or “reward” developments on the fiscal and structural side with reference to a “desirable policy mix” would raise uncertainty about the objectives of monetary policy, thereby endangering credibility and reducing the benefits associated with the maintenance of price stability. This notwithstanding, on the basis of its mandate and in full recognition of its independence, there are good reasons for the ECB to conduct a regular exchange of views and information with the policy-making bodies of the European Union. The ECB has a natural interest in being informed about fiscal and structural policy measures taken in the euro area, as these may also influence price developments and the transmission mechanism of monetary policy. Monetary policy will, of course, take euro area-wide fiscal and structural policies into account. In the same way, fiscal policies should take into account the course of monetary policy in their efforts to achieve their objectives. C. Functioning of the ECB 10. Which reforms should ECB undergo in view of enlargement? Over the past few months, the ECB’s decision-making bodies have discussed modifying voting modalities in the Governing Council on various occasions. The Governing Council intends to make its recommendations on a change to its