to in Article 8, shall adopt guidelines in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 8(3). The guidelines shall conform to the basic principles set out in the following paragraphs. 2. As regards speed, the use of automatic checking equipment on motorways, secondary roads, and urban roads shall be encouraged more specifically on those sections of the road network where the number of accidents caused by speeding is higher than average. The recommendations adopted for the purposes of these guidelines shall seek to ensure that the number of speed checks using automatic equipment increases by 30% in Member States where the number of fatalities is above the EU average and the fall in the number of fatalities since 2001 is below the EU average. A good geographical coverage of the territory of each Member State should be ensured. 3. As regards drink-driving , Member States shall, as a matter of priority, carry out random tests in places where, and at times when, non-compliance is frequent and increases the risk of accidents. Member States shall ensure that at least 30% of drivers can be tested annually. 4. As regards the use of seat belts, intensive checking operations shall be conducted for at least six weeks in any one year by Member States where less than 70% of the population wear seat belts, in particular in places where and at times when the non-compliance is frequent. 5. As regards failure to stop at a red traffic light, automatic checking equipment shall be used primarily for junctions where the rules are often breached and a higher than average number of accidents occur as a result of driving through a red traffic light. 6. The guidelines shall recommend that Member States exchange good practices; in particular, they shall call on Member States which are most advanced in the area of automatic checking to provide technical assistance to those Member States which so request. Justification Road safety checking and testing procedures should be harmonised so as to enable policies to be coordinated more effectively at European level. National situations should be taken into account, to ensure that checks can be intensified in countries where performance is poorer. According to the Commission, the average number of fatalities in the EU in 2007 was 83 per million inhabitants, and, between 2001 and 2007, the average fall in the numbers killed was 20%. Amendment 16 Proposal for a directive Article 3 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The competent authorities of the other Member States shall not store the information sent by the State of offence. 3. Information exchange with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of data in this connection shall take place in compliance with Directive 95/46/E C . The competent authorities of the other Member States shall not store the information sent by the State of offence ; it shall be se n t solely for the purpose s of the Directive, and, upon conclusion of proceedings, all data must be verifiably deleted. Justification