resources, at the same time ensuring even higher safety standards and producing less waste than current designs. Thanks mainly to the worldwide exception of France , n uclear power currently generates less than one third of all electricity consumed in the EU and is the most significant source of carbon-free base-load electricity presently available in few Member States. However, nuclear power does only cover 15% of the EU primary consumption. There are , however, important concerns that affect the continued use of this energy source in the EU. The key issues are operational reactor safety and management of long-lived waste, both of which are being addressed through continued work at the technical level, though allied political and societal inputs are also required. In all uses of radiation, throughout industry and medicine alike, the overriding principle is the protection of man and the environment. All thematic domains to be addressed here are characterised by an overriding concern to ensure high levels of safety. Similarly there are clearly identifiable needs throughout nuclear science and engineering relating to availability of research infrastructures and expertise. In addition, the individual technical areas are linked by key cross-cutting topics such as the nuclear fuel cycle, actinide chemistry, risk analysis and safety assessment and even societal and governance issues. There are important concerns that affect the continued use of this energy source in the EU. The key issues are an increased risk of terrorism and proliferation threats, operational reactor safety and management of radioactive waste, in particular the long lived both of which are being addressed through continued work at the technical level, though allied political and societal inputs are also required. In all uses of radiation, throughout industry and medicine alike, the overriding principle must be the protection of man and the environment. All thematic domains to be addressed here are characterised by an overriding concern to ensure high levels of safety. Similarly there are clearly identifiable needs throughout nuclear science and engineering relating to availability of research infrastructures and expertise. In addition, the individual technical areas are linked by key cross-cutting topics such as the nuclear fuel cycle, actinide chemistry, risk analysis and safety assessment and even societal and governance issues. Research will also be needed to explore new scientific and technological opportunities and to respond in a flexible way to new policy needs that arise during the course of the Framework Programme Research will also be needed to explore new scientific and technological opportunities and to respond in a flexible way to new policy needs that arise during the course of the Framework Programme Justification Same justification as Amendment 9. Amendment 12 Annex 1, Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection, Activities, Management of radioactive waste Management of radioactive waste Management of radioactive waste and social and environmental impacts Implementation oriented r esearch and development activities on deep geological disposal of spent fuel and long-lived radioactive waste and, as appropriate, demonstration on the technologies and safety, and to underpin the development of a common European view on the main issues related to the management and disposal of waste.