Joint answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-1260/05 , E-1261/05 (11 May 2005) The Commission is not aware of the specific situation referred to by the Honourable Member and is therefore not in a position to assess whether the TUPE The TUPE (Transfer of Undertakings — Protection of Employment — Regulations 1981 (SI 1794), as amended) is the British law transposing Council Directive 2001/23/EC of 12 March 2001 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the safeguarding of employees' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings, businesses or parts of undertakings or businesses, OJ L 82, 22.3.2001. should apply in the case at stake. The aim of Council Directive 2001/23/EC is to provide for the protection of employees in the event of a change of employer, in particular, to ensure that their rights are safeguarded. To this end, the directive provides in the main a) that the transferor's rights and obligations arising from an employment relationship existing on the date of a transfer are transferred to the transferee, b) that the transfer is not in itself to constitute grounds for dismissal by the transferor or the transferee and c) that workers' representatives have certain rights to be informed and consulted. Directive 2001/23/EC applies to economic entities which constitute organised groupings of resources having the objective of pursuing an identifiable economic activity (Article 1(1)(b)). According to Article 1(1)(c), the directive applies to any type of undertaking whether they are public or private and whether or not they are operating for gain. The essential element for the characterisation of an entity as an undertaking or business is that this entity is engaged in economic activities, i.e. that it provides goods or services on a market. Activities involving the exercise of public authority do not fall within the scope of the directive. Also excluded from the scope of the directive is an administrative reorganisation of public administrative authorities, or the transfer of administrative functions between public administrative authorities (Article 1(1)(c) last sentence). In any case, it should be stressed that, in principle, it is up to competent national authorities, and notably national courts, to assure that national and Community laws are applied.