IOI would have dealt with complaints about ELAS policies sold in Ireland. Furthermore, it appears that when the IOI rejected her complaint it did not refer her to the FOS There is no indication in WE-FILE 33 (responses to questionnaire) that the IOI referred to the FOS any complainant who had unsuccessfully complained to her. . Nevertheless, Ms KNOWD decided to ask ELAS for " a signing-off letter for the FOS " but was told in return by ELAS that " the UK Ombudsman does not have jurisdiction to deal with Irish complainants ". When she insisted, ELAS appears to have issued the signing-off letter but continued to discourage her from complaining to the FOS, this time stating " that the question of whether the FOS has jurisdiction over Irish policies is far from clear, ... [is] complex and take[s] a considerable time to resolve " (see WE-CONF 28). Eventually, after 18 months, her complaint was admitted by the FOS (see below). The remaining 65 cases were dealt with by the IOI. The complaints concerned a variety of issues such as allegations of mis-selling, the application of market value adjustments, bonus rates, settlement amounts and surrender values (see WE 63). Mr MEADE could not specify how many of the complainants alleged that they were not informed about the existence of the GAR-related risks when they bought their policies: " Our files do not contain detailed analyses regarding the existence of GAR " (WE 68). Likewise, he stated that " as some of these files are more than six years old they are no longer kept in line with the six year Companies Act requirements , it would be difficult to quantify how many indicated that they were invested in a ring-fenced Irish fund " (WE 68). Thus it is not clear how many of the 65 cases considered by the IOI are of relevance in terms of the main mis-selling allegations referred to under point IX 2 c.) Mr MEADE provided statistics regarding the treatment of 86 complaints, (i.e. 7 complaints to the Irish Financial Services Ombudsman plus 79 complaints to its predecessor): As outlined above, 14 cases were " referred to other agencies ". Of the remaining 72 cases, 13 were bound by the compromise scheme of arrangement and 15 fell outside the terms of reference. Furthermore, " 7 cases regarding clarification arose and were not pursued further, and 4 other cases were not pursued because of a lack of information being supplied by the complainant " (WE 68). Decisions were only issued on the remaining 33 cases, 15 of which " in favour of the complainant " (WE 68), which represents 17% of all complaints submitted. Again, Mr MEADE did not indicate, whether these cases concerned the main mis-selling allegations referred to under point IX 2 c.), which were put forward by ELAS victims. Of the 30 Irish policyholders who responded to the committee's questionnaire (see WE-FILE 33), only 7 indicate that they had made complaints to the IOI. 3 of them received small settlements. One complaint was rejected because