Answer given by Ms Kroes on behalf of the Commission (25 May 2009) 1. As indicated by the Honourable Member, according to Article 8 of the Commission decision of 28 November 2005 on the application of Article 86(2) of the EC Treaty to state aid in the form of public service compensation granted to certain undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest (SGEI Decision) OJ L 312, 29.11.2005. , Member States had to submit to the Commission the first report in relation to the application of this decision, by 19 December 2008. Not all Member States have submitted detailed reports in relation to the compensations granted in the hospital sector as yet. 2. Public service compensations provided by a public authority to public hospitals for the provision of Services of General Economic Interest (SGEI) may constitute state aid if the criteria established by the Court of Justice in its Altmark ruling are not cumulatively met. Nevertheless, the fact that a public service compensation constitutes state aid does not mean that it is not allowed, since that compensation may be compatible with the Treaty, if the conditions laid down in the SGEI Decision are fulfilled. According to Article 2, paragraph 1(b) of this decision, public service compensations granted to hospitals carrying out activities qualified as Services of General Economic Interest by Member States, are exempted from notification independently of the amount concerned, as long as the conditions, i.e. a proper entrustment and safeguards to avoid overcompensation, as laid down in this decision See Articles 4 to 6 of the SGEI Decision as well as paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Commission Staff working document SEC(2007)1516 final. , are fulfilled. 3. The SGEI Decision is applicable to hospitals which are entrusted with tasks involving Services of General Economic Interest. Hospitals providing medical care, including, where applicable, emergency services and ancillary services directly related to the main activities, may benefit from the exemption from notification provided for in the SGEI Decision, independently of the amounts of compensation concerned, if the services performed are qualified as Services of General Economic Interest by the Member States and the conditions set out in the decision are complied with. 4. Public service compensations which do not comply with the Altmark conditions are considered as state aids which distort competition in the internal market. However, if the granting of such aid fulfils the conditions laid down by the SGEI Decision or the Community Framework for state aid in the form of public service compensation, it is considered compatible with the Treaty.