professional user wishing to apply pesticides by aerial spraying shall submit a request to the competent authority accompanied by data supporting that the conditions referred to in paragraph 4 are fulfilled. The notification shall contain information about the time of spraying and the amounts and the type of pesticides applied. 6. The competent authorities shall keep records of derogations granted and shall make them available to the public . Article 10 Information to the public Member States may include in their national action plans provisions on informing neighbours who could be exposed to the spray drift. Article 11 Specific measures to protect the aquatic environment 1. Member States shall ensure that, when pesticides are used in the vicinity of water bodies, particularly bodies of drinking water, preference is given to: a) products that do not present a high risk of entering the aquatic environment; b) most efficient application techniques, including the use of low-drift application equipment. 2. Member States shall take the necessary action to protect bodies of water, in particular by ensuring that ▐buffer zones, where pesticides must not be applied or stored, are established on fields adjacent to water courses, and in particular to safeguard zones for the abstraction of drinking water established in accordance with Article 7(3) of Directive 2000/60/EC. The dimensions of the buffer zones shall be defined as a function of the risks of pollution and the agricultural and climate characteristics of the area concerned. Furthermore Member States shall ensure that, in safeguard zones for the abstraction of drinking water in accordance with Article 7(3) of Directive 2000/60/EC, additional measures are taken to prevent contamination of water with pesticides including, where necessary, tighter restrictions on use of some high-risk products, enhanced use of buffer zones, specific training and awareness of advisers and spray operators, and strict enforcement of best practice in filling, mixing and disposal of pesticides. Member States may establish any pesticide-free zones they deem necessary in order to safeguard drinking water resources. Such pesticide-free zones may cover the entire Member State. 3. Member States shall ensure that appropriate measures are taken to limit the aerial drift and long-range transportation of pesticides at least in vertical crops, including orchards, vineyards, and hops directly adjacent to or near a water course , by ensuring that pesticide use in such areas is reduced to the minimum and non-chemical alternatives are used . 4. Member States shall ensure that application of pesticides is reduced as far as possible or eliminated ▐on or along roads, railway lines, ▐surfaces made up of permeable rock, in sloping areas or other infrastructure close to surface water or groundwater, or on sealed surfaces with high risk of run-off into surface water or sewage systems. In all these areas use of non-chemical alternatives should be promoted. Article 12 Reduction of pesticide use in sensitive areas 1. Member States shall, taking due account of the necessary hygiene and public safety requirements, ensure that the following measures are adopted: a) the use of pesticides shall be prohibited or restricted to the minimum necessary in all areas used