Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (20 June 2007) The 2006 Employment in Europe report http://ec.europa.eu/employment_social/employment_analysis/employ_2006_en.htm provides evidence from several surveys (including the 1997 International Social Survey Programme and the 1999 European Consumer and Household Panel) suggesting that workers seem to have a perception of higher insecurity in countries with the most stringent employment protection legislation (EPL) The standard reference is the EPL indicator which is regularly calculated by the OECD and provides internationally comparable figures of the strictness of employment protection legislation. It is a comprehensive measure encompassing rules on hiring and dismissals of regular workers (i.e. those holding a permanent contract), on the use and renewal of atypical contracts (e.g. fixed-term or those stipulated by Temporary Work Agencies) and on collective dismissals. The index ranges from 0 to 6 attributing higher values to countries having a stricter set of rules (i.e. rules which make dismissals more difficult, set more limits to the use of atypical contracts etc.). . Evidence from the International labour Organisation (ILO) also shows that stable employment, which tends to be associated with stricter EPL, does not necessarily result in higher perceived security by workers. On the other hand, size and coverage of unemployment benefit systems, as well as the amount of spending in labour market policies, including Active Labour Market Policies (ALMPs), are positively correlated with indicators of perceived job security of workers across a number of EU and OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. countries. Regular and stable employment relationships are the standard reference in all Member States for maintaining secure employment and strengthening competitiveness. Other forms of employment, including part-time work, can facilitate reintegration into the labour market and afford individuals greater choice in adjusting their work patterns. Part-time work can constitute stable employment for some categories of workers. Furthermore, accommodating more diversified individual needs as well as reconciling work and family responsibilities are key factors accounting for the growth of part-time jobs voluntarily taken by workers. Less than one-fifth of part-time employment is involuntary Eurostat, 2005 EU Labour Force Survey — Involuntary part-time employment means that "part time was taken because the person could not find a full time job". The other reasons for working part-time are related to education or training, illness or disability, family or personal circumstances . See also 4th European Survey of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (2006). . Devising means of balancing flexibility and security by focusing more on people, rather than jobs, may be more in line with both workers' and companies’ needs in the context of globalisation, ongoing restructuring and the move towards a knowledge-based economy. Such a system allows companies to swiftly respond to market needs and workers to enhance their employability and adaptability and to move more easily to higher quality jobs. The Commission intends to present a Communication on promoting ‘flexicurity’ in the coming months. According to the latest EUROSTAT data, the unemployment rate for the EU‑27 was at 7.9 % in 2006 For more information, please see: http://epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu/portal/page?_pageid=1996,45323734&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL&screen=welcomeref&open=/&product=STRIND_EMPLOI&depth=2 .