Article 12, paragraph 1a a (new) (Directive 96/82/EC) In Article 12, the following paragraph is added: “1aa. The Commission shall in the same context develop a scheme of incentives and/or funding for the relocation of establishments covered by this Directive which do not provide for the appropriate safety distance. This could be done in the framework of regional policy.” Justification Reinstatement of amendment 31 from first reading. Amendment 8 ARTICLE 1, POINT 15 A (NEW) Annex III, point (c), indent (v) (Directive 96/82/CE) In Annex III, point (c), subparagraph (v) is replaced with the following: “(v) Planning for emergencies: adoption and implementation of procedures to identify foreseeable emergencies by systematic analysis and to prepare, test and review emergency plans to respond to such emergencies and specific training for the staff concerned. Such training shall be given to all staff working in the establishment, including sub-contracting staff.” Justification The issue of staff training is vital for prevention and emergency measures in the immediate aftermath of an accident. The Council has endorsed Parliament's concerns on this issue in principle. Nonetheless, it is essential to make a number of improvements concerning the emergency measures to be taken in the immediate aftermath of an accident and the minimum accident prevention measures required and to ensure that immediate emergency measures can be taken as effectively as possible in the event of an accident by all staff working in the establishment. Amendment 9 ARTICLE 1, PARAGRAPH 15 B (NEW) Annex V, point 10 a (new) (Directive 96/82/EC) In Annex V, the following point is added after point 10: “10a. A map showing areas which might be affected by the consequences of major accidents arising from the establishment.” Justification As regards information to the public, the pictorial representation, by means of a map, of the areas adjacent to the establishments subject to accident risks would not only facilitate the work of management, but provide the population concerned with clear and easily comprehensible information regarding the risks. In essence the Council has incorporated Parliament’s concerns regarding information to the public, but not the map. For this purpose Parliament has taken over the wording used by the Commission in its amended proposal ( COM(2002) 540 ). A retabling, in a modified form, of Amendment 46 adopted at first reading. Amendment 10 ANNEX, POINT 2 A (NEW) Annex I, Part I, Table, line 2 a (new) (Directive 96/82/EC) Amendment by Parliament In Part 1, the following lines are added: Potassium nitrate 5000 Potassium nitrate 10000 Justification Potassium nitrate is used mainly in the agricultural sector and to a lesser extent in the industrial sector, with applications ranging from glass and ceramics to textiles and steel. The conditions for storing, handling and processing this compound for agricultural use are similar to those for other fertilisers. The quantities of potassium nitrate involved at these stages are significant. Under the transport regulations potassium nitrate was classified as a division 5.1 oxidising agent in packaging group 3, corresponding to the lowest level of risk. On the basis of tests subsequently carried out by an accredited European