a country’s fiscal efforts and changes in the economic environment are assessed and taken into account for the design of further steps. The fiscal restraint imposed by the Stability and Growth Pact anchors economic agents’ confidence in the soundness of public finances which, in turn, is a pre-condition for the proper operation of the monetary union. It contributes to confidence, provides favourable conditions for investment, and is therefore an important ingredient as regards long-term growth. The contribution to long-term growth is enhanced if governments correct fiscal imbalances as part of a comprehensive structural reform agenda that also improves the “quality of public finances”. In this regard public expenditure restraint is pivotal. Only expenditure restraint can help finance the elimination of imbalances, the further reduction of taxes and the shifting of spending to productive areas. Fiscal structural reform in conjunction with deficit and debt reduction will also help prepare for the costs of population ageing. These medium-term benefits are important and have not always received sufficient attention in the debate on the Pact. The Stability and Growth Pact is a rules-based system that further specifies the legal provisions of the Maastricht Treaty. With regard to any policy proposals to change the rules of the current framework, it is my view that there is no need for changes in the current form of the Maastricht Treaty or the Stability and Growth Pact. However, the implementation of the Pact could be further improved, in particular as regards the analysis of structural balances and the strengthening of the incentives for sound fiscal policies in good times. Clarity and enforceability of the fiscal framework should also be enhanced. In my personal opinion, current problems are not the result of undue rigidities of the framework. Rather, they reflect the political unwillingness of some countries to comply with the commonly agreed rules. What is needed now, and what will remain essential in the future, is therefore a clear commit by all parties involved to maintain an effective framework for policy co-ordination and totmen improve the implementation of the existing rules. 9. What are in your view the main causes of the volatility of the exchange rate of the Euro, and its consequences in political, economic and financial terms? Do you consider this excessive volatility as a danger for monetary policy, and if so, what can be done to reduce it? What importance do you give in this context to the dangers posed by the twin US deficits? Starting with a factual observation, it seems that while the appreciation of the euro exchange rate seemed to have come to a halt during the opening months of 2004, volatility in the foreign exchange markets has recently increased. That said, it is immediately necessary to add that it is always difficult to explain developments in foreign exchange markets. For example, foreign exchange markets may have been affected by the fact that, despite the improving outlook for global demand conditions, some uncertainty remained about the short-term economic outlook in some of the main economic areas. Heightened volatility, which is commonly associated with increased