United States as in Europe. In certain sectors there still seem to be marketing difficulties and problems of a structural nature, e.g. steel, cars, telecommunications and, since 11 September, aviation and insurance. In addition, there are many signs (restructuring, mergers, specialisations) to suggest that, in the United States as in Europe, we are not only witnessing a temporary halt in a long period of growth, but are experiencing a recession during which industrial strategies will be adjusted and reorganised, with extensive social implications and the probable launch of a new cycle of investment, following the bursting of the financial bubble, linked to new technology and new forms of corporate organisation. Given the muted response of European economies and the absence of a proactive policy in the field of public and private investment, a new gap could be opening up between Europe and the United States in terms of competitiveness. A strategy of waiting for American recovery and its automatic impact on EU economies, where European economic policies are seen merely as a continuation of those followed in 2001, albeit adjusted to meet budgetary constraints, would therefore seem to be a risky course of action. Indeed, now that conditions have been utterly transformed, they might even play a 'procyclical' role. It is therefore necessary to map out a coordinated strategy for the economy and social policies of the countries of the Euro zone and the European Union which can effectively counteract the trend towards recession, particularly in the investment sector, where the current stagnation is still nowhere near the levels reached in the 1980s. The aim is not to call into question the terms of the Stability and Growth Pact, particularly at a time of such uncertainty. Indeed, a policy of this kind could prove an incentive for individual EU governments to adopt divergent approaches. The 3% limit on budget deficits should not be exceeded and should remain a cornerstone of policy to ensure financial recovery and combat inflation in the monetary union; however, the timescale for achieving a budget in balance or in surplus may be extended because of the duration of the recession. Yet it remains true that the Stability and Growth Pact does not for all that on its own guarantee an investment policy capable of bringing Europe closer to full employment based on knowledge and work quality. Constant vigilance is therefore required as regards inflation rates, which could be more easily reduced by joint action by the governments of the Euro zone to reach long-term agreements with producers of raw materials, especially oil, together with a highly selective approach when taking decisions on the distribution of public spending. At the same time, action in the field of taxation and in reducing social contributions from individual incomes should focus on reducing the cost of labour, particularly for lower paid workers, whilst efforts to stimulate the economy should focus on public and private investment and on swifter attainment of the objectives and structural reforms which form part of the Lisbon strategy but on which progress is lagging in several Union countries.