production and distribution of food, and also feed, where feed may have an adverse effect on food safety; 1. "food law" means the laws, regulations and administrative provisions governing food in general, and food safety in particular, whether at Community or national level ; it covers all stages of production and distribution of food, and also feed products where feed products may have an adverse effect on food safety; Amendment 32 Article 3, point 2 2. "food business" means any undertaking, whether for profit or not and whether public or private, carrying out any of the activities related to the stages of production and distribution of food; 2. "food business" means any undertaking, whether for profit or not and whether public or private, carrying out any of the activities related to all stages of production and distribution of food; Amendment 33 Article 3, point 2 a (new) 2a. "ingredient" means any substance, including additives, used in the manufacture or preparation of a food product which is still present, including in modified form, in the finished product. Amendment 34 Article 3, point 4 4. "feed' or "feedingstuff' means products of vegetable or animal origin in their natural state, fresh or preserved, and products derived from industrial preparation thereof, intended for oral feeding to food-producing animals ; 4. " feed product " means products of vegetable or animal origin in their natural state, fresh or preserved, and products derived from industrial preparation thereof, for use in feeding animals ; Amendment 35 Article 3, paragraph 5 5. "feed business" means any undertaking whether for profit or not and whether public or private, carrying out any operation of production, manufacture, processing, storage or distribution of feed, including any agricultural producer producing, processing or storing feed for feeding to food animals on his own holding; 5. "feed business" means any undertaking whether for profit or not and whether public or private, carrying out any operation of production, manufacture, processing, storage , transport and distribution of feed products including any agricultural producer or other producers of farm animals for feed products, including fish farmers, producing, processing or storing feed products for feeding to food animals on the holding of that undertaking ; Amendment 36 Article 3, point 7 7. "retail trade" means the handling and/or processing of food and its storage at the point of sale or delivery to the final consumer, and includes mass catering operations, factory canteens, institutional catering, restaurants and other similar food service operations, shops, supermarket distribution centres and wholesale outlets; 7. "retail trade" means the handling and/or processing of food and its storage at the point of sale or delivery to the final consumer, and includes shops, supermarket distribution centres and wholesale outlets; Amendment 37 Article 3, point 7 a (new) 7a. "food service" means the handling and/or processing of food and its storage at the point of sale or delivery to the final consumer, and includes mass catering operations, factory canteens, institutional catering, restaurants and other similar food service operations; Amendment 38 Article 3, point 8 8. "placing on the market" means