Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (28 February 2008) According to Article 88(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC OJ L 311, 28.11.2001. of Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use, the Member States shall prohibit the advertising to the general public of medicinal products that are available on medical prescription only. On the other hand, according to Article 88(4) of that directive, the abovementioned prohibition shall not apply to vaccination campaigns carried out by the industry and approved by the competent authorities of the Member States. If the vaccination campaigns for Gardasil and Cervarix, carried out by the pharmaceutical companies, are authorised by the Swedish authorities, these activities are covered by the exception provided for in Article 88(4). Consequently, in this regard the Commission considers the Swedish Medicinal Products Agency’s interpretation to be consistent with Directive 2001/83/EC. The vaccination campaigns approved under Article 88(4) have to fulfil all the other requirements on the advertising of medicinal products contained in the directive. In this regard it should be mentioned that in accordance with Article 87(2) of Directive 2001/83/EC, all parts of the advertising of a medicinal product must comply with the particulars listed in the summary of product characteristics (SmPC). According to the SmPC of Cervarix ‘Cervarix is indicated for the prevention of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN grades 2 and 3) and cervical cancer causally related to Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18’ http://emea.europa.eu/humandocs/PDFs/EPAR/cervarix/H‑721-PI-en.pdf . Furthermore, according to the SmPC of Gardasil ‘Gardasil is a vaccine for the prevention of high-grade cervical dysplasia (CIN 2/3), cervical carcinoma, high-grade vulvar dysplastic lesions (VIN 2/3), and external genital warts (condyloma acuminata) causally related to Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18’ http://emea.europa.eu/humandocs/PDFs/EPAR/gardasil/H‑703-PI-en.pdf . The fact that the pharmaceutical companies market the vaccines as indicated against cervical cancer is therefore in compliance with the information contained in the SmPC of these two products. In answering the second question of the Honourable Member whether vaccines against the HPV virus can be classified as vaccines against infectious diseases, it should be noted that Article 88(4) of Directive 2001/83/EC does not contain the expression of ‘vaccine against infectious diseases’. It generally derogates from the prohibition on advertising for vaccination campaigns. Therefore this distinction would not have an impact on the considerations above. Gardasil/Cervarix are vaccines which are designed to elicit an immune response against HPV virus, which is an infectious agent. It is true that the disease that Gardasil/Cervarix protect against is not the HPV virus itself, but cervical cancer that HPV infection can, in certain cases, induce. Cervical cancer in such cases is caused by an infectious agent (HPV virus).