WRITTEN QUESTION E-3607/07 by Angelika Beer (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (16 July 2007) Subject: EU‑India partnership and cooperation agreement and clause on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction 1. Should EU documents relating to the fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (EU Strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of 10 December 2003 and document 14997/03 of 19 November 2003: ‘Mainstreaming non-proliferation policies into the EU's wider relations with third countries’) be interpreted as signifying that the inclusion of non‑proliferation clauses in partnership and cooperation agreements with all third countries has become standard? If this interpretation is incorrect, how should EU policy on this question be described? 2. Is it proposed to include a non-proliferation clause in accordance with the above documents in the new EU‑India partnership and cooperation agreement? Does a non-proliferation clause form part of the negotiating mandate for the new agreement with India? If not, why not? Does the Commission consider that omitting the clause will strengthen the impact of the EU Strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and consequently of the Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT)? 3. How is India's position in relation to international agreements in the area of disarmament and arms control for weapons of mass destruction, in particular nuclear weapons, viewed? Is India's position in accordance with the provisions of the EU Strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction? How is the danger of a regional military conflict with Pakistan over the Kashmir region assessed? How great is the danger of a nuclear war between the two countries? 4. In the light of the provisions of the above Council documents, how is the US‑India nuclear cooperation agreement viewed? Do the Council and Commission recommend lifting sanctions against India in the nuclear field? What position should EU Member States belonging to the Nuclear Suppliers Group adopt with regard to the planned agreement between the US and India? Does the Commission consider that omitting the clause will strengthen the impact of the EU Strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and consequently of the Non-proliferation Treaty (NPT)? 5. Which EU Member States cooperate with India in the nuclear field? Is cooperation among individual EU Member States in the nuclear field proposed? If so, which?