and Belarusian democratic opposition as well as to discredit the EU assistance to Belarus civil society, E. whereas the Belarusian authorities have systematically refused to register on a national level almost all human rights organizations in the country ("Viasna" was denied registration three times over the past years), and as a result and due to the fact that foreign aid to the nongovernmental organizations in Belarus is subject of permission of the Belarusian authorities, the human rights defenders, in order to effectively provide help to the representatives of the independent civil society, are forced to open accounts in the neighbouring countries, F. whereas there are recently reported persecutions of human rights defenders and activists campaigning for the release of Mr Bialatski, such as, arrests, detentions, interrogations, imposition of fines or confiscation of printed materials, G. whereas Mr Bialatski´s case is a part of the broader pattern of the ongoing and longstanding harassment of civil society and human rights defenders following the presidential elections in December 2010 and leading to a dramatic decline in human rights and civil and political liberties in Belarus, 1. Expresses its deep concern over the deteriorating situation of human rights defenders in Belarus; strongly condemns the recent arrest and allegations against Ales Bialatski, Chairman of the Human Rights Centre ‘Viasna; 2. Deplores that the Belarusian authorities continuously refuse to grant legal status to independent human rights organisations in the country making it impossible for them to operate, by introducing repressive laws aiming to silence civil society activities, and then use the threat of criminal sanctions to intimidate human rights defenders; 3. Believes, in this context, given the unprecedented crackdown on civil society in Belarus following the Presidential elections in December 2010, that the criminal case against Mr Bialatski is politically motivated and intends to obstruct his legitimate work as human rights defender; 4. Demands that Mr Bialatski is unconditionally and immediately released from custody and that the investigation and all the charges against him are dropped; 5. Urges the Belarusian authorities to halt all forms of harassment against Mr Bialatski, "Viasna" and its staff as well as other human rights defenders and civil society organizations in the country; 6. Considers that the Belarusian law as well as the international mechanisms have been intentionally misused and treated instrumentally by the Belarusian authorities; 7. Calls on the Belarusian authorities to comply with all the provisions of the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights Defenders; 8. Calls on the Belarusian authorities to ensure in all circumstances the respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and with international and regional human rights instruments ratified by Belarus; 9. Urges the Belarusian authorities to reform the law and to bring Belarusian legislation, in particular on freedom of association and freedom of expression, in conformity with international standards and, meanwhile, to refrain from its further misuse; 10. Emphasises that, in the light of the continuous, unprecedented repression of the opposition and civil society in Belarus, the EU needs to support democracy building in Belarus