why we have this violence. Statistics say that every 4th or 5th women in her lifetime suffers physical violence and every 10th suffers sexual violence. You personally also have an experience with violence. What would you say to the victims? I want to say to all women living today in violent relationship: it is possible to leave this bad relationship and make your own life. I know how it is like. You blame yourself, he has control of everything and you are afraid every moment of the day and night. Imagine living and every moment of your life being afraid of the person you have a relationship with, you have been in love with, you have children with. He is the most important person in your life but he is your threat. So realize that you cannot accept it, you can leave this relationship and build a new life. Do you see in few months any EU legislation that could help the victims? Yes, we have a proposal concerning a European protection order. For example I come from Sweden. When I had experience with violence, I went to the police and they denied the perpetrator the right to be close to my apartment and working place. I even had a panic button that I could use if he came to my apartment. Thanks to this European protection order, if you have a decision from your home country and if you travel to other countries, you can show to local police authorities that you have the right to protection wherever you are in EU. Imagine…every moment of your life being afraid of the person you have a relationship with Eva-Britt Svensson Svensson profile International Women's Day Daphne Women's Rights and Gender Equality Fair chances for both men and women Facebook Flickr photos Giancarlo Scottà on food quality and country origin labels Italian MEP Giancarlo Scottà (Europe of Freedom and Democracy) 25 March resolution on upcoming CAP reform MEPs backed "Country of origin" labels for food European food quality logo also proposed Food quality and labelling are likely to be key issues when the Common Agriculture Policy is overhauled in the coming years. On 25 March MEPs called for "country of origin" marks and clearer food quality labels. We spoke to Italian MEP Giancarlo Scottà (Europe of Freedom and Democracy), about his report on the European Commission's proposals. There are several controversial aspects to your report - can we start with the "country of origin" mark. I come from a region (Veneto in Italy) where excellence in quality food has become a motor for tourism and gastro-tourism. There is a local economy around food and we are sure that there are similar areas to be promoted in the rest of Europe. The mark of origin allows you to connect a certain food with the land where it is produced. In this way you give the consumer the possibility to choose: I'm not saying that European food is better than others. I think it should be up to the consumer to decide. I go further.