closer to the Union, strengthening the only institutions which provide an interinstitutional channel recognised by the European citizens: petitions to Parliament and complaints to the Ombudsman. The European Parliament has recently adopted a report – following on from a special report by the European Ombudsman – on a code of good administrative conduct . When it is known how much importance the citizen attaches to contacts with the public administration (particularly if its geographically and often culturally remote) and the impression made on him by such contacts, one would expect to find in the White Paper few words by the Commission concerning relations and contacts between its administrative services and the European citizen and at least a nod in the direction of the code of good administrative conduct . The document does not appear to make any allusion to public access to documents produced by the European institutions, a potent means of achieving a transparency regarding the activities of the Community. The word transparency does occur in this document but only on one occasion (p. 14) in the following subtitle: 'making the functioning of the Union more transparent …… '. The Committee on Petitions would also have appreciated a clearer explanation of the ways in which the Commission and its decentralised agencies maintain a dialogue with the 'man in the street' explaining in clear, specific and comprehensible terms what Europe and its institutions are and what they do. A rapid glance through the White Paper leaves the reader with the impression that the Commission is seeking to communicate mainly through technological support and opinion-multiplier networks. While such an approach should not be neglected, we should not forget the importance of direct communication with the man in the street. The Commission may have something to learn regarding the potentially direct and immediate impact of advertising. Your rapporteur recalls that a long time ago posters were up everywhere in Brussels (when Belgium was introducing VAT) with the words 'VAT, a European tax', creating in the mind of the reader an association between the idea of taxes – an uncongenial notion and Europe. Concerning information and networks, the Commission makes only a brief reference to communication with schools, students or less favoured groups, for whom the message of solidarity, tolerance and non-discrimination, vital in establishing the Community’s public image, is intended. In conclusion, the Committee on Petitions considers that the Commission could, as the Committee on Petitions urges it to do in one of its reports, have referred to measures to end the harm being done to the environment and consumer interests, etc. in contravention of Community law. For all these reasons the Committee on Petitions – while greatly appreciating certain sections of the White Paper – cannot recommend it as the definitive bedtime book for European decision makers but rather occasional light reading, that is unless, the Commission is able to summon up greater generosity of spirit – and only experience will show whether it can – so as to lift it out of the rut of ‘bureaucratic technology’, which has in the recent