Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (27 November 2008) Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, OJ L 147, 31.5.2001. (transmissible spongiform encephalopathy (TSE) Regulation) provides the legal basis for the feeding of young animals of ruminant species with proteins derived from fish, subject to certain strict conditions. These conditions include a scientific assessment of the dietary needs of young ruminants and an assessment of the control aspects for such derogation. Fishmeal is an easily digested protein source, with a digestibility lower than milk but higher than most proteins of plant origin actually used in milk replacers. On 24 January 2007 the European Food Safety Authority adopted an opinion on the assessment of the health risks of feeding ruminants with fishmeal in relation to the risk of TSE. The opinion concluded that the risk of TSE in fish, either being fed directly or by amplification of infectivity is remote. In addition very strict processing rules are imposed on the production of fishmeal and the controls are in place on each consignment of imported fishmeal before release for free circulation in the Community. To ensure that the use of fishmeal is only used for young animals of ruminant species, the use of fish meal in young ruminant feed is limited to the production of milk replacers intended for feeding to young animals of ruminant species as a supplement to, or substitute for, post-colostral milk before weaning is complete. In addition strict rules for implementation should be imposed on the production, packaging, labelling and transport of milk replacers containing fishmeal intended for such animals. Based on scientific assessment and strict processing conditions, the introduction of the use of fish meal in milk replacers for young ruminants will maintain the high level of consumer protection built up over the years in the field of prevention, control and eradication of TSEs.