the result of an extensive consultation process involving policyholders and regulators and was developed under intense publicity. EMAG called it a " massive consultation process that was just cosmetic PR window dressing " (WE 75). In ES 3 it is also emphasised that there was a certain degree of time pressure because a payment of £250 million by Halifax was conditional upon a compromise becoming effective by 1 March 2002. Hence, " the time available for the completion of the development and the approval of the scheme was much shorter than a scheme of such complexity would normally require " (ES 3 Page 29. ). The Scheme finally met with the approval of an overwhelming majority of each class GAR and non-GAR policyholders were in different voting classes. of Equitable's policyholders. It is notable that Mr Justice Lloyd rejected the suggestion that overseas policyholders should be treated as a separate class for the purposes of voting for the compromise agreement. The arguments for this decision are outlined in ES 3, pages 32 and 33. Nor were the with-profits annuitants treated as a separate class. The compromise scheme took legal effect on 8 February 2002 after approval by the High Court. The Society estimates that when the Compromise Scheme took effect, " there were still close to a million people with an interest in the with-profits fund ", although a significant number of policyholders had left during 2001 (WE 47 Page 2. ). Equitable's Board claimed at the time that the Scheme involved "fair value compensation to GAR policyholders based on a ‘realistic estimate’ of the value of their legal rights given up ..., it apportions the compensation to different GAR policyholders in accordance with their rights; it reduces that compensation by the value of any possible claim for compensation given up by the non-GAR policyholders and the compensation takes the form of a proportionate increase in GAR policyholders’ policy values in both guaranteed and non-guaranteed form " (WE 29 see WE 29, page 19. ). By contrast, representatives of policyholders claimed that the scheme was " inequitable " Addendum to petition 29/2005 dated 9 November 2005 concerning FSA and FOS; page 2. and that it " deliberately obfuscated and discounted legal advice [indicating] that policyholders without [GAR] had a strong case for mis-selling" A second submission to the inquiry conducted by Lord Penrose into the lessons that can be learned from the Equitable Life debacle - a case study in serial regulatory failure by the government and its agent, the Financial Services Authority; EMAG; 27 March 2003; page 50. . In particular, EMAG considers in WE-CONF 16 that the first across-the-board cut in values of 16% in July 2001 - which in its view was not only a result of the lost GAR case and a fall in stock markets but also (to a large extent) a consequence of a decade of over-bonusing by ELAS - fell unfairly upon more recent non-GAR policyholders, who had not previously benefited from over-bonusing as did pre-1990 (predominantly GAR) policyholders. As outlined under point II.3., Mr