Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (24 January 2006) 1. As the Commission mentioned in the answer to the Honourable Member's previous written question E‑2364/05 , there are two main reasons for supporting renewable energies: — to compensate for the benefits that are generated for society at large but for which the producers do not receive monetary compensation (i.e. to internalise external benefits such as the avoidance of environmental costs and the contribution to innovation, employment and growth), and — to compensate for the non-competitive status that they currently have (with the exception of large hydro installations). The timeframe for providing support for renewable energies will therefore depend on the evolution of these two aspects, including the creation of a level playing-field with other energy sources. In that context, the Commission adopted on 7 December 2005 a Communication on the support of renewable energy. 2. The evaluation of externalities is a complex subject and there are very different studies on that subject. Nevertheless, it is useful to mention the Commission research project on the externalities of energy (ExternE Web site: www.externe.info ). It is also important to mention that, in 2001, the Commission adopted the Community guidelines on state aid for environmental protection 2001/C37/03. which includes a quantification of 0.05 EUR /kWh (euro per kilowatt‑hour) of the maximum amount of aid to compensate for externalities created by the renewable energy sources. 3. As the Commission mentioned in the answer to the Honourable Member's previous written question E‑2364/05 , the World Energy, Technology and Climate Policy Outlook (WETO) study is one of several studies regarding the evolution of renewables. There are many other sources such as the European, Green‑X model Green-X: ‘Deriving Optimal Promotion Strategies for increasing the share of RES-E in a Dynamic European Electricity Market.’ (Web site: http://www.green-x.at) or the WETO published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). There is a not a clear‑cut answer on the question of the exact timing for competitiveness of the different renewable energies. The different costs of renewable (different by technology sector and also by countries) will evolve depending on technological learning, breakthroughs and economies of scale. The Directorate‑General for Energy and Transport is currently working on a long-term high renewable scenario which will include dynamic curves on the evolution of renewable energies. Results will be available by spring 2006.