health topics like hot flashes, PMS, anxiety, and chronic fatigue.", " Her most recent book is Hormone Revolution, written with Kimberly S. Day.", " She has also been featured in many publications, including Real Simple, Reader’s Digest, Better Homes & Gardens, New Woman, Family Circle, Shape, The New York Times, and The San Francisco Chronicle." ] ], [ "Gail Godwin", [ "Gail Godwin (born June 18, 1937) is an American novelist and short story writer.", " Godwin has written 14 novels, two short story collections, three non-fiction books, and ten libretti.", " Her primary literary accomplishments are her novels, which have included five best-sellers and three finalists for the National Book Award.", " Most of her books are realistic fiction novels that follow a character's psychological and intellectual development, often based on themes taken from Godwin's own life." ] ], [ "D. H. Lawrence", [ "David Herbert Lawrence (11 September 1885 – 2 March 1930) was an English novelist, poet, playwright, essayist, literary critic and painter.", " His collected works represent, among other things, an extended reflection upon the dehumanising effects of modernity and industrialisation.", " Some of the issues Lawrence explores are sexuality, emotional health, vitality, spontaneity, and instinct." ] ], [ "Health education", [ "Health education is a profession of educating people about health.", " Areas within this profession encompass environmental health, physical health, social health, emotional health, intellectual health, and spiritual health." ] ], [ "Auriculotherapy", [ "Auriculotherapy (also auricular therapy, ear acupuncture, and auriculoacupuncture) is a form of alternative medicine based on the idea that the ear is a microsystem, which reflects the entire body, represented on the auricle, the outer portion of the ear.", " Conditions affecting the physical, mental or emotional health of the patient are assumed to be treatable by stimulation of the surface of the ear exclusively.", " Similar mappings are used in many areas of the body, including the practices of reflexology and iridology.", " These mappings are not based on or supported by any medical or scientific evidence." ] ], [ "Elizabeth Shin", [ "Elizabeth Shin (February 16, 1980 – April 14, 2000) was a Massachusetts Institute of Technology student who died from burns inflicted by a fire in her dormitory room.", " Her death led to a lawsuit against MIT and controversy as to whether MIT paid adequate attention to its students' mental and emotional health, and whether MIT's suicide rate was abnormally high.", " Although her death was first thought to be a suicide, both MIT and her parents have stated that it may have been an accident as a stipulation of the amicable settlement between MIT and the Shins." ] ], [ "The Jed Foundation", [ "The Jed Foundation is a non-profit organization working to promote emotional health and prevent suicide among college and university students." ] ] ] }