Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (24 September 2009) The Commission has repeatedly stated that it condemns and rejects any manifestation of homophobia and discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, as it is incompatible with the principles that the EU is based upon. The Commission fights this phenomenon based on the powers conferred by the Treaties to do so. As regards the protection of rights on the grounds of discrimination protected under Article 13 of the EC Treaty Directive 2000/78/EC OJ L 303, 2.12.2000. lays down a general framework for combating discrimination on the grounds of religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation as regards employment and occupation. While the Commission is of the view that problems still remain with transposition, the Commission notes that the Italian laws transposing the directive cover satisfactory protection against sexual orientation discrimination. Under the directive, the prohibition of discrimination remains, however, limited to the employment sphere. Therefore, the Commission adopted, on 2 July 2008, a proposal for a new directive COM(2008)426 final. which would prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation outside employment (education, health, social protection and social security, access to goods and services) and which is currently under discussion in Council. As regards EU funding for the fight against discrimination, the Commission supports national activities through the European Social Fund managed at national level and through the ‘Antidiscrimination and diversity’ strand of the Progress programme, based on a decision of the Council and Parliament for the period 2007‑13 (Decision 1672/2006/EC OJ L 315, 15.11.2006. ). Under the latter, an annual call for proposals targeting national authorities is published over the period 2007‑13. The projects supported do not obligatorily cover all the grounds of discrimination listed in Article 13 of the Treaty. However, the call's guidelines request Member States to consult non-governmental organisations covering all grounds of discrimination before submitting their application and to make a clear link between the project and national priorities in this field.