Recital 34 (34) Cooperation between Member States, the Commission, and with third states is essential to ensure that IUU fishing is properly investigated and that the measures laid down in the present Regulation can be applied; a system for mutual assistance shall be established to enhance such cooperation. (34) Cooperation , coordination and the exchange of good practices between Member States, the Commission, and with third states is essential to ensure that IUU fishing is properly investigated and that the measures laid down in the present Regulation can be applied; a system for mutual assistance shall be established to enhance such cooperation. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 37 (37) This regulation identifies IUU fishing as violations of applicable laws, rules or regulations of particular gravity, as they seriously undermine the attainment of the objectives of the violated rules and put the sustainability of the stocks concerned or the conservation of the marine environment in jeopardy. Given its restricted scope, the implementation of this Regulation must rely on, and be complementary to, that of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93, which establishes the basic framework for the control and monitoring of fishing activities under the Common Fisheries Policy. Accordingly, this Regulation reinforces the rules of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 in the area of port inspections of third country vessels (Article 28e, 28f and 28g), which are now abrogated and replaced by the port inspection regime established in Chapter II of this Regulation. In addition, this Regulation provides for a regime of sanctions in Chapter X that applies specifically to IUU fishing activities. The provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 relating to sanctions (Article 31) remain thus applicable to violations of the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy other than those addressed by this Regulation. (37) This regulation identifies IUU fishing as violations of applicable laws, rules or regulations of particular gravity, as they seriously undermine the attainment of the objectives of the violated rules and put the survival of fishermen operating legally, the sustainability of the sector and of the stocks concerned and the conservation of the marine environment in jeopardy. Given its restricted scope, the implementation of this Regulation must rely on, and be complementary to, that of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93, which establishes the basic framework for the control and monitoring of fishing activities under the Common Fisheries Policy. Accordingly, this Regulation reinforces the rules of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 in the area of port inspections of third country vessels (Article 28e, 28f and 28g), which are now abrogated and replaced by the port inspection regime established in Chapter II of this Regulation. In addition, this Regulation provides for a regime of sanctions in Chapter X that applies specifically to IUU fishing activities. The provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 relating to sanctions (Article 31) remain thus applicable to violations of the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy other than those addressed by this Regulation. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Article 1, paragraph 2 2. To this end, each Member State shall take appropriate measures, in accordance with