Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (9 June 2006) The European Community (EC) is a full member of the Codex Alimentarius Commission since the end of 2003 Council Decision 2003/822/EC of 17 November 2003 on the accession of the European Community to the Codex Alimentarius Commission, OJ L 309, 26.11.2003. where it is represented by the Commission. The division of competence between the EC and its Member States and the corresponding right to vote are determined for each item under discussion according to the level of harmonisation of the legislation at European level. Following the accession of the EC to the Codex Alimentarius Commission, the weight of European positions has very much increased due to improved coordination and preparation. As regards traceability/product tracing, it was decided that the competence was mixed, with the EC having the right to vote on behalf of its members, as this field was to a large extent harmonised in European legislation. At codex level, the first step consisted in agreeing on a definition of traceability/product tracing The ability to follow the movement of a food through specified stage(s) of production, processing and distribution. which was not an easy task as many Codex members feared that traceability could be used as a trade barrier. The second step, which consisted in drafting principles for traceability, remained blocked for a long time due to the opposition of many Codex members. The EC delegation hosted a three-day codex working group in Brussels, chaired by Australia and co-chaired by Norway and Argentina, which resulted in a set of principles which were further agreed by the Codex Committee on Food Import and Export Inspection and Certification Systems in November 2005. These principles are now proposed for final adoption (accelerated procedure) by the 29th Session of the Codex Alimentarius Commission in July 2006. The text of these principles is available at the following address (pages 43-44 of the English version): http://www.codexalimentarius.net/download/report/647/al29_30e.pdf As the principles to be adopted by Codex do not contradict European legislation, the rules applicable at European level will remain unchanged and are still as described in the Commission’s reply to the Honourable Member’s previous Written Question E‑3637/05 .