of view, the resources for the environment policy area will slightly (+7%) increase in 2007 compared to 2006. However, the big increase in the form of earmarking funds within LIFE+ for the management of Natura 2000, as the Parliament hoped for in first reading, did not take place. Parliament had to settle for the principle of integrating the Natura 2000 financing into the cohesion and rural development funds. This leaves the final decision and responsibility to each Member State on how much EU funding is allocated to the management of Natura 2000. The principle of mainstreaming the environment objectives to other policies is extremely important. It will not, however, take place automatically and without political effort, as other political priorities compete with the environment for the same funds. The same applies, at least to a certain extent, to eco-innovation measures under the Research and the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme and international activities under Heading 4. Health and food safety are placed under Heading 3b, Citizenship, the smallest of all the headings under the new financial framework. Compared to the negotiating position agreed by Member States on Financial Perspectives in December 2005 which would have left the activities under this heading seriously underfunded, the Parliament managed to slightly improve the situation in the negotiations with the Council this spring. In reality, the achieved increase is barely sufficient to keep the funding of the health and food safety policy area at its present, modest level. The situation will be at its worst in 2007. The Health Programme will suffer most, despite the large support by the Parliament in first reading to allocate considerably more funds to it than before and make it thus a clear political priority. Surprisingly, when compared to the original Commission proposal for a joint health and consumer policy programme 2007-2013, the amount now proposed for the Health Programme, has been reduced by a greater amount than the reduction made to the Consumer protection programme. In the original proposal, the breakdown of funds for the health and consumer policy programmes was 80/20 and now when the programme is split into two, the breakdown is 70/30. In 2007, this would mean a clearly reduced budget for the Health Programme compared to this year (€40 million instead of €55,4million). The fact is that the two agencies, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and the European Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), who are still in their development phase, will take 57% of the total funding for the Health, consumer policy and food safety policy area in 2007 and more than 60% during the whole of the 2007-2013 period. Even with these figures, the allocated amounts can only be considered as appropriate minimums. It should also be remembered that some activities that are now financed through the Health Action Programme (for instance, the surveillance networks) will be managed and financed by the ECDC in the future. Given that the margin in Heading 3b is very small, there will not be much room for new political initiatives with financial consequences in the health, consumer protection and