Question for written answer E-008932/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Thijs Berman (S&D) (10 October 2011) Subject: Sugar cane in Malawi The European Union is committed to the cause of improving the working conditions of workers in developing countries. Moreover, ‘policy coherence for development’ is an explicit requirement applying to all European policies. EU funding of new industries in developing countries should be in line with development objectives. Under the Accompanying Measures for Sugar, the EU is contributing EUR 10.6 million to the production of sugar cane in Malawi. As stated on the website of the EU delegation to the Republic of Malawi, the EU is currently supporting a ‘Sugar Cane Outgrowers’ Irrigated Scheme’ in the central and southern regions of the country, the so-called ‘designated cane growing areas’ such as Dwanga. Recent and worrying information on this programme raises the following questions: — Why does the EU contribute to sugar cane production in Malawi? — Is it correct that the farmers in the ‘designated cane-growing areas’ were forced to change their crops to sugar cane? — How have these farmers been assisted during this transition? Have they received any compensation for the costs of this transition, such as the purchase of the necessary specialised machines? — Is it correct that the farmers entered into a contract with a ‘Cane Growers’ Trust’, and if so, what are the conditions of this contract and how long is it valid? — Is it correct that, under their contract, farmers are obliged to buy all their inputs from the Trust, and, for instance, is fertiliser sold to the farmers at prices much higher than market prices? — How is the price of sugar cane determined, and what part of it goes to the farmers? Are there multiple buyers competing with each other, which competition could be beneficial to the farmers? — How do the farmers profit from additional revenue from the production of sugar, for example from ethanol and electricity from bagasse? — Does the Commission intend to take action so as to redress this situation in Malawi in accordance with the requirements of fair working conditions, fair trade and a development-oriented approach to the production of sugar cane?