and new functionalities, as foreseen in the legal basis, in order to reinforce the security of European citizens and guarantee efficient border controls at external borders, while ensuring the completion and coherence of the Schengen acquis ; 2. Expresses deep concern at the delays in the start of operations of both the SIS II and the VIS systems; 3. Asks to be informed by the Commission and the Council of the results of the technical milestone 1 test, due to take place on 22 December, immediately after its completion and to be informed without delay as to the future steps to be taken; 4. Calls for full transparency as regards the implementation process, also concerning the financial aspects, and asks to be informed, as co-legislator, whether the so-called milestone 1 and 2 tests are still within the scope of the present SIS II development contract or whether they will have to be treated as additional requirements, and what extra costs are envisaged in this case; 5. Asks to know if any penalties have been imposed on the contractor for the delays and technical errors that led to the failure of the earlier tests and, if so, what the amount of these was; asks, moreover, to be informed of the extra costs involved in these delays and technical errors in terms of the need to carry out the new tests and the extended timetable for the deployment of SIS II; 6. Calls for concerted and coordinated efforts from the Commission and the Member States to avoid the scenario that happened in connection with the development of the SIS II being repeated in relation to the VIS; 7. Asks the Commission and the Council to give a reasoned explanation of the grounds on which they continue to have confidence in the current contractor and in its ability to take the VIS and SIS II systems forward successfully and without further delays; 8. Stresses that the Commission and the Council must involve the European Parliament in any decision related to the development of SIS II and VIS, in particular if the results of the tests are not satisfactory, thus leading to a change of direction regarding both the SIS II and the VIS projects, which might include cancelling the present contract with the company responsible for them; 9. Calls on the Commission to clarify whether any cancellation of the contract will automatically lead, in the case of the SIS II project, to the back-up or contingency solution being implemented, and to outline the possible effects on the VIS project; 10. Stresses that the European Parliament must be kept constantly informed of the state of play as regards the deployment of SIS II and VIS; 11. Instructs its relevant committee to monitor this issue closely and to prepare a follow-up resolution for plenary as soon as new developments warrant it, and at the latest after the completion of the milestone 1 test; 12. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States.