WRITTEN QUESTION E-6105/09 by Hannu Takkula (ALDE) to the Commission (4 December 2009) Subject: IT support for older people In 2007 the Commission adopted the European action plan ‘Ageing well in the Information Society’ in response to the challenge presented by the ageing of the population. The same matter has also been dealt with in Finland by means of a Leader+ project, ‘Older people as users of technological equipment and services’. This is an important subject, as IT skills are vital from the point of view of equality in the EU Member States and their societies. At its best, IT can help older people to live independently. Nowadays many ordinary everyday transactions such as paying bills, obtaining information, making purchases and communication, are increasingly performed with the aid of computers and other technological services. Banking and many other services as well have moved onto the Internet, and particularly in sparsely populated areas traditional services may no longer necessarily exist which can provide an alternative to these Internet-based services. The technology gives older people a variety of stimuli which keep their minds active, for example conversation partners, distance learning and opportunities to pursue hobbies. Research indicates that, with the aid of this technology it is possible to create aids which facilitate living at home, to make the residential environment more ergonomic and to monitor older people's vital functions in everyday circumstances. This can extend the period for which people can easily continue to live at home. In future, these aids will be linked to robotics and monitoring of people's vital functions. Various types of robot have already been developed, for instance a lawn-mower and a vacuum cleaner. Smart goods and smart clothing are coming onto the market. The use of computers will also be rendered easier by speech recognition programs. The role of technology is increasingly central to various areas of life. Yet to many older people, the use of technology remains alien. Problems are caused, in particular, by the rapid development of technology and the way in which it tends to be tailored for use by the younger generation. Older people ought therefore to familiarise themselves with new technology and learn how to use new services so that they can maintain their independence. Older people are not afraid of technology, and they wish, for example, to use computers. They often also accept equipment which is of evident use in practical life, for example in maintaining contact with family members. However, older people have not gained knowledge and experience of the opportunities which IT has to offer, nor do they commonly receive guidance on how to use IT. What success has the Commission had with its efforts to meet the challenge presented by the ageing of the European population and what new measures are planned in this and related fields?