a " two-speed " audiovisual sector. The current directive on " TV without frontiers " (which dates from 1989 and was amended in 1997) stipulates a majority of broadcasting time to be reserved for programmes produced in Europe and 10% by " independent producers ". In adopting an own-initiative report by Henri WEBER (PSE, FR) on the application of Articles 4 and 5 of this directive, the Parliament notes that "indicators in all but a few cases show a rise in the programming of European works". Referring to the Commission communication on the future of the European regulatory audiovisual policy, the report adds: "The broadcasting quotas for European works and works of independent producers have been broadly complied with." Nevertheless, it describes this picture as not entirely accurate due to "major discrepancies among methods of implementing and interpreting the provisions". MEPs consider that operators of new services should also be obliged to promote European works and independent productions - provided that the directive's scope is extended. Parliament also emphasises the need to preserve limits for advertisement breaks. On information society, MEPs call for media literacy programmes to promote citizenship in Europe. MEPs stress the importance of gathering information on satellite and cable channels, which are often left out of national reports. Any persistent failure to comply with the provisions or to provide information should be sanctioned, the report adds. Parliament is also concerned "that our audiovisual space is being exploited better by American producers than by the Europeans themselves - even though Europeans are more productive in terms of documentaries and fiction". MEPs are worried that "the imbalance in the movement of audiovisual works jeopardises cultural diversity". Although most of the quotas for " European works " are filled by national programmes, MEPs are opposed to any expansion of the current quota system. They prefer voluntary initiatives for further quotas on works from other European countries. The report also calls for more precise definitions of " European works ", " independent producer " and "specialist channel". Anticipating the Commission's new draft directive on " TV without Frontiers ", due to be launched this autumn, MEPs argue that a review is "necessary and urgent in order to face up to structural changes". They fear that purely economic considerations will prevail and are concerned about inter-governmental horse-trading. They emphasise that "the market alone will not resolve the problems". Noting the risk of a "two -speed" audiovisual sector emerging, MEPs also conclude that "more choice does not necessarily mean either better quality or greater quantity of European works", even if "digitalisation and interactivity represent opportunities for both the industry and the consumers". Parliament concluded that the " European audiovisual model " must balance a strong, independent and pluralistic public service sector with a dynamic, and equally pluralistic, commercial sector. Public access to quality content is becoming ever more crucial in the context of technological change and an increasingly competitive and globalised environment. Press enquiries: David Zelinger (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73477 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 31056 e-mail : cult-press@europarl.eu.int Industry €1 billion for Galileo satellite system Etelka