the Memorandum of Understanding of 10 June 2005 between Commissioner Peter MANDELSON and Chinese Trade Minister Bo XILAI aimed at limiting Chinese textile exports. But MEPs want to go further and called on the Commission and Council to " extend the coverage of the agreement to other categories, where necessary, and to give transparency on the calculation basis of the export limitations". Parliament want to see a more extensive textile trade reform with an opening up of markets, but stressed that China is not competing on equal terms, causing job losses both in the EU and in developing countries. MEPs therefore call for the introduction of measures in accordance with WTO TRIPS agreement on combating counterfeiting and pirating, and for the Commission to ensure that such measures are implemented by the Chinese government. They also called on the Commission to enforce the terms of trade agreements whereby exporters to the EU are supposed to comply with international norms on workers' rights and environmental standards. They also wanted more clarity on textile production sites involving European companies and the labour standards they apply. To address the slow-down in the European textile industry and safeguard its future and competitiveness, Parliament called for a European transitional textile plan to assist in restructuring and retraining for the entire textile and clothing sector, especially aimed at small and medium-sized firms. Therefore present levels of the Structural Funds for textile regions should be maintained. It would also like to see a Euro-Mediterranean production area established. This area would be supported by a programme for research, innovation and cooperation and a common customs framework. MEPs want the Commission to study measures aimed at keeping textile production not only in the Euro-Mediterranean area, but also in the enlargement countries and in the countries covered by the Neighbourhood Policy. But MEPs also called for the long-term interests of European importers to be taken into account. Press enquiries: Marjory van den Broeke (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74337 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 44304 Mobile: (32) 0498.983.586 e-mail : foreign-press@europarl.eu.int Culture Cultural diversity requires balance in TV production Henri WEBER (PES, FR) Report on the application of Articles 4 and 5 of Directive 89/552/EEC (the ”TV without Frontiers” Directive), as amended by Directive 97/36/EC, for the period 2001-2002 (2004/2236(INI)) Doc.: A6-0202/2005 Procedure : Own-initiative Vote : 06.09.2005 Parliament supports the envisaged overhaul of the current " TV without Frontiers " directive to preserve the " European audiovisual model " and reflect the digital era. A closer watch must be kept on new developments in the constantly evolving broadcasting industry in order to guarantee cultural diversity, MEPs concluded. "Competition is not enough to ensure pluralism", the Parliament stressed with a view to the flood of US programmes said to jeopardise cultural diversity or to the risk of a " two-speed " audiovisual sector. The current directive on " TV without frontiers " (which dates from 1989 and was amended in 1997) stipulates a majority of broadcasting time to be reserved for programmes produced in Europe and 10% by " independent producers ". In adopting an own-initiative report