Reply (15 September 2010) The rules applied by the Council regarding access to EU classified information are set out in the Council Decision of 18 June 2007 OJ L 101, 11.4.2001, p. 1, as last amended by Council Decision of 18 June 2007 (OJ L 164, 26.6.2007, p. 24). . According to these rules, a member of personnel may have access to Council information classified as Restreint UE provided he or she has an established need to know the specific piece of information concerned for the purposes of carrying out his or her official duties or missions, and has been briefed on the rules governing the protection of classified information beforehand. The responsibility for determining a member of personnel's ‘need-to-know’ lies with the member of personnel's hierarchical superiors. Access to a specific piece of EU classified information is therefore not authorised per EU ‘unit’ as such, but to each member of personnel working therein, as required. Access to Council information classified as Confidentiel UE or above is subject not only to the specific ‘need-to-know’ and prior briefing as described above, but also to the member of personnel having the appropriate level of security clearance for access to EU classified information. For access to Council classified information by members of personnel in the Member States the same principle of prior briefing and ‘need-to-know’ applies, as determined by the member of personnel's hierarchical superiors within that Member State, as well as, where appropriate, the security clearance requirement. According to the same regulations, Member States create their own national classified information and may decide to share it with the EU institutions. The Member State may give it a national or an EU classification marking. Once such information enters the EU structures or networks, it retains the original national classification marking and is henceforth protected as EU classified information of the same level. The originating Member State may specify certain limits on distribution according to subject matter or time-frame, for instance. As for security rules of the other EU institutions, the Honourable Member is invited to address his questions to them.