to the ETF start-up facility and the SME Guarantee facility, together with a simplification of the JEV programme, H. whereas as at end-year 2000, 31.4% of overall available venture capital investment within Europe was invested in high technology companies, I. whereas the European Investment Bank (EIB) took a controlling interest in the European Investment Fund (EIF) during early 2000, J. whereas there has been a low level of activity regarding this initiative during late 1999 and early 2000, a time which appears to correspond to the restructuring period of the EIF, K. whereas the 1999 Commission Report recorded that the EIF expected the ETF Start-up Facility to have 25-30 venture capital funds from all fifteen Member States, L. whereas France and Germany account for over half of the take-up of investments in both the ETF Start-up and the SME Guarantee Facility, M. whereas the total number of SMEs benefiting from the SME Guarantee facility has surged to 40,778 by comparison with 7,223 the previous year, and is currently increasing at a rate of 8000 per quarter, N. whereas the ETF Start-up facility has recorded an actual increase of 785 jobs in the 71 investee SMEs that received an investment before the end of 1999 or early 2000, i.e. an average of 11 new jobs per company, while the SME Guarantee facility is forecasting an increase of 19,084 new jobs within one year and a further 33,934 within the second year, representing an average of 1.3 new jobs per company, O. whereas, in its resolution of 16 January 2001, Parliament asked for subsequent annual Commission Reports to be made available to Parliament earlier than the end of May the following year, P. whereas the EIF sends quarterly progress reports to the Commission, but not to Parliament, 1. Welcomes generally the content and analysis within the thorough and more comprehensive 2000 Report, and commends the Commission and the EIF where progress has been made; 2. Observes that the 2000 Report was not however officially published until mid-July 2001, after the start of Parliament's summer recess, even later than the 1999 Report, which Parliament complained was too late; 3. Notes that the ETF start-up facility now comprises 10 contracts signed by the EIF, 2 under process and a further 5 approved in principle, altogether covering just eight Member States rather than the fifteen confidently predicted; 4. Welcomes the extra operational efforts being attempted by the EIF to stimulate activity in the seven Member States not currently covered by successful ETF start-up proposals; 5. Wishes to see similar efforts being focused on the candidate countries, where appropriate; 6. Congratulates the EIF on the very significant increase in take-up of the SME guarantee facility; 7. Seeks fuller information on the impact of the global technology stock-market downturn upon the specific prospects and valuations of certain of the programme's final investee SMEs, and the consequent changes, if any, in investment policy in the year ahead; 8. Endorses the revisions to the MAP agreed by the Council in December 2000, observes with surprise that there was no prior discussion