27 September 2001 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Isabelle Caullery on behalf of the UEN Group on the Stability and Growth Pact and the informal ECOFIN of 22 and 23 September 2001 in Liège European Parliament resolution on the Stability and Growth Pact and the informal ECOFIN of 22 and 23 September 2001 in Liège The European Parliament, – having regard to the terrorist attacks perpetrated in the USA on 11 September 2001, – having regard to the recent declarations calling for a relaxation of the conditions for the application of the Stability Pact, – having regard to the conclusions of the meeting of the Euro Group on Friday, 21 September 2001, A. whereas a criminal operation on this scale can only be the work of a terrorist organisation which has substantial funds at its disposal, B. whereas the criminal attacks perpetrated in the United States on 11 September 2001 will inevitably have serious repercussions on a world economic situation which was already critical before the attacks, C. whereas the globalisation of the economy represents a challenge to the Member States of the European Union, D. whereas one of the main characteristics of economic globalisation is the liberalisation of the movement of capital, E. whereas the opening-up of national economies to international competition is a positive phenomenon and represents an opportunity to be grasped by the Member States of the European Union, 1. Condemns with the utmost severity the criminal attacks perpetrated in the United States on 11 September 2001; 2. Calls on the Council and Member States to do everything in their power to trace the financial root system of international terrorism, and particularly to dismantle money-laundering networks which help to finance terrorist organisations; 3. Approves, in this context, the proposal to expand the powers of the OECD’s Financial Action Task Force (FATF); 4. Urges that the European Union and Member States impose exemplary economic sanctions on states which in any way support terrorist movements or connive with them; 5. Calls on the European Union and Member States likewise to provide substantial economic aid to Islamic states which have committed themselves to combating fundamentalist terrorism in tandem with the international coalition which is emerging; 6. Deplores the excessive optimism displayed by the European political authorities in their assessment of the economic impact of the attacks in the United States; 7. Deplores the attitude adopted by the Commission which, unlike the American authorities, does not appear to have fully appreciated the impact of the attacks on certain sectors of the economy; 8. Considers inadequate the provisions of the code of conduct adopted by the Euro Group to finance the ‘war risks’ associated with insuring airlines; 9. Calls on the Commission to reconsider the possibility of supporting the sectors most affected by the current economic crisis, particularly by means of public aid; 10. Condemns the violent anti-globalisation protests and the movements which encourage them; 11. Notes the desire which has been clearly expressed in the Member States