Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (4 January 2011) The Commission intends to propose a Council recommendation on policies to reduce early school leaving. This recommendation will set out guidelines for coherent, comprehensive and evidence based policies against early school leaving. It aims to provide a reference framework to assist Member States to develop more effective policies against early school leaving, to support them in their implementation, and so to lead to a significant reduction in the rate of early school leaving in all Member States. It will be accompanied by a Commission Communication and a Staff Working Document on the causes and impacts of early school leaving, giving examples of effective policy measures to reduce it, and setting out how the EU can add value. The proposed recommendation will underline the need to establish a good evidence basis for developing effective and efficient policies against early school leaving. Current data often do not allow for detailed analyses which groups are concerned, for the identification of reasons, and how additional support could help them to maintain education and training. The collection of data and information can take different forms, depending on the structure of the school education system, the existing reporting and data collection mechanisms and the national data protection law. The Commission will not advise Member States on a specific approach to collect data and information or on setting up monitoring boards. The Commission will, however, keep track of progress in this domain as part of its general monitoring of the five key targets of its Europe 2020 strategy. Furthermore, as noticed by the Honourable Member, European programmes help contribute to tackle the issue of the school dropout by supporting concrete projects related to formal learning (the Lifelong Learning Programme) or to non-formal learning (the Youth in Action Programme); for example, a survey launched beginning of 2010 among a sample of 4 500 participants in the Youth in Action Programme (young people, youth workers, youth NGOs) revealed that 61 % of the young people having participated in a project supported by this Programme considered they had a clearer idea about their further educational path and that 84 % were planning to engage in further education opportunities (formal, non-formal, vocational) as a result of this project experience.