WRITTEN QUESTION E-4897/07 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) and Kartika Tamara Liotard (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (9 October 2007) Subject: Dependence of Netherlands public service broadcasting on state aid and the need to financially compensate at national level for EU measures in connection with state aid 1. Is the Commission familiar with the unique system which has existed in the Netherlands since the 1920s for the organisation, control and funding of radio and television public service broadcasting, a system under which associations of groups of citizens who share similar political views or religious beliefs provide the broadcasts? 2. Is the Commission familiar with the arrangements for financing the system referred to in the first question, under which, in addition to contributions from the members of the broadcasting organisations, the government provides a large share of the funding, without exercise of state influence (a share which, in the past, came from the levying of a special radio and television licence fee and which is now provided through funding from general taxation)? 3. Did the Commission expect that the EUR 80 million fine which it imposed in 2006 for what it regarded as over‑payment of state aid to public service broadcasters could really be paid from broadcasters' own resources without far-reaching consequences, and that the requirement to pay this money would not need to be offset by new state funding to enable broadcasters to continue to carry out their tasks and obligations unchanged? 4. Is the Commission aware that this EUR 80 million corresponds to 10 % of the annual budget for public service broadcasting in the Netherlands, and that, partly as a result of the declining revenues from the Stichting Ether Reclame (STER), which was founded in the 1960s, and earlier cuts in government funding, the loss of this part of the budget cannot be financed from remaining reserves? 5. Is the Commission aware that there is indignation in the Netherlands over the possibility that public service broadcasting may, as a result of intervention by the EU, no longer be able to operate fully effectively? 6. Does the Commission recollect that the Netherlands Government is defending the outcome of negotiations on the amending treaty replacing a draft constitution for the EU partly in the light of the expectation that in future the EU will no longer intervene in the organisation and funding of public services such as housing corporations and public broadcasting? Does the Commission share this expectation? 7. Is the Commission prepared, in proper consultation with the Netherlands Government, to avoid all action that could lead to the repeated occurrence of new causes of dissatisfaction with the complicated division of competences between the EU and its Member States and the impression that the EU puts up pointless obstacles?