such a declaration; 3. Notes with satisfaction that the Commission has initiated a process of reforming the RELEX Group, which must undertake to improve the impact of development aid and increase the effectiveness of its relations with developing countries in the light of its latest objective - to promote sustainable development in order to foster the eradication of poverty and the integration of these countries in the world economy; 4. Expresses, however, its fear that a separation between political responsibility and strategic programming of the implementation and monitoring of programmes may result in the marginalisation of development policy within the Commission; considers that political responsibilities must be reflected in the institution's structures; 5. Takes the view, in this context, that an integrated Community International Development Department should be made responsible for the whole cooperation cycle for the benefit of developing countries, covering the programmes for Africa, Latin America, the Mediterranean countries and Asia; 6. Considers it essential to solve the structural problem of the lack of human resources needed to manage development cooperation funds, and hence undertakes to allocate the relevant resources by means of the budgetary exercise; 7. Points out that small-scale projects have traditionally received the best scores in evaluations of EU aid performance; requests, accordingly, that such projects should in the future receive adequate staffing in order to be maintained and their number even be enlarged; 8. Calls on the Council, as one arm of the budgetary authority, to ensure that the financial provisions reflect the objectives of the Community's development policy; 9. Calls on the budgetary authority, in the coming financial years, to make provision for transferring a specific percentage for administrative expenditure to each operational budget line for development cooperation; 10. Considers it decisive that the Commission should, in the context of development policy, have sufficient and appropriately trained staff to ensure that the functions of reflection, analysis and making proposals can be carried out; 11. Calls on the Commission to submit to Parliament, during the first half of 2001, a report on the implementation of the various elements of the reform of RELEX; 12. Considers that the transfer of powers to the delegations constitutes an opportunity to create a system for on-the-spot management of development projects and appropriation and reinforcement of local capacity; is therefore in favour of rapid decentralisation to the benefit of the delegations, giving them the necessary IT infrastructure and boosting the human resources devoted to development policy; is also in favour of projects and programmes being taken over by beneficiaries, including the contracting of local agents, where conditions of good governance and democracy prevail; 13. Stresses the need for more specialised staff at the RELEX DGs in order to create specialists, in particular programming experts and sectoral experts; 14. Considers that the creation of the Common Service for External Relations (SCR) constituted a failed attempt to rationalise the administration of Community aid and that the unclear distribution of responsibilities between various departments reduced its effectiveness; in this context highlights the need to integrate the whole cooperation cycle and is in favour of