which deal with the rating or classification of audiovisual content, by whatever means it is delivered, with a view to enabling all users , but especially parents , teachers and trainers , to report illegal content and assess the content of audiovisual and on-line information services, as well as any legal content that could be detrimental to the physical or mental development of minors . Justification The Commission should encourage all producers or access providers from all Member States to exchange best practice through European associations or federations such as Euroispa. It should encourage the introduction of a requirement at European level for a description of the content on offer, and facilitate reporting of illegal sites and the assessment of potentially harmful sites. Amendment 16 Recital 8 (8) As suggested during the public consultation concerning Directive 97/36/EC, it is appropriate for the right of reply to apply to all electronic media. (8) As suggested during the public consultation concerning Directive 97/36/EC, it is appropriate for the right of reply to apply to all on-line media , taking into account the relevant specific features of the medium and service concerned . Justification Unlike, say, an entitlement to seek an injunction, the right of reply, as a matter of principle, may not only be exercised in relation to untrue or otherwise unlawful initial utterances, but also entails an obligation to publish an opposing view even when the statements made were true and lawful. It thus amounts to a considerable encroachment on editorial freedom in the medium concerned. Amendment 17 Recital 9 (9) The Council resolution of 5 October 1995 on the image of women and men portrayed in advertising and the media which invites the Member States and the Commission to take adequate measures to promote a diversified and realistic picture of the skills and potential of women and men in society. (9) The Council resolution of 5 October 1995 on the image of women and men portrayed in advertising and the media invites the Member States and the Commission to take adequate measures to promote a diversified and realistic picture of the skills and potential of women and men in society. Justification Improved wording. Amendment 18 Recital 10 (10) When tabling its proposal for a Council Directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services, the Commission noted that the portrayal of the sexes in the media and in advertising raises important questions about the protection of the dignity of men and women, but concluded that it would not be appropriate to address these questions in that proposal . (10) When tabling its proposal for a Council Directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between women and men in the access to and supply of goods and services, the Commission noted that the portrayal of the sexes in the media and in advertising raises important questions about the protection of the dignity of men and women, but concluded that , on account of other fundamental rights, especially media freedom and pluralism,