OJ L 27, 30.1.1997, p. 20. and of Directive 98/30/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 22 June 1998 concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas OJ L 204, 21.7.1998, p. 1. . They follow the conclusions of the Stockholm European Council of March 2001 concerning the development of the infrastuctures needed for the operation of the energy market. A special effort should be undertaken to achieve the objective of making greater use of renewable energy sources as a contribution to furthering a sustainable development policy. (3) As a rule the construction and maintenance of energy infrastructure should be subject to market principles. This is also in line with the Commission proposals for the completion of the internal market in energy and the common rules on competition law which aim at the creation of a more open and competitive internal energy market. (4) The creation of a competitive and integrated internal energy market can be achieved much more cost-effectively by revising current competition policy legislation than it can by merely increasing infrastructure capacity, since competition is often hindered not by bottlenecks, but by a lack of contestability in the markets or by oligopolistic concentration. (5) Energy infrastructure should be constructed and maintained so as to enable the internal energy market to operate efficiently, without detracting from strategic and universal service criteria. (6) The priorities also stem from the growing importance of the trans-European energy networks for diversifying the Community's gas supplies, incorporating the candidate countries' energy networks, and ensuring the coordinated operation of the electricity grids in Europe and the Mediterranean and Black Sea basins. (7) The need for an efficient integration of the candidate countries' energy networks will make it necessary for the Commission to present a proposal amending Decision No 1254/96/EC in due time before the accession of the first new Member States. (8) Among the projects relating to trans-European energy networks, it is necessary to highlight the priority projects, which are very important for the operation of the internal energy market or the security of energy supply. The development stage of priority projects on the energy networks should therefore also be able to qualify for higher financial aid without this leading to any increase in the Community funds set aside for energy networks in the 2003-2006 financial perspective. This aid is for priority projects on the energy networks carried out in individual undertakings, which are necessary in the interests of the European economy but unprofitable in business terms and which do not distort competition between undertakings. (9) It is necessary to adapt the procedure for identifying projects relating to trans-European energy networks in order to ensure the harmonious application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 of 18 September 1995 laying down general rules for the granting of Community financial aid in the field of trans-European networks. The Commission will submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council listing and describing the measures on the energy networks which are likely, in the event of an increase in Community financial aid from 10% to