the budgetary authority when the implementation diverts. 6. In order to follow this approach of monitoring, your Rapporteur suggests analysing in the report, the use the Commission makes of the different budgetary tools. SUPPLEMENTARY AND AMENDING BUDGETS (SABs) 7. The Commission, according to the current Financial Regulation, has the obligation to present one supplementary and amending budget (SAB) concerning the balance of the previous year, before the end of May. The reality of this year, before the presentation of the "official" SAB on the balance, has been different for various reasons: - SAB 1, 2002 concerning the Convention on the Future of Europe (procedure concluded); - SAB 2/2002 concerning the necessity to include in the budget, the Council's own resources decision finally ratified by all Member States. The Commission has added, in SAB2/2002, a forecast of the amount concerning the balance of 2001 to be returned to Member States. This amount has been estimated at €10 billion of payment appropriations (plus 1.2 billion already within B'2002) which were not implemented in 2001. On 25 April, EP adopted in its first reading two amendments in order to increase the payments on a number of lines by €4.5 billion and to avoid the cumulating of RAL. 8. In May the Commission should present a SAB III which will have to take the final surplus from the 2001 budget into account. Your Rapporteur wants the Preliminary Draft SAB 3/2002 to be presented by the Commission only after the procedure for the SAB 2/2002 is finalised. 9. During the adoption of Budget 2002, the budgetary authority quantified the possible needs for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, where funds will need to be put on the operational lines (currently 70 million left in the margin). Your Rapporteur considers that in a rigorous budgetary approach, the allocation of supplementary funds should not be automatic even if a clear political will to support the reconstruction in Afghanistan exists. In order to create the condition to respect the political commitment, it is necessary that the Commission starts informing the budgetary authority of the on going implementation and of the situation on the ground, with respect to the commitments of the other Donors. 10. Your rapporteur draws your attention to the fact that there is still some margin available under the ceilings of the Financial Perspective and wonders whether it wouldn't be wise to anticipate some expenditure especially for the preparation of enlargement in heading 5. The same procedure was followed last year and has alleviated the difficult situation with respect to the margins for all institutions under heading 5. TRANSFERS 11. Your rapporteur notes that transfers have a considerable potential if used as a flexible tool in the EU's response to major developments or events that could not be foreseen at the time of establishing the budget. In such cases the EP should be able to suggest, whilst respecting the Commission's right of initiative, that certain proposals for transfers be put forward in order to facilitate appropriate political initiatives in view of the new situation. 12. With regard to transfers, the