(report and statements followed by debate) European Council report and Commission statement: European Council meeting of 21-22 June 2007 Council statement: Activity report of the German Presidency Angela Merkel (President-in-Office of the Council) presented the report on the European Council meeting and made the statement on the outcome of the German Presidency. José Manuel Barroso (President of the Commission) made the statement on the European Council meeting. The following spoke: Joseph Daul , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Martin Schulz , on behalf of the PSE Group, Graham Watson , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Cristiana Muscardini , on behalf of the UEN Group, Daniel Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Francis Wurtz , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Jens-Peter Bonde , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Philip Claeys , on behalf of the ITS Group, and Jana Bobošíková , Non-attached Member . 4 Approval of Minutes of previous sitting The Minutes of the previous sitting were approved. 5 Membership of Parliament The President announced that the French authorities had informed him that Marie-Line Reynaud , Pierre Moscovici and Jean-Claude Fruteau had been elected to the French National Assembly. Under Article 7(2) of the Act concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage, Parliament established that this office was incompatible with that of Member of the European Parliament, and that the mandates of the Members concerned had been incompatible with that of Member of the European Parliament since 26.06.2007, the date of the constituent sitting of the French National Assembly. There were disputes surrounding the election of Marie-Line Reynaud and Pierre Moscovici , and the deadline for disputing the election of Jean-Claude Fruteau was not until 28.06.2007. In view of these points and the fact that the French Constitutional Council was to take decisions on the disputes as soon as possible, the President suggested that the establishment of the vacancies concerned should be postponed until the proceedings before the Constitutional Council had come to an end. However, as their mandates had been incompatible with that of Member of the European Parliament since 26.06.2007, Marie-Line Reynaud , Pierre Moscovici and Jean-Claude Fruteau could no longer take part in Parliament's business, nor in that of Parliament's bodies. The President noted, furthermore, that the office of Vice-President hitherto held by Pierre Moscovici had fallen vacant, a point with which Mr Moscovici was in agreement. In view of the exceptional nature of the situation, the President proposed that the matter be referred to the JURI Committee. 6 European Council meeting of 21-22 June 2007 - Activity report of the German Presidency (continuation of debate) The following spoke: Werner Langen , Enrique Barón Crespo , Silvana Koch-Mehrin , Brian Crowley , Rebecca Harms , Gabriele Zimmer , Irena Belohorská , Timothy Kirkhope , Harlem Désir , Andrew Duff , Mirosław Mariusz Piotrowski , Jim Allister , József Szájer , Jo Leinen , Gerardo Galeote , Andrzej Jan Szejna , Gunnar Hökmark , Edite Estrela , Margie Sudre , Zbigniew Zaleski , Angela Merkel (President-in-Office of the