are available or should be created to allow employees to share in growth and in open and hidden reserves without exposing them to unacceptable risks on the world capital markets (e.g. profit participation rights); 31. Urges that a future concept be explored to offer strengthened partnership structures in financial participation models, taking account of the following possibilities: (i) grouping the rights of employee shareholders in staff shareholders’ associations and/or improving the possibilities for these shareholders to be represented in company management bodies (as is already done in France); (ii) establishing partnership committees, particularly in participative enterprises which are not limited companies, and minimum participation rights for employee shareholders; (iii) establishing employee foundations which act as owners of employee shares; as legal persons in their own right they can also ensure that uniform payments are made to employees when profits are distributed, irrespective of short-term fluctuations in enterprise performance or in economic developments; (iv) taking up the relevant proposals by Parliament on renewing the directive on the European Works Council and completing the provisions for the European Company (possibility of issuing employees’ shares through an approved or limited increase of capital); (v) creating an enterprise law that coordinates co-ownership and cooperation; introducing financial participation schemes in a general context of participatory management based on partnership; 32. Considers that it is particularly important to promote the relevant trade union and management training in companies which implement employee financial participation, with attention being given to the theme of equality between women and men; 33. Warns, however, that (co-)determination on the basis of financial participation can never be a reason for preventing normal employee information and consultation rights, for which European and national law lays down minimum provisions, from operating, or considering them as less important; 34. Calls on the Commission to submit to Parliament, by the end of 2004 at the latest, studies on the issues raised in this resolution, including a study of a European monitoring body for shareholding and participation, to be set up under the auspices of the European Foundation; 35. Stresses that attention must be paid to the new Member States, where financial participation has not developed to any great extent and the requisite legal and taxation frameworks are lacking; 36. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Economic and Social Committee and the European social partners, and the Parliaments of the Member States and the candidate countries. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Approximately 19% of employees in the private sector currently participate financially in the enterprise where they work, through profit-sharing or share ownership. In this way they constitute a pillar of the European social model which is based on partnership and seeks to overcome the rivalry between capital and labour. The Commission’s Pepper II report (1997) concluded that there is more diversity than uniformity in models of financial participation. There was also a lack of empirical studies on the application of the various systems, the factors affecting their success and generally on the advantages and disadvantages of financial participation. Because there is no specific legal basis,