Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (9 July 2009) The Commission confirms the fact that in many regions in the EU the farm gate milk price is below the cost of production, due to the fact that demand for dairy products is reduced. The reasons for the higher volatility of milk prices are a combination of factors that caused prices to increase in 2007: higher demand for dairy products due to economic growth, high purchasing power in oil exporting countries, empty intervention stocks and temporary weather related reduction of supply in major exporting countries like Australia and Argentina. In 2008 the opposite happened, with economic growth slowing down, reduced earnings by oil exporting countries, substitution of dairy products by other products due to the high prices in 2007 and production increases as a result of the high prices. The EU uses the intervention mechanism in a responsible way and buys up surpluses of butter and skimmed milk powder in order to stabilise prices. Even beyond the ceilings at which butter and skimmed milk powder can be bought under the intervention mechanism, the Commission continues buying surpluses at prices close to the reference prices. However, the reference price is much lower due to the reduction of these prices in the 2003 reform. This causes EU dairy prices to decline further than in 2002 and 2003 when there was also a reduction in demand after higher prices in 2001. It is expected that the higher volatility is a permanent feature of the future dairy markets. The Commission does not yet have reliable information on dairy prices at various stages of the dairy chain. However competitiveness in the food supply chain is high on the Commission's agenda. At the meeting of Agricultural ministers in December 2008 it was agreed that the Commission will implement in 2009 a roadmap proposed in its communication ‘Food Prices in Europe’ through a joint Task Force involving relevant Directorate Generals. This work will feed into a wider analysis of the retail sector in Europe, currently conducted by the Commission. The final reports for both items are expected at the end of 2009. As regards the roadmap mentioned above, the Commission intends to conduct a review of the main potential restrictive practices which have the highest potential to distort competition to the detriment of consumers in the food supply chain. It also plans to review regulations impacting the food supply chain in order to identify potential simplification of regulations at Community, national and local levels. Another objective of the Commission's roadmap will be to design and set-up a permanent tool to monitor the functioning of the whole food supply chain and to provide increased transparency on consumer prices and pass-through mechanisms. If necessary, the Commission may decide on new measures on the basis of the results of the abovementioned reviews and analyses.