and on 30 November 2000 the Internal Market Council defined a list of 23 indicators to measure progress of the e Europe 2002 Action plan. (3) On 28 May 2002 the Commission published a Communication addressed to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions entitled " e Europe 2005: An information society for all", and the Seville European Council endorsed the general objectives of the Action plan on 21 and 22 June 2002. (4) On 22 January 2001, the Commission published a Communication addressed to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions entitled "Creating a Safer Information Society by Improving the Security of Information Infrastructures and Combating Computer-related Crime". (5) The Conclusions of the Stockholm European Council of 23 and 24 March 2001 contained a request that the Council, together with the Commission, develop a comprehensive strategy on the security of electronic networks including practical implementing action. The communication on "Network and Information Security: Proposal for a European Policy Approach" of 6 June 2001 was the initial Commission response to this request. (6) The Council Resolution of 30 May 2001 on the e Europe Action plan: Information and Network Security, the Council Resolution of 28 January 2002 on a common approach and specific actions in the area of network and information security OJ C 43, 16.2.2002, p. 2. , the Council resolution of 18 February 2003 on a European approach towards a culture of network and information security OJ C 48, 28.2.2003, p. 1. and the European Parliament Resolution of 22 October 2002 on Network and Information Security: Proposal for a European Policy called upon Member States to launch specific actions to enhance the security of electronic communication networks and information systems. The European Parliament and the Council further welcomed the Commission's intentions to develop amongst others a strategy for a more stable and secure operation of the Internet infrastructure and to make a proposal for the establishment of the future structure at European level for network and information security issues. (7) The e Europe 2005 Action plan, confirmed in this respect by the Council Resolution of 18 February 2003, proposes inter alia the establishment of the future structure at European level for network and information security issues. (8) The move towards the Information Society can, by introducing new forms of economic, political and social relations, help the European Union to cope with the challenges of this century, and can contribute to growth, competitiveness and job creation. The Information Society is gradually reorganising the nature of economic and social activity and has important cross-sectorial effects in hitherto independent areas of activity. The measures necessary for its implementation should take into account the economic and social cohesion of the Community and the risks associated with digital exclusion as well as the efficient functioning of the Internal market. The actions of the European Union and of the Member States in relation to the Information Society aim to promote further the participation of disadvantaged groups