the European Parliament. Petitions 0611/2004 by Arthur White (British) and 0029/2005 by Paul Braithwaite (British), on behalf of the Equitable Members' Action Group (EMAG) and subsequent petitions on the same subject submitted by German and Irish petitioners. These petitions formed the basis and starting point of the inquiry and have helped focus its direction. It therefore was crucial to acknowledge and maintain input from the petitioners and invite them to the committee's meetings in order to set the scene. The central role of these particular petitions also reflects the general importance of Parliament's Petitions Committee in monitoring the application of Community law. It is important to bear in mind that the scope of the inquiry is limited by the mandate, by Article 193 of the EC Treaty and by the Decision of the Parliament, Council and Commission on the exercise of the European Parliament's right of inquiry. Decision 95/167/EC, Euratom, ECSC of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission of 19 April 1995 on the detailed provisions governing the exercise of the European Parliament's right of enquiry, OJ L 113 19/5/1995, p.2. According to the mandate, the committee's investigation was to focus on four key issues: 1) Investigation into alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of Directive 92/96/EEC by the UK; 2) Assessment of the UK regulatory regime in respect of Equitable Life; 3) Status of claims and adequacy of remedies available to policyholders; 4) Assessment of the Commission's monitoring of implementation. Finally, the committee was required to " make any proposals that it deems necessary in this matter. " With this scope in mind, the committee adopted on 23 March 2006 a Working Document on the Lines of Action arising from the mandate (ref. 2006/2026(INI) ). These lines of action are set out in greater detail below. The approach was to separate the investigations at the Member State-level on the one hand (transposition/implementation, regulation/supervision and redress mechanisms) and to deal with the question of the Commission's role separately. The four key issues set above were gradually developed through different preliminary draft reports, starting with the present one, which focuses on the mandate and lines of action. In the course of this process, an interim report on the investigation, presented to Parliament in July 2006, in accordance with the Decision setting up the Committee of Inquiry, summarized the work undertaken at that point in time. It is important to bear in mind that the inquiry has set itself apart from previous and ongoing national investigations by adopting a European perspective. In order to achieve this, the analysis was done in a comparative way, including the UK, Germany, Ireland and at least one other Member State with a well developed financial services industry, such as the Netherlands or Spain. II. Lines of action in detail 1) Investigation into alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of Directive 92/96/EEC by the UK One of the core tasks of the committee was to examine whether Directive 92/96/EEC, the Third Life Directive (3LD) Council Directive 92/96/EEC of 10 November 1992 on the coordination of