with amendment to Article 6a (new). Amendment 18 Article 1, paragraph 1 1. In order to carry out the development activities of the implementation phase of the project to modernise air traffic management in Europe, hereinafter referred to as the “SESAR project”, a Joint Undertaking is hereby established, known as “SESAR Joint Undertaking” for a period ending on 31 December 2013. 1. A Joint Undertaking (hereinafter referred to as "the Joint Undertaking") is hereby established. Its primary objective shall be to manage the activities of the development phase of the project to modernise air traffic management (ATM) in Europe, hereinafter referred to as the “SESAR project”, for a period starting on the date on which the Council endorses the ATM Master Plan referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1a below, and ending at the end of the development phase. Justification This amendment seeks to render the Commission text clearer and to clarify the concepts employed as well the definition of the development phase. Amendment 19 Article 1, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. The SESAR project shall consist of three phases: (a) a “definition phase” which aims to define the technical options and steps to be taken and the priorities in the modernisation programme as well as the operational implementation plans. It began in October 2005 and is expected to finish in December 2007, resulting in an ATM Master Plan. The ATM Master Plan is to be developed by a consortium of undertakings under the supervision of the Eurocontrol; (b) a “development phase” which will start on 1 January 2008, once the Council has endorsed the ATM Master Plan, acting on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament. The development phase will end on 31 December 2013; (c) a “deployment phase” which will start on 1 January 2014 and end on 31 December 2020 and will comprise large-scale production and implementation of the new ATM infrastructure. The Commission shall submit a proposal to the European Parliament and the Council, defining: (i) the transition from the development phase to the deployment phase, (ii) the reimbursement mechanisms which shall apply to any body succeeding the SESAR Joint Undertaking, and (iii) the transfer of selected tangible and intangible assets to the new body succeeding the SESAR Joint Undertaking. Justification For reasons of better regulation and clarity of responsibility, this Regulation should define the phases in terms of a time period and in terms of what ought to be achieved during the three phases, while paying attention to the responsibilities of legislators and other bodies concerned. Amendment 20 Article 1, paragraph 1 b (new) 1b. The scope, governance, funding and duration of the Joint Undertaking shall, where appropriate, be reviewed by the Council, in accordance with the development of the project and the ATM Master Plan. The Council shall take into account the assessment referred to in Article 6 and the provisions of Article 6a. Justification This amendment is a necessary legal provision, judging from the experience of the Galileo Joint Undertaking. Amendment 21 Article 1, paragraph 2, introductory part 2. The