Question for oral answer O-0174/2010 to the Commission Rule 115 João Ferreira , Willy Meyer on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group Guido Milana Subject: Situation in Western Sahara It has come to our knowledge that in the last few weeks a new and unprecedented phenomenon has emerged around some of the major occupied cities of Western Sahara: over 12 000 Saharawi men, women and children are literally vacating their cities and setting up tents on the outskirts of El Aaiun, Smara and Boujdour. This phenomenon, which is steadily growing, is a new way of protesting against the untenable political and socioeconomic situation of the genuine inhabitants of the Territory, who are finding themselves not only the victims of repression, discrimination and abuses of all kind, but also third-class citizens in their own country. The Saharawis of the occupied areas are witnessing the depletion and plundering of their natural resources, whilst gaining no benefit from their illegal exploitation. This, combined with all sorts of restrictions and the categorical refusal of Morocco to allow the UN to organise a free and fair referendum, has triggered the massive waves of protest which are taking place now. The newly-settled camps are being watched over by the Moroccan army, police and gendarmes and the provision of water and food is being impeded by these forces. Many people have contracted diseases as a result of the inhumane conditions. According to the Polisario Front, this ongoing critical situation may develop into a genuine humanitarian tragedy with unpredictable consequences. 1. Is the Commission aware of this situation? 2. What implications does it have for EU-Morocco relations? 3. Will the Commission consider calling on the Moroccan Government to: – remove its security forces from the areas where the tent camps have been set up and allow all necessary supplies to reach the defenceless civilian population? – halt its policy of discrimination and abuses of human rights against the Saharawi people, as well as the plundering of the natural resources of the Territory? – honour its international commitments and allow the people of Western Sahara to decide on their future in a free and fair referendum, the only possible way to bring an end to the conflict?