product sales fails to give adequate weight to FSA's power to require a scheme under which affected policyholders would be compensated without need for litigation. This misses the point that steps could have been taken to protect late joiners in advance. The Society required them to disclaim any potential benefit from the sale of the business. A reasonable counterpart would have been to have protected them from loss by allowing an option to transfer out without penalty in the event of the sale process failing. Thought for the cohort at risk would have identified the need for protection rather than ex post facto compensation " (WE 16 Pages 724 and 725. ). IX. The position of non-UK policyholders As mentioned above, there are several thousand victims who had purchased policies outside the UK. A significant number bought with-profits policies through Equitable Life's branches, which it had established under the provisions of the Third Life Directives in Ireland and Germany. 1. Equitable Life's business in Ireland and Germany According to information received from the German financial regulator, ELAS sold policies from its German branch between 22 December 1992 and 30 September 2001 (WE 21 Page 1. ). The Irish financial regulator indicated that that Equitable Life operated a branch in Ireland from 1991 to 2001 (Ms O'DEA, H4). Exchange of correspondence between Irish and British regulators however suggests that the Irish branch formally closed on 8 July 2002. Mr THOMSON (H2) claimed that no new contracts were sold in Ireland after 8 December 2000. Ms O'DEA (H4) confirmed that the Irish branch of Equitable Life closed to new business in 2000, at the same time as the head office in the UK did. " The company has not sold any new policies since then " (MS O'DEA, H4). Equitable Life is continuing to service its remaining Irish and German clients on a cross-border basis under the provisions of the Third Life Directive from its UK office (WE 61 Page 1. and WE 85 Page 8. ). All policies sold by ELAS through its branches in Ireland and Germany were non-GAR policies (Mr WEYER, H3; Ms KNOWD, H2; WE 21). The magnitude of the financial damage suffered due to the crisis by non-UK policyholders as a whole cannot be assessed on the basis of the available information. 2. Grievances of non-UK policyholders The committee has received numerous letters from German and Irish policyholders, with information about the circumstances under which they acquired policies, their correspondence with ELAS and the financial authorities, losses they have suffered and actions they have taken in order to obtain redress. One Irish policyholder (Ms KNOWD, H2) and a representative of a German policyholders' action group (Mr WEYER, H3) furthermore gave oral evidence before the committee. Moreover, on 6 October 2006, a committee delegation visited Dublin and met with aggrieved Irish policyholders. Following this visit, a questionnaire was sent by the committee to the participants with detailed questions, in particular concerning the avenues they pursued in trying to obtain redress. 30 Irish policyholders returned the questionnaire completed, some of them