of the modifications extends the powers to adopt implementing measures vested in the Commission in these directives, nor the powers vested in the Council in Directive 93/6/EC . Justification Without this clarification there would be a risk that the application of the Lamfalussy procedure to these directives would be used as an argument for a new interpretation of the existing implementing powers. This is because the four level approach of the Lamfalussy procedure provides for a relatively limited intervention from the legislator and an important intervention from the executive power. The proposed compromise amendment inserts into Amendment 2 of the draft Report references to additional directives which had been omitted from the Commission's original proposal. Amendment 3 RECITAL 6 (6) In the Resolutions of 5 February 2002 and 21 November 2002 , the European Parliament respectively endorsed the four-level approach for securities and called for certain aspects of that approach to be extended to the banking and insurance sectors subject to a clear commitment on the part of the Council to guarantee a proper institutional balance. (6) In the Resolution of 5 February 2002 the European Parliament endorsed the four-level approach for securities, on the basis of the solemn declaration made before Parliament the same day by the Commission and the letter of 2 October 2001 addressed by the Internal Market Commissioner to the Chairman of Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs with regard to the safeguards for the European Parliament's role in this process . On 21 November 2002 the Parliament called for certain aspects of that approach to be extended to the banking and insurance sectors subject to a clear commitment on the part of the Council to guarantee a proper institutional balance. Justification The proposed compromise amendment inserts into recital 5 A (new) the reference to the need to have an appropriate inter-institutional balance for the extension of the Lamfalussy process as well as for the Lamfalussy process itself. The second part of Amendment 3 of the draft Report can therefore be deleted. Amendment 4 RECITAL 6 A (new) (6a) The commitments made by the European Commission regarding securities legislation via the declaration of President Prodi of 5 February 2002 and the letter from Commissioner Bolkestein of 2 October 2001 should be complemented by sufficient guarantees concerning a proper institutional balance. Justification The proposed compromise amendment amends the text to relate to: the additional commitments which will be provided by President Prodi to mirror the committments given to the securities sector, and to the committments to be made by the Council regarding the non-use of the "aerosol clause" and respect of the rights of all EU institutions such as drawn up in the draft Constitution for Europe. Amendment 5 RECITAL 7 A (new) (7a) Safeguards with respect to the extension of the four level approach are also required because the EU institutions do not yet benefit from an extensive practical experience of the four level Lamfalussy approach. Furthermore, the first and second Interim Reports of the Inter-Institutional Monitoring Group monitoring the Lamfalussy process have pointed out certain remarks