forestry. XIV. Committee on Fisheries Committee responsible for: 1. the operation and development of the common fisheries policy and its management; 2. the conservation of fishery resources; 3. the common organisation of the market in fishery products; 4. structural policy in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, including the financial instruments for fisheries guidance; 5. international fisheries agreements. XV. Committee on Culture and Education Committee responsible for: 1. the cultural aspects of the European Union, and in particular: (a) improving the knowledge and dissemination of culture, (b) the protection and promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity, (c) the conservation and safeguarding of cultural heritage, cultural exchanges and artistic creation; 2. the Union's education policy, including the European higher education area, the promotion of the system of European schools and lifelong learning; 3. audiovisual policy and the cultural and educational aspects of the information society; 4. youth policy and the development of a sports and leisure policy; 5. information and media policy; 6. cooperation with third countries in the areas of culture and education and relations with the relevant international organisations and institutions. XVI. Committee on Legal Affairs Committee responsible for: 1. the interpretation and application of European law, compliance of European Union acts with primary law, notably the choice of legal bases and respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality; 2. the interpretation and application of international law, in so far as the European Union is affected; 3. the simplification of Community law, in particular legislative proposals for its official codification; 4. the legal protection of Parliament's rights and prerogatives, including its involvement in actions before the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance; 5. Community acts which affect the Member States' legal order, namely in the fields of: (a) civil and commercial law, (b) company law, (c) intellectual property law, (d) procedural law; 6. environmental liability and sanctions against environmental crime; 7. ethical questions related to new technologies, applying the procedure with associated committees with the relevant committees; 8. the Statute for Members and the Staff Regulations of the European Communities; 9. privileges and immunities as well as verification of Members' credentials; 10. the organisation and statute of the Court of Justice; 11. the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market. XVII. Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs Committee responsible for: 1. the protection within the territory of the Union of citizens' rights, human rights and fundamental rights, including the protection of minorities, as laid down in the Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union; 2. the measures needed to combat all forms of discrimination other than those based on sex or those occurring at the workplace and in the labour market; 3. legislation in the areas of transparency and of the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data; 4. the establishment and development of an area of freedom, security and justice, in particular: (a) measures concerning the entry and movement of persons, asylum and migration as well as judicial and administrative cooperation in civil matters, (b)