common position. The changes introduced in the new text, arising from the modification of the proposal by the Commission, related primarily to financial liability and, notably, the limits to the sums payable in case of personal injury or material damage. Parliament adopted the present rapporteur's second-reading report on 16 May 2001. This report contained seven amendments relating to potential conflicts of interest between the survey organisation and shipowners or shipbuilders and to various aspects of the limits of the financial liability of the organisations arising from negligence or omission in the course of inspection. The directive at the conciliation stage Following the Council's communication to the effect that it could not accept all of Parliament's amendments, the delegation of Parliament was constituted, following the written procedure, on 28 June 2001. The Council had, in fact, accepted only three of Parliament's amendments at its second reading. The trialogue meetings took place on 11 September and 18 October 2001, and their respective results were analysed by the EP delegation on 4 and 24 October. The conciliation procedure was formally opened on 18 September, in the course of the conciliation meeting on the money laundering directive. As far as the substantive aspects were concerned, the discussion centred on the following: - the question of 'conflict of interests'. On this point, the Council finally accepted that an organisation should not be controlled by shipowners or shipbuilders, or by others engaged commercially in the manufacture, equipping, repair or operation of ships. It was also agreed that, when submitting their request for recognition, survey organisations and their surveyors should give an undertaking in writing on an individual basis not to accept statutory work where there is a likelihood of a conflict of interests, i.e. where there is identity with the owner or operator of the ship to be inspected or there are business, personal or family links to the owner or operator; - the limits of financial liability in respect of the maximum sums payable in case of accidents arising from negligence or omission imputable to the organisation (which should be obliged to compensate the administration following the decision of a court). Parliament's amendment proposed a maximum of EUR 4 m to 7 m in case of personal injury or death and EUR 2 m to 4 m in case of material damage. Over and above these maxima, Parliament considered that administrations should not attempt to recover further sums from the survey organisations. Finally, the delegations of the two institutions concluded that this aspect should be examined in the light of the evaluation report to be submitted by the Commission on the economic impact of the liability regime and, in particular, its consequences for the financial equilibrium of recognised organisations. The Commission will, if necessary in the light of this evaluation, submit a proposal amending the directive with more specific reference to the principle of liability and the maximum liabilities Conclusion Parliament may consider the end result of the conciliation to be satisfactory, as the majority of its amendments have been incorporated, whether in full, in revised form