Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (6 May 2011) 1. The Commission confirms that it regards implementation as one of its chief priorities. The Commission is preparing a communication on the subject during 2011. The process of consulting stakeholders has begun. Apart from overseeing enforcement dossiers, the Commission is seeking to promote compliance by focusing on two dimensions. The first relates to the effectiveness of bodies — such as national governments, regional and local administrations, environment agencies, inspectorates, national ombudsmen and national courts — that collectively fulfil implementation responsibilities. Taken together, these help to constitute what can be termed ‘the governance structure’ for EU environmental legislation. The Commission is addressing ways of working more closely with networks representing these bodies at EU level to share and develop improved practices and raise awareness. The second dimension relates to the scientific and other information that is needed for sound environmental management and decision-making — what can be termed the environmental ‘knowledge base’. The Commission is addressing ways of improving the knowledge base through, for example, spatialised web-based reporting of implementation of nature and water legislation. 2 and 3. With regard to EU waste legislation, the Commission is very conscious of the challenges being confronted within and across Member States. The Commission continues to investigate and follow up serious waste infringements, in particular those having a systemic character, and encourages Member States to improve their waste enforcement procedures and activities. The Commission has also launched a study assessing the specific tasks needed to support implementation and enforcement of EU waste legislation. The study will be completed in October 2011 and shall include a proposal for appropriate arrangements to carry out these implementation and enforcement tasks at EU level.