Answer given by Ms Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (29 April 2009) The Commission welcomed the opening for signature of the international Convention on Cluster Munitions by Member States of the United Nations (UN) in Oslo on 3 December 2008. In particular, the Commission applauded the immediate signature of the Convention by 95 of the 192 UN Member States and the swift ratification by four States. In the meantime since Oslo, the Convention has been signed by one more State and has been ratified by two more States. In the context of its development cooperation and assistance, the Commission plays an important role in supporting effective implementation of the Convention. The Commission plans to continue its comprehensive assistance to countries and populations in all areas of explosive remnants of war, be it in countering the affects of cluster munitions, de-mining, mine risk education or victim assistance programmes. Before the adoption of the Convention on cluster munitions, the Commission had begun an internal review of the EC contribution to mine action worldwide and it took a number of steps to improve its support as a donor to the Ottawa Convention on Anti-Personnel Landmines and a possible future Convention on cluster munitions. The main outcome of this internal review is a set of Guidelines on European Community Mine Action for the period 2008‑13. The purpose of the guidelines is to assist programmers in Headquarters and in EC Delegations in mine-affected countries to effectively integrate mine action into development policies and streamline the use of all instruments available to support EC assistance in this area. These guidelines do not, however, entail changes in the budgetary structure or any new legislative initiatives. Hence, EC mine action will continue to be financed under the existing financial instruments and, to the greatest extent possible, be addressed within the framework of relevant programming documents (Country and Regional Strategy Papers). The mid‑term review of the Country and Regional Strategy Papers about to be launched may lead to a review in funds available within the existing instruments. EC financial instruments can be used such as the Instrument for Stability (Regulation 1717/2006 Regulation (EC) No 1717/2006 of the Parliament and of the Council of 15 November 2006 establishing an Instrument for Stability, OJ L 327, 24.11.2006. Article 3) and the Humanitarian Aid Instrument to deal with the effects of cluster munitions. These instruments are very flexible and can be swiftly deployed during and after a conflict to carry out clearance operations of cluster bombs and provide immediate assistance to victims.