not a multiannual budget. In this context, therefore, where 90 % of EU legislation will be renewed after 2006, most of which co-decided, the Rapporteur is aware of the necessity to leave some room for manoeuvre in the annual procedure. 7. In case of an agreement on the next FP-IIA, the legislative procedures will be finalised in line with the provisions of the "Guidelines for legislative proposals related to the 2007-2013 multi-annual financial framework" of 18 October 2005 by the European Parliament and the Council. SI(2005)961, Draft Joint Declaration "Guidelines for legislative proposals related to the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework" sent by the UK Presidency for the Coreper meeting of 25/10/2005 "A fter agreement on the IIA, the European Parliament and Council, on the basis of proposals from the Commission to adapt the relevant legislative bases, will agree on the financial envelopes of individual legislative proposals pending before the European Parliament and Council and proceed to their final adoption." 8. Although the main political programmes provided for in the next Financial Perspective will be set out in the context of the legislative procedures, the Rapporteur: · believes that, as the financial envelopes are agreed, the 2007 Budget procedure can offer a real opportunity for fine tuning as well as leverage for setting priorities; considers that the annual budget procedure could be used as a means for the Parliament to secure its priorities in ongoing legislation procedures; · is convinced that the budget should not only be in the citizens' mind a matter for relations between rich and poor countries as the phenomenon of globalisation becomes more pervasive in the policy making process, but should be used as a mean of demonstrating the European added value for modern policies which respond to citizens' expectations facing the new challenges in a rapidly changing world; · is determined to optimise the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the implementation of the budget towards the tax payers through cost benefit analysis of a number of specific programmes; wishes furthermore to take the opportunity of the first budget of a new financial period to give financial programming an important dimension, in line with the joint declaration agreed in July 2004; · believes likely that the Budget 2007 will provide an opportunity to raise those issues which have not been fully addressed in the Financial Perspective but need to be fully considered in the review process. 3. Consequences for the 2007 Budget The main track: an agreement on IIA and the Financial Perspective in April/May 2006. 9. The Rapporteur for the Budget 2007 hopes that all the efforts made by Reimer Böge, the Rapporteur on the IIA and Financial Perspective, and the Committee on Budgets to conclude the negotiations will succeed, but these negotiations will very much depend on the openness of the Council to the carefully formulated requests of the European Parliament. 10. In this regard, at least for the European Parliament's part, the aim is to achieve a sound IIA and Financial Perspective rather than to conclude an unsatisfactory one quickly. Although the Rapporteur considers it desirable