both large and small countries. The constitution, he said, was our way to increase democracy in the EU: it would lead to a strengthening of the European Parliament and of national parliaments, which would have the right to go to the Court of Justice. The intention was to move down the road of subsidiarity, acknowledging for the first time the right to local self government. According to Mr Poettering, the differences between Member States were small and could be resolved with goodwill. The idea of a core Europe, on the other hand, was a step backwards towards an intergovernmental approach and would be opposed by the EPP-ED group. He concluded by expressing his faith in the presidency and in Commissioner Barnier to reach a successful conclusion. Enrique BARÓN CRESPO (E), for the PES group, welcomed what he called " an improved atmosphere compared to the Italian Presidency ." He also supported much of what Hans-Gert POETTERING (EPP-ED, D) had said but pointed out that only 80% of his group actually agreed with it - making reference to the British Conservatives. He was also of the opinion that a multi-speed Europe was not a problem, the problem, he said, was with those Member States " that kept applying the hand-brake on progress and deeper integration ." Mr Barón Crespo stated that the new Parliament and new Commission should be able to make their own comments on the draft Constitution. Andrew DUFF (ELDR, Eastern) welcomed the sharp progress made by the Irish Presidency and trusted that agreement would be reached before 1st May 2004. Mr Duff stated that it would be unacceptable for the Constitution to backtrack on extending the scope of qualified majority voting especially in the area of social security for migrant workers. It was also unacceptable for co-decision powers to be removed on the Commission's research and development programmes. All Member States, he stated, would have to move if agreement was going to be reached. The UK Prime Minister, whoever that might be, would have to move the most, he stated. Esko SEPPÄNEN (FIN) for the GUE/NGL group said that a constitution was supposed to be a manifestation of the people and states of Europe and so the will of the people should be tested in all the member states by referendum. He gave an assessment of the legal situation, asserting that the constitution would establish a new Union and disband the current one, which would require the assent of all the existing members. He also argued against the offensive military role for the EU which he said formed part of the agreement in Naples, and against the mention of NATO in the EU constitution. The GUE-NGL group was not satisfied with the draft treaty's provisions for a social Europe, which he said did not provide sufficient protection for access to essential services. For the Greens/ALE groups, Monica FRASSONI (B) argued that the purpose of the new constitution was to make the EU more effective and more democratic, but it was the balance of power between the Member States which had