the Union to serve, inter alia , the purposes laid down in Article 4. (Amendment 53) Article 12a (new) Article 12a Cooperation between Member States Member States shall cooperate closely to ensure the protection of victims" interests. (Amendment 54) Article 14(1) 1. Within public services or through funding for victim support groups, Member States shall encourage measures enabling personnel involved in the procedure or merely coming into contact with victims to receive suitable training. 1. Within public services or through funding for victim support groups, Member States shall encourage measures enabling personnel involved in the procedure or merely coming into contact with victims to receive suitable training specifically adapted to the needs of the most vulnerable groups. (Amendment 55) Article 15(1) 1. Member States shall create the necessary conditions, in the course of the procedure, to prevent secondary victimisation and avoid placing victims under unnecessary pressure . This shall apply particularly as regards proper reception, especially initial intake, and establishment of conditions geared to their situation at premises where they are looked after. 1. Member States shall create the necessary conditions, in the course of the procedure, to prevent secondary victimisation. This shall apply particularly as regards proper reception, especially initial intake, and establishment of conditions geared to their situation at suitable premises where they are looked after. (Amendment 56) Article 15(2) 2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, Member States shall in particular include courts, police stations, hospitals, public services and victim support groups which may be involved in dealing with the situation . 2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, Member States shall adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the above conditions are met by all administrations and victim support groups at all premises where victims are received . (Amendment 57) Article 16(1) 1. Member States shall take the measures necessary to comply with this Framework Decision by ... . Member States shall take the measures necessary to comply with this Framework Decision by the following deadlines: (a) for Article 10, within three years of the entry into force of this framework decision; (b) for Articles 5 and 6, within one year of the entry into force of this framework decision; (c) for the remaining provisions, within six months of the entry into force of this framework decision. (Amendment 58) Article 16(2) Article 16a Evaluation 2. Member States shall forward, by ... , to the General Secretariat of the Council and to the Commission the text of the provisions transposing into national law the obligations laid down by this Framework Decision. The Council shall assess by ..., by means of a report drawn up by the General Secretariat of the Council on the basis of the information received from Member States and a report in writing submitted by the Commission, to what extent the Member States have complied with this Framework Decision. Member States shall forward, by the dates specified in Article 16 above , to the General Secretariat of the Council and to the Commission the text of the provisions transposing into national law the obligations laid down