final vote Laima Liucija Andrikienė, Richard James Ashworth, Reimer Böge, Simon Busuttil, Paulo Casaca, Gérard Deprez, Valdis Dombrovskis, Brigitte Douay, Bárbara Dührkop Dührkop, James Elles, Szabolcs Fazakas, Louis Grech, Nathalie Griesbeck, Catherine Guy-Quint, Jutta D. Haug, Ville Itälä, Anne E. Jensen, Alain Lamassoure, Janusz Lewandowski, Vladimír Maňka, Jan Mulder, Gérard Onesta, Giovanni Pittella, Antonis Samaras, Esko Seppänen, Nina Škottová, László Surján, Helga Trüpel, Kyösti Tapio Virrankoski, Ralf Walter, Thomas Wise, Marilisa Xenogiannakopoulou Substitute(s) present for the final vote Albert Jan Maat, Hans-Peter Martin, Paul Rübig, José Albino Silva Peneda, Margarita Starkevičiūtė Substitute(s) under Rule 178(2) present for the final vote Comments (available in one language only) ... 24.2.2006 OPINION of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety for the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on the proposal for a Council decision concerning the seventh framework programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (2007 to 2011) ( COM(2005)0119 – C6‑0112/2005 – 2005/0044(CNS) ) Draftsman: Satu Hassi SHORT JUSTIFICATION The proposal for a seventh Euratom framework programme is disproportionate both to the general Seventh Framework Programme of Research and to the general objectives adopted for energy policy. The premise of the EU's energy policy should be our climate commitments, i.e. the fact that global warming must not be allowed to exceed 2° above pre-industrial levels. In the light of this objective, the most important technologies are those concerned with improving energy efficiency and renewable energy. Historically, through Euratom, nuclear energy research has received the lion's share of all European Community funding for energy research, some € 55 billion. Now it is time to concentrate on the development of new, clean and safe energy technologies. However, in the proposal for a seventh Euratom framework programme for the five-year period 2007-2011 it is proposed that more funding should be allocated to research into nuclear power than to all other forms of energy research put together according to the proposal for a Seventh Framework Programme of Research for the seven years from 2007 to 2013. At the same time, the funding available for nuclear power would increase by a factor of 2.3 in comparison with the previous Euratom research programme. This is not acceptable. Fusion will not provide usable energy for many decades yet. In order to control climate change, the industrialised countries must reduce their emissions quickly, by at least 30% by 2020 and by 60-80% by 2050. No one can maintain that fusion will have anything to offer by 2020 and it is quite uncertain that it will even provide any energy by 2050. Europe simply cannot afford to allocate the vast majority of its energy research funding to a form of energy whose foreseeable benefits are so uncertain. Serious risks are also associated with fusion, the most significant being that raw materials for fusion reactions might fall into the wrong hands, giving rise to a danger of proliferation of nuclear weapons. Allocating funding to research into fission power is contrary to public opinion, which is against nuclear power. There are major risks involved