UEN Union for Europe of the Nations Group (includes the Irish Fianna Fail Members) NA Non-attached MEPs Statements Statement by President Josep Borrell on the referendum in Spain 21.02.2005 Recalling that Spain had been the first Member State to hold a referendum on the Constitution, President BORRELL welcomed the fact that 76.7 per cent voted in favour. He also pointed out that 74 per cent of the European Parliament had voted in favour of the Constitution. " Spaniards' vote in favour was similar to the European Parliament's vote" he said. The turnout, he said, was slightly less than the last European elections in Spain but close to the average turnout for the EU 25 Member States at the last European elections. To conclude, President Borrell said "I am extremely happy with the result and I congratulate the Spanish Prime Minister and all the political parties involved." President George W. Bush's visit to Brussels - European Parliament participation 21.02.2005 President Josep BORRELL recalled that President George W. BUSH would be visiting the EU institutions this week in Brussels. He stressed that the European Parliament should be represented in this transatlantic meeting. After exchanges of letters with Commission President BARROSO and President-in-office of the Council, Jean-Claude JUNCKER , it has been agreed that President Borrell would represent the European Parliament in the meeting of the EU and the US. The 25 Heads of State and Government, President Borrell and President Bush will all take part in the meeting on Tuesday 22nd February. Highlights of the Week MEPs gather in Strasbourg for this week's plenary session with an agenda covering issues from unfair commercial practices to driving licences. They will also be giving a formal response to the Commission's plans for the year ahead and the rest of its term in office. Monday's sitting will include statements on the World Economic Forum and the World Social Forum, followed by a debate on criminal justice issues, including the report from Antonio DI PIETRO (ALDE, IT) on the exchange of criminal record information between Member States. Economic issues will also feature, as MEPs consider the report from Sophia IN'T VELD (ALDE, NL) on the sensitive question of state aid for public services and the report from Jonathan EVANS (EPP-ED, UK) on EU competition policy. On Tuesday, Parliament will to adopt the final list of countries who will be nominating the European Capital of Culture in the years up to 2019. A move away from paper driving licences across the EU will be up for discussion, along with maritime issues, including controlling sea pollution from ships and the report from Elspeth ATTWOOLL (ALDE, UK) on the setting up of the Community Fisheries Control Agency. The report from Robert EVANS (PES, UK) on recognition of seafarers' certificates will also be put to the vote. On Wednesday at noon, the President of Ukraine, Viktor YUSHCHENKO will address the House. Wednesday's business will also include statements on human rights in the world and on EU relations with the Mediterranean region. MEPs will also be considering reports on health and safety at