Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (25 April 2008) As the Honourable Member points out, young people, particularly young graduates, face difficulties in entering the labour market in Greece. The primary aim of these traineeship programmes — which are projects managed by the Greek Manpower Employment Organisation (OAED) — is to provide young people with professional experience and therefore to facilitate their entry into the labour market. As far as the 2000‑06 Employment and Initial Vocational Training Operational Programmes is concerned, it is the Member State which is responsible for selecting and monitoring individual projects. The Commission has therefore no information on individual applications or selected projects by Greece and invites the Honourable Member to contact directly the competent Greek ministry and managing authority. Detailed information on the projects and their follow-up may also be obtained directly from the relevant Final Beneficiary (OAED). After examining the most recent evaluation reports for Greek European Social Fund (ESF) Operational Programmes (2005 final updates of the mid‑term evaluation), the Commission could not find information on specific impact on young people, apart from rates for participation by young people in vocational training actions. Other indicators used in Greece are not age-group specific. As a result, the Commission has no specific information on the impact of these projects. These weaknesses have been acknowledged by both the Commission and the Greek Ministry of Employment and Social Protection. While recognising that evaluation of ESF Programmes is the main responsibility of the Greek authorities, the Commission agrees that the national evaluation arrangements for ESF programmes should be upgraded in Greece as a matter of priority, including in providing age group specific data on outcomes and impact. Furthermore, the ex-post evaluation on the period 2000‑06 is the responsibility of the Commission and will be completed by end of 2009. It will provide evidence on the outcomes and impacts of the ESF interventions at EU level. A thematic approach has been chosen in order to provide evidence for the important objectives and policy fields supported by the ESF. In preparation for the EU‑wide ex-post evaluation the Commission will launch for the 2000‑06 ESF programmes, the relevant departments are carrying out a preparatory study on the availability and reliability of data. The study will identify the type of information that exists and that can be used for each Member State. The final choice of themes will depend on the results of this study (as recommended by the Court of Auditors) and it is very likely that the inclusion of young people on the labour market will be considered as a top priority. A new round of ESF Operational Programmes for Greece adopted in November 2007 has been launched in April 2008, with the first meetings of the Monitoring Committees. The new programmes put more emphasis on monitoring through the use of indicators. As a result, the Greek authorities will report on the number of participants who have benefited from active labour-market policies, including traineeship projects, training courses, projects for new professionals. In addition, they will report on the number