Question for written answer E-3622/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Pablo Arias Echeverría (PPE) (25 May 2010) Subject: Information network on education in Europe (NARICs) The Commission’s initiative to create a network of national academic recognition information centres (NARICs) in 1984 demonstrates the EU’s intention to provide reliable advice and information on the academic recognition and validity of degrees, diplomas and study periods abroad. It also reflects the spirit of the Bologna Declaration, the aim of which is to create, by 2010, a European area of higher education in which degrees are more directly comparable. Despite this, however, the procedures with regard to the recognition and equivalence of qualifications carried out by a national information centre can compromise the abovementioned principles and aims. This is the case as regards the NARIC in the UK and its equivalence procedures in respect of the Spanish university degree Ingeniero Técnico Industrial (technical and industrial engineer). The UK NARIC maintains that the Spanish university degree Ingeniero Técnico (technical engineer) is equivalent to the ‘Diploma of Higher Education’ (DipHE)/year two of Bachelor degree standard. The information that the NARIC in the UK is giving to businesses, universities and professionals is wrong and Spanish technical and industrial engineers wanting to work in the UK are being put at a serious disadvantage. In Spain, the degree Ingeniero Técnico (technical engineer) is awarded after at least three years’ study at university, and is nothing like the Diploma of Higher Education (DipHE — year 2) course offered in the UK. 1. Is the Commission aware of the possible irregularities with regard to operations and breaches of principles emanating from certain NARICs? 2. Does the Commission know whether the situation described above might constitute a restriction on the rights of Spanish workers who move to the UK? 3. Does the Commission intend to carry out any form of audit to establish that the information on the equivalence of qualifications provided to the NARICs is correct?