at developing, in coordination with the application of this decision, new clinical interventions to combat the three diseases through a long - term partnership between Europe and the developing countries. In preparing the clinical trials for new action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, co-existing infections will be taken into account. The R&D part of the action programme is also intended to promote the development of global public goods which will enable the diseases in question to be tackled . Justification The EDCTP cannot be envisaged without some specific reference to the action programme designed to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The initiative stems directly from that programme, which establishes the purposes that the initiative is intended to serve: to make treatment more effective, to make products affordable and to step up R&D with a view to framing an adequate response to the problem of poverty-related diseases in developing countries. It seems desirable not to lock out any research and to take account of certain infections that are closely linked and have a significant effect on them. Any action to combat them must take these into account, if need be, not only when it is being developed but also during clinical trials and their evaluation. Amendment 4 Recital 6 a (new) (6a) The Council, in its Resolution of 15 May 2001, and the European Parliament, in its resolution of 4 October 2001 1 , both endorsed this Programme for Action: accelerated action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of poverty reduction. 1 OJ C 87 E, 11.4.2002, p. 244. Justification The Programme for Action on the three major communicable diseases has been endorsed by Council and Parliament and must be referred. Amendment 5 Recital 6 b (new) (6b) According to the Programme for Action, successful product development requires equal attention to clinical trials capacity, community preparedness and regulatory approval mechanisms. In a broader framework, successful product use by developing countries will require attention to manufacturing and supply issues, the development of delivery infrastructure and financing mechanisms for purchase and delivery. Justification The EDCTP results directly from the Programme for Action which defines the global framework in which the initiative has to be placed: efficiency of the interventions, render medicines more affordable and intensify R&D in view of building an adequate response to confront poverty diseases in the developing countries. Amendment 6 Recital 7 (7) In their Decision No 36/2002/EC of 19 December 2001 the European Parliament and the Council decided that the Community would contribute € 60 million for the year 2001 to the global fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. (7) In their Decision No 36/2002/EC of 19 December 2001 the European Parliament and the Council decided that the Community would contribute EUR 60 million for the year 2001 to the global fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The Global Fund does not finance research and development activities. Funds for research and development are needed in parallel to those invested through the Global Fund. Justification The GFATM focuses on filling gaps in the financing of current responses to