shall be open, inter alia, to institutions and public or private organisations, universities, research institutes, non-governmental organisations, national, regional and local authorities, international organisations and other not-for-profit organisations established in the European Union. Access to this programme shall be open, inter alia, to institutions and public or private organisations, universities, research institutes, non-governmental organisations, national, regional and local authorities, religious communities, international organisations and other not-for-profit organisations established in the European Union. Justification We should not omit religious communities from the list of institutions. Their programmes are concerned with the oppressed and underpriveleged; indeed, that is generally their mission Article 11, paragraph 1 Amendment 9 Article 11, paragraph 1 Synergies and complementarity with other Community instruments will be sought, particularly the general programmes “Security and Safeguarding Liberties” and “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows”, as well as the “Progress programme. Complementarity with the Fundamental Rights Agency, built upon the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia will be actively pursued. The statistical element of information on fundamental rights and citizenship will be developed in collaboration with Member States, using as necessary the Community Statistical Programme. Synergies and complementarity with other Community instruments will be sought, particularly the general programmes “Security and Safeguarding Liberties” and “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows”, as well as the “Progress programme , the Integrated Action Programme on Lifelong Learning, the Youth in Action Programme, the Culture 2007 Programme and the Citizens for Europe Programme, which all cover the period 2007-2013. The statistical element of information on fundamental rights and citizenship will be developed in collaboration with Member States, using as necessary the Community Statistical Programme. Justification The aim of this amendment is to make the text consistent from a legal standpoint. Given the aims of this specific programme, it would be advisable to seek synergies and complementarity not only with the programmes mentioned, but also with the Integrated Action Programme on Lifelong Learning, the Youth in Action Programme, the Culture 2007 Programme and the Citizens for Europe Programme, which all cover the period 2007-2013. Amendment 10 Article 11, paragraph 2 2. The programme may share resources with other Community instruments, in particular the general programmes “Security and Safeguards Liberties” and “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows” in order to implement actions meeting the objectives of all programmes. 2. The programme may share resources with other Community instruments, in particular , inter alia, the general programmes “Security and Safeguards Liberties” and “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows” in order to implement actions meeting the objectives of all programmes. Justification We should leave open the possibility of the programme also being able to share resources with other programmes in the field of culture having similar objectives. PROCEDURE Title Proposal for a Council decision establishing for the period 2007-2013 the specific programme 'Fundamental rights and citizenship' as part of the General programme 'Fundamental Rights and Justice' References COM(2005)0122 – C6-0236/2005 – 2005/0038(CNS) Committee responsible LIBE Opinion by Date announced in plenary CULT 6.9.2005 Enhanced cooperation – date announced in plenary Drafts(wo)man Date appointed Ignasi Guardans Cambó 16.6.2005 Previous drafts(wo)man Discussed