" we make great efforts to assist and support Member States during the ‘transposition period’ in the course of implementing directives ... working very actively with Member States to try and iron out any residual differences of interpretation, ambiguities or questions as to how different provisions within the directive ought to be transposed. We try and share best practice, so if one Member State has found a particular way of resolving an issue thrown up by the directive, that can be explained to the others. We do this through either the committees, which are in any event created under those directives, or by expert groups. Our aim is clearly to secure a shared understanding of the impact of the Community measure. We want all Member States upstream of implementation and application to agree on what the directive is trying to achieve and how it goes about it, and, in consequence, to bring about very high-quality national implementing measures. ... On the other hand, I think we have to remind Member States ... that the rules which they are applying are not rules which are imposed against the will of Member States. These are rules to which Member States have signed up. ..." H10 Verbatim, page 16, para.4 and page 18, para.2. With regard to specific areas of EU legislation, the Commission " very rarely " (Mr VOGENAUER) publishes interpretative communications or guidance documents, aimed at helping Member States to transpose (and in some cases to apply) certain provisions. Mr VOGENAUER also refers to transposition workshops as " informal meetings between Commission officials and members of the Member States' legislatures, where issues are discussed and clarified ". Mrs. MINOR explained how " sharing of best practice is also used, particularly if one Member State has found a particular way of resolving an issue thrown up by the directive. This is done either through the standing committees that are created under the specific directive in question or via expert groups ". Finally, another method used by the Commission is the publication of 'implementation scoreboards', which indicate Member States' performance in transposing directives in certain areas. This can be regarded as a 'name and shame' exercise, which creates incentives for Member States to transpose EU legislation in a timely and correct manner. Mrs MINOR recalled that " in order to highlight the issue of transposition, and as a means of stimulating peer pressure amongst Member States, DG MARKT instigated the Internal Market Scoreboard In addition to the Internal Market scoreboard, a specific scoreboard in the financial services area, gives an overview of how the Financial Services Action Plan and Lamfalussy directives have been transposed into national law (updated twice a month and published on the Commission’s website). ten years ago. The first scoreboard in 1997 showed an average ‘transposition deficit’ – i.e. the number of directives not implemented – of 6.3%. This provoked a reaction at the very highest level, and European Councils ... have made repeated calls to Member States to reach an ‘interim’ transposition deficit of 1.5% – i.e. to have no more