Chairs or, if no such recommendation is forthcoming, its chair. If the Conference of Presidents fails to take a decision within that period, the recommendation shall be declared to have been approved This paragraph was inserted following the decision adopted in plenary on 15 June 2006 concerning the interpretation of Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure. . Article 4 Application of Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure - procedure with associated committees This article was inserted by means of a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 26 June 2003. 1. Requests for the application of Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure shall be submitted no later than the Monday preceding the meeting of the Conference of Committee Chairs at which requests to draw up own-initiative reports are to be dealt with. 2. The Conference of Committee Chairs shall deal with requests for authorisation to draw up own-initiative reports and those for the application of Rule 47 at its monthly meeting. 3. If the committees concerned fail to reach agreement on the request for application of Rule 47, the Conference of Presidents shall take a decision within six parliamentary business weeks on the basis of a recommendation from the Conference of Committee Chairs or, if no such recommendation is forthcoming, its chair. If the Conference of Presidents fails to take a decision within that period, the recommendation shall be declared to have been approved This paragraph was inserted following the decision adopted in plenary on 15 June 2006 concerning the interpretation of Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure. . Article 5 Final provisions 1. Towards the end of the parliamentary term, requests for authorisation to draw up own-initiative reports must be submitted no later than in the July of the year preceding the elections. After that date, only duly substantiated exceptional requests shall be authorised. 2. The Conference of Committee Chairs shall submit to the Conference of Presidents a report on the progress of own-initiative reports every two and a half years. 3. This decision shall enter into force on 12 December 2002. It cancels and replaces the following decisions: - decision of the Conference of Presidents of 9 December 1999 on the procedure for granting authorisation to draw up own-initiative reports within the meaning of Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure, and the decisions of the Conference of Presidents of 15 February and 17 May 2001 updating the annex to that decision; - decision of the Conference of Presidents of 15 June 2000 on the procedure for authorising the drawing-up of reports on documents forwarded to the European Parliament for information by other institutions or bodies of the European Union. ANNEX 1 Annual activity and monitoring reports subject to automatic authorisation and to the ceiling of six reports drafted simultaneously (pursuant to Article 1(2) and Article 3 of the Decision) Report on human rights in the world and the EU's policy on the matter - (Committee on Foreign Affairs) The Council's Annual Report in accordance with Operative Provision 8 of the European Union Code of Conduct