vessels, dredgers, floating workshops, houseboats and pleasure craft. Article 3 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation , the following definitions shall apply: a) "navigable inland waterway" means a stretch of water, not part of the sea, over which vessels of a carrying capacity of not less than 50 tonnes can navigate when normally loaded. This term covers both navigable rivers and lakes and navigable canals; b) "inland waterway vessel" means a floating craft designed for the carriage of goods or public transport of passengers by navigable inland waterway s; c) "nationality of the vessel" refers to the country in which the inland waterway vessel is registered. Article 4 Data collection 1. Data shall be collected in accordance with the tables set out in Annexes A to D. 2. In the case referred to in Article 2(3) data shall be collected in accordance with the table set out in Annex E. 3. For the purposes of this Regulation, goods shall be classified in accordance with Annex F. Article 5 Transmission of data 1. The first period of observation shall begin on 1 January 2007. The transmission of data shall take place as soon as possible and no later than five months after the end of the relevant period of observation. 2. During the first three years of application of this Regulation, the time allowed for the transmission of data referred to in paragraph 1 may be extended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2) . The maximum time allowed for transmission , including any extension granted, shall not exceed eight months . Extensions of the time allowed for transmission are set out in Annex G. Article 6 Dissemination Community statistics based on the data referred to in Article 4 shall be disseminated with a frequency similar to that laid down for the transmission of data by the Member States . Article 7 Quality of data 1. The Commission (Eurostat) shall develop and publish, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2) , methodological requirements and criteria designed to ensure the quality of the data produced. 2. Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure the quality of the data transmitted. 3. The Commission (Eurostat) shall assess the quality of the data transmitted. Member States shall supply the Commission (Eurostat) with a report containing such information and data as it may request in order to verify the quality of the data transmitted. Article 8 Report on implementation By ... * Three years after the entry into force of this Regulation. and after consulting the Statistical Programme Committee, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on implementation of this Regulation. In particular, that report shall: a) assess the benefits accruing to the Community, the Member States and the providers and users of statistical information of the statistics produced , in relation to their costs; b) assess the quality of the statistics produced; c) identify areas for potential improvement and any amendments considered necessary in the light of the results obtained. Article 9