Democratic Unionist MEP) Enlargement Prospects for the unification of Cyprus Jacques POOS (PES, L) Motion for a resolution on Cyprus Vote: 21.04.2004 Vote In a resolution adopted by 422 votes in favour to 30 against with 47 abstentions on the possible reunification of Cyprus, MEPs acknowledged the right of Cypriots to decide for themselves on the Annan plan without outside pressure, though they stated that they would unreservedly welcome a united Cyprus as a member of the EU. They argued that the final document is a historic compromise which would end one of the longest running conflicts in Europe and could serve as a shining example for handling equally difficult international issues. Parliament said it understood that the population of Cyprus had numerous questions regarding many extremely complex elements of the plan, but was convinced that any difficulties which might arise in the implementation of the agreement could be solved with the assistance of the EU institutions. MEPs shared the view of the Commission that it was not a question of making a choice between the Annan plan and another plan, but of choosing between this plan and no alternative for a long period of time. They called on all parties to fulfil their obligations with honesty and openness, and on all the citizens of Cyprus to be fully responsible, consistent and committed to their status as EU citizens, and to seize this historic opportunity to reunify their country in a peaceful way. Finally, Parliament assured both sides that the EU institutions would with other international institutions rigorously guarantee the implementation of the settlement. Debate Introducing the debate on Cyprus, President Pat COX commented on the atmosphere leading up to the referendum, and in particular on the problem that the Annan plan had not always been presented fairly to the people. He noted in particular the manipulation on the Greek Cypriot side of prime time TV slots and the exclusion of foreigners from the debates, including Commissioner Günter VERHEUGEN . He said this was an unwholesome spectacle, unwarranted of a state which otherwise seeks to meet and indeed meets the Copenhagen criteria. He hoped that his comments would be carried on television in the Republic of Cyprus, as at least a modest injection of an alternative view. Speaking for the Irish Presidency, Dick ROCHE, T.D. noted that there were only three days before the referendums which offered an unprecedented and historic opportunity to heal the divisions of Cyprus. The accession of a united Cyprus was the strong preference of the European Union. The EU was ready to accept the UN plan, on the basis of its own principles, he said, the EU itself having been founded as a means of peacefully resolving difference between nations after a terrible war. The EU has helped to bridge deep and bitter divisions, and now there was also this opportunity for Cyprus. The decision, he emphasised, rested with the people of Cyprus, north and south. Mr Roche said he was fully aware of the historic nature of the decision, but he recalled the words of Kofi