Council, will be adjusted to the ceilings fixed for the different headings. 7. EU legislation reflects those political areas of interest respecting the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality stated in the EC Treaty. The rapporteur considers that the new financial framework and the annual budget provide the opportunity to optimise the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the implementation of the budget by doing thorough cost-benefit analyses on a number of programmes. Which methodology? 8. The Commission defines its different evaluation functions as follows: "judgement of intervention according to their results impacts and the needs they aim to satisfy". 9. In the rapporteur's view, less emphasis should be put on the judgement dimension and more on the measurement of the effect of the intervention. 10. Evaluation, as outlined by the Commission, can take place for different activities. It can address a policy, a programme, a project, in line with the Activity Based Budgeting (ABB) nomenclature. Evaluation should focus on some or all of the following key evaluation issues: · Relevance: To what extent are the objectives of a public intervention (project, programme or policy) appropriate regarding the needs perceived and the problems the intervention is meant to solve? · Effectiveness: What effects (impacts) have been obtained by the intervention and in particular, have these effects contributed to the achievement of the objectives of the intervention? · Efficiency (cost-effectiveness): How economically have the various inputs been converted into outputs and results? Were the (expected) effects obtained at a reasonable cost? · Utility: Do the impacts achieved by an intervention correspond to the needs identified and the problems to be solved? · Sustainability : Will the effects achieved last in the medium or long term? 11. In the rapporteur's view, these criteria in paragraph 10 above are the means by which one should aim to define the political dimension of an evaluation focussing on the value for money as well as the European added value as set down in the European Parliament's negotiating position for the next financial perspective (2007-2013) Texts Adopted, 8.6.2005, P6_TA-PROV(2005)0224 . . 12. The following evaluations can be identified (in chronological order): · Ex ante evaluation: Evaluation that is performed before the implementation of an intervention. Its purpose is to gather information and carry out analyses that help to evaluate whether these objectives can be met within the financial envelope and that the administrative cost is proportionate to the objectives, that the instruments used are cost. · Mid-term evaluation: Evaluation that is performed during the implementation period of an intervention. This type of evaluation considers the first outputs and results critically , which enables it to assess the quality of the monitoring and implementation of the intervention. The main focus is to help for preparing adjustments and reprogramming. · Ex post evaluation : Evaluation that is conducted either on or after the completion of an intervention. It strives to understand the factors of success or failure, as well as the sustainability of results and impacts. 13. In the rapporteur's view, a mix of the three should be taken into account for