conclusion of the litigation. Justification See the previous justification. Amendment 51 Proposal for a regulation Article 13 – paragraph 1 – introductory wording Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Member States shall ensure that organisers resident or established on their territory shall be liable under their civil or criminal law for infringements of this Regulation and in particular for: Member States shall ensure that organisers resident on their territory shall be liable under their civil or criminal law for infringements of this Regulation and in particular for: Justification Only natural persons can be organisers. Amendment 52 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Amendment of the Annexes Delegated acts The Commission may adopt, by means of delegated acts in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 , amendments to the Annexes of this Regulation. The Commission may adopt, by means of delegated acts in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18 : – technical specifications for online collection systems pursuant to Article 6(5); – amendments to the Annexes to this Regulation . Justification The Commission should have the power to adopt delegated acts in all areas listed in this amendment. Therefore the title should also be changed accordingly. The provisions determining the minimum amount of support and funding in excess of which information is to be provided should not be decided by means of delegated acts, as there should not be any minimum threshold for financial support. Amendment 53 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The European Parliament and the Council may object to the delegated act within a period of two months from the date of notification. At the initiative of the European Parliament or the Council this period shall be extended by one month . 1. The European Parliament or the Council may object to the delegated act within a period of two months from the date of notification. At the initiative of the European Parliament or the Council that period shall be extended by two months . Justification In order to be in line with the horizontal approach followed by the EP, the deadline should be longer than proposed by the Commission. Amendment 54 Proposal for a regulation Article 19 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 19 deleted Committee 1. For the purpose of the implementation of Article 6(5), the Commission shall be assisted by a committee. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. Justification Technical specifications for online collection systems should be adopted by delegated acts; therefore, this provision on implementing acts is obsolete. Amendment 55 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 20a Assistance 1. The Commission shall draw up and keep up-to-date a comprehensive, user-friendly guide concerning the citizens' initiative. 2. The Commission shall provide a help