This would mean that 801 staff would not be recruited. Further cuts proposed by Council in the DB would mean the discontinuation of 419 posts currently held by officials due to retire in the course of 2007. These 419 posts were held by the officials from the EU 15 (EU 25 excluding the ten member states that joined in May 2004). The proposed staff cuts would have a considerable negative impact on the Commission's ability to implement the next generation of EU spending programmes. Ad hoc procedure: agriculture, fisheries, CFSP 28. Minister Wideroos set out the figures in the DB. The rapporteur and colleagues from the committee on budgets sets out their position, on the basis of the mandate report. On agriculture, concerns were expressed about voluntary modulation. On fisheries, a report on the beneficiaries of the policy was requested to accompany the Commission's autumn letter of amendment. On CFSP, the DB figures did not change relative to the PDB: the rapporteur noted that an internal cost-benefit study would be conducted in this area. Pilot projects and preparatory actions 29. Minister Wideroos sought the EP's support to a declaration on priority areas for actions in this regard. As per the explanation in section II of this working document, the rapporteur reserved the position of the EP and questioned whether these projects could not already be carried out within existing programmes. No declarations were agreed in this area. Financial Regulation 30. For the EP, Mrs Graessle (rapporteur on the financial regulation) underlined the importance of a rapid adoption of the new financial regulation, with the necessary improvements as voted by the European Parliament in July. This was important not least in order to ensure that spending under the new programmes could be operational on time in 2007. Minister Wideroos said that the Council was committed to adopting the new Financial Regulation as rapidly as possible and certainly by 1 January 2007, as agreed in the inter-institutional agreement (IIA) adopted on 17 May 2006, but saw no need to agree to a joint statement setting out this commitment and an indicative calendar, as had been proposed by the EP. Ms Grybauskaite supported Parliament's position and mentioned that after the adoption of the new text staff had to be trained to apply the new rules. Therefore, adoption of the text per 1 January 2007 would anyway lead to a delay in the implementation of the programmes. No joint statement was agreed. Annex I: Draft joint declaration of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on value for money in the context of the annual budget procedure The three institutions agree on the need to improve real value for money. In this context the evaluation of EU programmes should become a central part of the annual budgetary procedure. The aim of this evaluation is to assess the quantitative and the qualitative aspects of each programme. In so doing, the points below should be noted: · The quantitative aspect of this evaluation will be based upon the Budgetary Forecast Alert submitted twice yearly by the Commission