Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee responsible for: 1. the economic and monetary policies of the Union, the functioning of Economic and Monetary Union and the European monetary and financial system (including relations with the relevant institutions or organisations); 2. the free movement of capital and payments (cross-border payments, single payment area, balance of payments, capital movements and borrowing and lending policy, control of movements of capital originating in third countries, measures to encourage the export of the Union's capital); 3. the international monetary and financial system (including relations with financial and monetary institutions and organisations); 4. rules on competition and State or public aid; 5. tax provisions; 6. the regulation and supervision of financial services, institutions and markets including financial reporting, auditing, accounting rules, corporate governance and other company law matters specifically concerning financial services. VII. Committee on Employment and Social Affairs Committee responsible for: 1. employment policy and all aspects of social policy such as working conditions, social security and social protection; 2. health and safety measures at the workplace; 3. the European Social Fund; 4. vocational training policy, including professional qualifications; 5. the free movement of workers and pensioners; 6. social dialogue; 7. all forms of discrimination at the workplace and in the labour market except those based on sex; 8. relations with: - the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop), - the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, - the European Training Foundation, - the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work; as well as relations with other relevant EU bodies and international organisations. VIII. Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee responsible for: 1. environmental policy and environmental protection measures, in particular concerning: (a) air, soil and water pollution, waste management and recycling, dangerous substances and preparations, noise levels, climate change, protection of biodiversity, (b) sustainable development, (c) international and regional measures and agreements aimed at protecting the environment, (d) restoration of environmental damage, (e) civil protection, (f) the European Environment Agency; 2. public health, in particular: (a) programmes and specific actions in the field of public health, (b) pharmaceutical and cosmetic products, (c) health aspects of bioterrorism, (d) the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and the European Centre of Disease Prevention and Control; 3. food safety issues, in particular: (a) the labelling and safety of foodstuffs, (b) veterinary legislation concerning protection against risks to human health; public health checks on foodstuffs and food production systems, (c) the European Food Safety Authority and the European Food and Veterinary Office. IX. Committee on Industry, Research and Energy Committee responsible for: 1. the Union's industrial policy and the application of new technologies, including measures relating to SMEs; 2. the Union's research policy, including the dissemination and exploitation of research findings; 3. space policy; 4. the activities of the Joint Research Centre and the Central Office for Nuclear Measurements, as well as JET, ITER and other projects in the same area; 5. Community measures relating to energy policy in general, the security of energy supply