booked to a line in the budget. 2. No expenditure may be committed or authorised in excess of the authorised appropriations. 3. An appropriation may not be entered in the budget if it is not for an item of expenditure considered necessary. 4. Subject to Articles 18 and 74, interest yielded by the funds which are the property of the European Communities shall be entered in the budget as miscellaneous revenue. CHAPTER 2 Principle of annuality Article 6 The appropriations entered in the budget shall be authorised for one financial year which shall run from 1 January to 31 December. Article 7 1. The budget shall contain differentiated appropriations, which shall consist of commitment appropriations and payment appropriations, and non-differentiated appropriations. 2. Commitment appropriations shall cover the total cost of the legal commitments entered into during the current financial year, subject to Articles 77(2) and 166(2). 3. Payment appropriations shall cover payments made to honour the legal commitments entered into in the current financial year and/or earlier financial years. 4. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be without prejudice to the special provisions of Titles I, IV and VI of part two. They shall not prevent appropriations being committed globally nor budgetary commitments being made in annual instalments. Article 8 1. The revenue of a financial year shall be entered in the accounts for the financial year on the basis of the amounts collected during the financial year. However, the own resources for the month of January of the next financial year may be paid in advance pursuant to the Council Regulation implementing the Decision on the system of the Communities' own resources. 2. The entries in respect of value added tax own resources, the additional GNP-based resource and any financial contributions may be adjusted in accordance with the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1. 3. The appropriations authorised for a given financial year may be used solely to cover expenditure committed and paid in that financial year and to cover amounts due against commitments from earlier financial years. 4. Commitments shall be entered in the accounts on the basis of the legal commitments entered into up to 31 December, subject to the global commitments referred to in Article 77(2) and the financing agreements referred to in Article 166(2), which shall be entered in the accounts on the basis of the budget commitments up to 31 December. 5. Payments shall be entered in the accounts for a financial year on the basis of the payments effected by the accounting officer by 31 December of that year at the latest. 6. By way of derogation from paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, the expenditure of the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) shall be entered in the accounts for a financial year in accordance with the rules laid down in Title I of part two. Article 9 1. Appropriations which have not been used at the end of the financial year for which they were entered shall be cancelled. However, they may be carried over to the following financial year