Europe, such as Eurochambres and UEAPME as well as the European Association of business Directories and of course, victims themselves. A public workshop was organised by the Petitions Committee on Thursday, 11 September, 2008 in the European Parliament entitled “Stop the Scam: Combating Misleading Business Directories”. The session provided a an opportunity for MEPs to listen to petitioners as well as representative organisations, Commission representatives and also representatives from the European City Guide business-directory which is the single most important company identified by the petitioners. Findings of the report Your rapporteur considers that the petitioners do indeed raise a serious problem which appears to be widespread, of a cross-border nature and which has a significant financial impact, notably on small businesses. Moreover, your rapporteur feels that the cross-border nature of this problem places a clear responsibility on Community institutions to provide an adequate remedy to victims. This remedy should enable victims to contest the validity of contracts concluded on the basis of misleading advertising and it should also enable victims to obtain a reimbursement of the money that they paid as a result of misleading practices. The report regrets that existing national authorities seem to be unable to provide an adequate remedy to victims and also considers that despite the widespread nature of these misleading business practices, EU and national legislation also do not seem to be adequate to provide an effective remedy or are not being properly enforced. Guidance for victims The report urges victims to report cases of business scams to national authorities and to seek appropriate advice before settling fees demanded by misleading business-directory companies. Moreover, victims should bring their case to the attention of business and consumer associations as well as their representative in the European Parliament so that the action to combat misleading business directories can be strengthened at European level. Raising awareness The report welcomes the efforts made by European and national business organisations to raise awareness among their members and calls on them to intensify their efforts so that fewer people become victims of misleading business directories in the first place. It also welcomes the action taken by certain Member States such as Italy, Spain, Netherlands, Belgium, the United Kingdom but most especially Austria, in trying to prevent business-directory companies from undertaking misleading practices. However it notes that these efforts remain insufficient. On awareness, the report calls on the European Commission and on Member States to step up their efforts, in full co-operation with national and European business representative organisations, in order to raise awareness about this problem so that more people are informed and empowered to avoid misleading advertising which can lure them into unwanted contracts. The report also calls on the European Commission to address this complaint in the context of its “Small Business Act” initiative. Directive 2006/114/EC OJ L 376 of 27.12.2006, p. 21–27. concerning misleading and comparative advertising The report notes that Directive 2006/114/EC OJ L 376 of 27.12.2006, p. 21–27. concerning misleading and comparative advertising applies to business-to-business transactions and therefore applies to the problem faced by victims of misleading