Answer given by Mr Barroso on behalf of the Commission (17 February 2005) As the Honourable Member points out, the Commission has the role of ensuring that Community law is fully and effectively implemented. This responsibility is set out in Article 211 of the EC Treaty. Article 226 provides that the Commission may bring legal proceedings before the Court of Justice concerning the failure of a Member State to fulfil an obligation under the EC Treaty. Each Member of the Commission is attributed a portfolio, some of which include responsibility to ensure the application of Community law. These Members therefore have the responsibility to propose that the Commission takes timely, useful and necessary action to ensure the correct application of Community law within their fields of responsibility. Of course, in pursuing this work the Commission faces a variety of circumstances specific to different Member States which influence the speed with which the necessary measures are taken. As far as ‘implementation scores’ are concerned, this practice is limited to the Internal Market scoreboard elaborated by Directorate-General Internal Market and presented to the ‘Competitiveness’ Council for discussion two times a year. In this regard, at the ‘Competitiveness’ Councils, Ministers confirm regularly their commitment to increase efforts for reducing transpositions deficits in order to meet European Council targets in the field of Internal Market directives. In this context, the Commission has addressed a Recommendation on timely and correct transposition which includes best practices identified by Member States. The Secretariat General of the Commission publishes on the web page Europa http://europa.eu.int/comm/secretariat_general/sgb/droit_com/index_en.htm every two months data on progress in notification of national execution measures (NEMs) implementing directives. The data about communication of NEMs are published every two months for information purposes. The percentages reflect the effort of communication made by Member States notifying national execution measures to the Commission. These tables include all communications officially received by the Secretariat General. In order to help Member States in the transposition process, the Secretariat General equally publishes a calendar for transposition of Directives. In this section, the Member State will find the Directives addressed to it classed by deadline (year and month), recalling that all Member States shall adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with these Directives by the date indicated. These lists are updated regularly following the adoption of Directives.