that no Mari El ethnic rights activist had been the target of an assault for over a year, but this allegedly less hostile attitude to Mari Ušem has now been brutally reversed, E. whereas the local and federal governments have failed to take adequate steps to bring the perpetrators to justice and ensure the safety of journalists and the independence of the media, F. whereas opposition media and newsletters face considerable difficulty in operating freely, so that, for example, several opposition newspapers can only be printed outside Mari El, G. whereas individuals belonging to the Mari minority face considerable difficulty in obtaining education in their native language, since there is no secondary or higher education in the Mari language, 1. Strongly condemns the attack on Galina Kozlova, which has so far not led to any convictions or even arrests, and the continuing harassment of, and assaults on, activists, leading cultural figures and independent journalists in Mari El; and calls on the federal and local authorities to bring the perpetrators of these acts to justice and ensure respect for freedom of expression; 2. Is convinced that the multi-ethnic character of the Russian Federation greatly contributes to the cultural and linguistic diversity of Europe and is a phenomenon of which all citizens of the Russian Federation are justifiably proud and which should be preserved for the benefit of all Europeans; 3. Calls for a speedy, comprehensive and independent inquiry by federal and local judicial authorities into the attacks on Mrs Kozlova and other similar incidents; 4. Calls on the Government of Mari El immediately to halt political retribution and intimidation directed at dissenting public servants and to refrain from undue political interference in the affairs of educational and cultural institutions; 5. Calls on the local and federal authorities to honour their obligations under international law and to take adequate steps to facilitate the practical implementation of the provisions of the Constitution and legislation relating to the maintenance and development of minority languages and cultures, with particular emphasis on providing quality education in a person's native language at all levels, thus ensuring that the Mari language and Russian are placed on the same footing throughout Mari El; 6. Calls on the Commission to raise the issue of Finno-Ugric minorities in Russia, and concerns regarding the situation in Mari El, during the regular EU-Russia human rights dialogue and at the forthcoming EU-Russia Summit; 7. Calls on the Commission to include programmes targeting Finno-Ugric and other minorities in the framework of EU-Russia cultural and educational cooperation; 8. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the Governments of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Mari El.