Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (29 August 2006) A new Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) Act adopted by the Sudanese Parliament on 16 March 2006 requires that grants must receive prior approval from the Humanitarian Aid Commission (HAC) of Sudan. The EC Delegation took two EU political demarches in order to address these restrictions imposed on the work of the NGOs. The delegation was also in constant communication with Sudanese NGOs, who played an important role in advocating the suspension of the draft law. These demarches contributed to mitigating to a certain extent the very negative impact of the new law by the inclusion of some amendments into its text. Meanwhile this law has been applied retroactively to the Women Awareness Raising Group (AWOON). Regarding this specific case, the Delegation has been actively trying to make sure that the project is de-blocked. To that end, the Delegation has been in constant contact with the organisation and has made several attempts to dialogue with the authorities in Khartoum. The Delegation also raised the case in the context of the human rights monitoring mechanisms ‘Sub-JIM’ (co-chaired by the United Nations and the Advisory Council of Human Rights) on 26 April 2006, with no positive result. Furthermore, on 27 April 2006, EU Missions and the EC Delegation met with the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Mr Kosti Manibe (SPLM), to discuss the consequences of the entry into force of the new NGO Act. At this meeting the Delegation again raised its concerns over the AWOON case. The Commission is informed that contacts have taken place between HAC and the organisation which gives rise for hope that there could be a solution to the case soon. As regards the future, on 26 June 2006 the Commission adopted on a proposal COM(2006)354 final. for a separate financing instrument for supporting democracy and human rights worldwide. This proposed regulation will replace the present legal basis of the European initiative for democracy and human rights (EIDHR). The provisions of this successor instrument, in line with the provisions proposed by the Commission to amend the detailed rules for the implementation of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities, will allow, in 2007, the application for a grant to be submitted by an applicant not having a legal personality under the condition that the representatives of that applicant are able to prove that they have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on behalf of the applicant and can offer financial guarantees equivalent to those provided by legal persons.