Answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission (13 February 2012) According to the information given by OLAF, since the reply to Question E‑8486/10 , OLAF has opened no new investigation concerning allegations of corruption of Commission officials and agents. After further analysis, seven cases initially taken into account were withdrawn from the list. The remaining cases concerned 42 staff, mostly contractual or local agents in Delegations At the time of the reply to E‑8486/2010 , the list used made no distinction between the EEAS staff and the Commission staff. Cases were opened before the creation of the EEAS. The current reply is based on the same list. , and often dealt with issues related to procurement procedures As already explained in the answer to Question E‑8486/2010 , the opening of an investigation does not imply that at the end of the investigation all the allegations will be substantiated. . Five of these cases were closed by OLAF with no follow-up. Of the remaining 23 cases, 12 investigations are active, nine are in follow-up and, for two, the disciplinary follow-up has been closed In one case, the person concerned was not covered by the Staff Regulations so that disciplinary action was not possible and in the other, the allegation was not supported by evidence. . The conclusions of OLAF investigations take into account all the elements gathered during the investigation. Actions taken then by the Commission may include a reinforced monitoring and even cancelling procurement procedures or contracts. OLAF Final Reports are transmitted to the relevant Institution for administrative and financial follow-up; and, as appropriate, to disciplinary and judicial authorities for staff of the Commission; and to judicial or other competent national authorities for operators. The Commission applies precautionary measures against risky operators using the Early Warning System. Following final judgments for fraud or corruption, operators may be blocked from participating in public procurement and EU grants. The Commission also invites the Honourable Member to consult its Anti-Fraud Strategy (CAFS) COM(2011) 376 final and SEC(2011) 787 of June 2011. .