our political group. In the name of the EPP-ED Group and its 277 Members, I am delighted to warmly congratulate you on your election to the office of President of our institution. The European Parliament is the voice of the European citizens, from this day on this voice will be yours. Europe is already grateful to you for your political and personal engagement towards the reunification of the continent. Mr President, we know that the European statesman that you are, is first and foremost, concerned with the human person, with respect for his dignity and his liberty. The European Parliament and the European Institutions in general, have already benefited from your work of strengthening their competences." Leader of the PES group, Martin SCHULZ (PES, DE) thanked the other candidates for a "dignified campaign". He stressed the importance of neutrality for the newly elected President. Mr Schulz pointed out that Mr Poettering had lost his father at the end of the Second World War and this had inspired Mr Poettering's career working for European re-unification. Graham WATSON (ALDE, UK), leader of the ALDE group, said: "You know that my group opposed the process by which you and the Socialists carved up the House between you during this mandate. Nonetheless, I believe that the majority in my group voted for you, recognising your experience, admiring your political work in this House and convinced of your capacity to be an objective and fair President. As you know, in politics a halo is only 12 inches from being a noose and our reputations depend on our ability to meet ever-new challenges. I hope you will listen to the swelling chorus in this House in favour of reform. From having been ahead of our citizens in advancing the cause of European integration, our Member State leaders are now in danger of lagging behind." Cristiana MUSCARDINI (UEN, IT) congratulated the new President but stressed the importance of facing up to the major challenges facing the Union. In particular, she pointed to the "forgotten Africa" and the situation in Nigeria and Somalia. For the Greens/EFA group, Daniel COHN-BENDIT (DE) started by quoting Jimmy Cliff "You can get it if you really want", referring to Mr Poettering's ambitions to be the President of Parliament. He stressed the importance of independence and no longer embracing any national government. Second, the Parliament should hold a debate on the seat of the institution. Third, the European Parliament and not an intergovernmental conference, he said, was the place to solve the impasse over the European Constitution. Francis WURTZ (GUE/NGL, FR) also called on the new President to be a President "for all MEPs" and he said that he had every faith in Mr Poettering who he had worked with as a fellow MEP since 1979. Jens-Peter BONDE (IND/DEM, DK), a defeated candidate for President, said: "it was no great surprise that Mr Poettering had won the election". Nevertheless, he reiterated his campaigning themes of fairer representation, one seat for the Parliament, better preparation of votes and improving debates within Parliament. For the newly formed