to participate in the development of post-2010 biodiversity targets, the 2010 Biodiversity Indicators Partnership (BIP) and the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), including in relation to climate change (CoP 15 Doc. 10.1); 23. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the proposal CoP 15 Doc. 10.4 of the Chair of the Plants Committee for further collaboration with the Global Strategy for Plant Conservation of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD); 24. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support further action to eliminate illicit trade in Tibetan antelope in line with Secretariat proposal CoP 15 Doc. 46; 25. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support Secretariat proposal CoP 15 Doc. 47 with a view to the compliance of range states of the saiga antelope ( Saiga tatarica tatarica ) to ensure proper implementation of the Saiga Action Plan and compliance with the relevant decisions. It further proposes that the CITES Parties encourage industries that consume saiga horn to contribute to in situ conservation activities aimed at restoring wild populations; 26. Strongly urges the Commission and the Member States to support further action to combat illegal trade in great apes, in line with the Secretariat’s proposals as set out in CoP 15 Doc. 42; 27. Strongly urges the Commission and Member States to reject the proposed revisions to Resolution Conf. 9.25 (rev. CoP 14), tabled by the United States in CoP 15 Doc. 67, regarding CITES Appendix III listing of timber annotated to include only the national populations of the listing countries; 28. Strongly urges the Commission and Member States to support efforts within CITES to tackle illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing of humphead wrasse ( Cheilinus undulatus) ; 29. Draws attention to the fact that the European Union is one of the largest markets for the illegal wildlife trade and that compliance varies between Member States, and calls on the Commission and Member States to step up coordination of their efforts to enforce EU wildlife trade legislation; 30. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Parties to CITES and the CITES Secretariat.