primarily the responsibility of Member States. If the Member State is to be considered primarily liable so that it would be reasonable for it rather than the Community to pay compensation, then the applicant would have to pursue his remedy in the national courts before the ECJ can further entertain his claim. See Cases 5, 7, 13-24/66, Case 96/71). 3. Coordination mechanisms at EU level a.) FIN-NET On 1 February 2001, the European Commission launched an out-of-court complaints network for financial services to help businesses and consumers resolve disputes in the internal market rapidly and efficiently by avoiding, where possible, lengthy and expensive legal action. This network, called FIN-NET, has been designed particularly to facilitate the out-of-court resolution of consumer disputes when the service provider is established in an EU Member State other than that where the consumer lives. Today the network brings together different national schemes which either cover financial services in particular (e.g. banking and insurance ombudsmen schemes) or handle consumer disputes in general. Participating schemes have signed up to a voluntary Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) Memorandum of Understanding on a Cross-Border Out-of-Court Complaints Network for Financial Services in the European Economic Area. . The memorandum lays down detailed guidelines which should govern cooperation in cases of cross-border complaints. However, its provisions are not legally binding on the Parties and it does not therefore create any legal rights or obligations. FIN-NET complements the EEJ-NET (European Extra-Judicial Network), which establishes a more general network of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms (ADRs) notified to the Commission by Member States as applying core principles contained in Commission Recommendation 98/257/EC. Guidelines for cooperation are laid down in paragraph 6 of the MoU. According to paragraphs 6(1) and 6(2) of the MoU, the nearest scheme, i.e. the dispute settlement body for the appropriate financial services sector in the consumer’s country of residence, " will give to the consumer all the necessary and appropriate information about the complaints network and about the competent scheme. Where appropriate, the nearest scheme will remind the consumer of the advisability of first addressing complaints to the financial services provider directly, since this is often a precondition which must be fulfilled before dispute settlement bodies are able to take on board complaints. The nearest scheme will also warn the consumer that there may be a time limit for submitting the complaint to the competent scheme and possible time limits for any legal actions before the courts ". Paragraph 6(3) stipulates that the nearest scheme will either " transfer the complaint to the competent scheme or advise the consumer to contact the competent scheme directly or, if the financial services supplier has accepted the jurisdiction of the nearest scheme, or if the legal obligations of the nearest scheme oblige it to do so, resolve the complaint itself within the limits of its rules of procedure ". " Once the competent scheme has received a cross-border complaint, it is its responsibility to try to resolve the dispute between the service provider and the consumer according to the rules laid down in its terms of