20.5.2008 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on statements by the European Council and Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by André Brie on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group on the situation in Lebanon European Parliament resolution on the situation in Lebanon The European Parliament , – having regard to the EU-Lebanon Association Agreement, which entered into force on 1 April 2006, and the EU-Lebanon Action Plan from 19 January 2007, as well as the macrofinancial assistance of the EU amounting to EUR 80 million, – having regard to its previous resolutions on Lebanon, – having regards to its previous resolutions on the Middle East, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. preoccupied by the long-lasting political deadlock and internal tensions in Lebanon which threaten the fragile unity of the country and peace in the region as a whole, B. aware of the financial and economic challenges resulting from Israel's July-August 2006 invasion of Lebanon; concerned that social conflicts resulting from uneven distribution of wealth and high youth unemployment in Lebanon are fuelling the internal political conflict, C. whereas more than 300 000 Palestinian refugees are still living in poor conditions in Lebanon; whereas the outbreaks of violence and the fights with the army in some Palestinian refugee camps have contributed to increasing tension in the country, D. stressing that the unresolved Middle East conflict, the deteriorating situation in the Gaza Strip and West Bank, and the failure to create a Palestinian state have contributed to the tensions in Lebanon and the explosive situation in the region as a whole, 1. Condemns the use of armed force to achieve political goals, resulting in further destabilisation and the killing of dozens of civilians and the injuring of hundreds more; 2. Welcomes the return to the state of things prevailing before the 5 May events, as a condition for relaunching dialogue between the political forces in Lebanon; 3. Supports the terms of the conclusions of the mission sent by the Arab League with a view to resolving the political and institutional crisis, with especial regard to the agenda for the Doha negotiations; 4. Stresses that the negotiations under way represent a window of opportunity for Lebanon, not to be discarded for reasons of internal rivalries or external interference; calls for all the countries concerned to give active support to this initiative of the Arab League in the interests of stability in the region; 5. Stresses the importance of Lebanon's sovereignty, stability, independence, unity and territorial integrity, and points out that political stability in Lebanon can be built neither with violence nor by external interference; 6. Welcomes the agreement reached by the parties on 15 May 2008; encourages all Lebanese political forces to fully implement this agreement, with special regard to the pledge to refrain from using arms or violence with the aim of achieving political gains; 7. Underlines that there is no solution to the present crisis other than dialogue; calls on all the Lebanese parties to adopt a constructive attitude and