winners have been from Denmark.", " The first Danish Nobel laureate was Niels Ryberg Finsen, who won a Nobel Prize for medicine in 1903 for his work in using light therapy to treat diseases.", " The most recent Danish Nobel Prize winner was Jens Skou who won the prize in chemistry for his discovery over the enzyme, Na+/K+-ATPase in 1997.", " To date, of the 13 Nobel Prizes won by Danish people, 5 have been for medicine, 3 have been for physics, 3 have been for literature, 1 has been for chemistry and one has been for peace." ] ], [ "Samuel C. C. Ting", [ "Samuel Chao Chung Ting () (born January 27, 1936) is an American physicist who received the Nobel Prize in 1976, with Burton Richter, for discovering the subatomic J/ψ particle.", " He is the principal investigator for the international $1.5 billion Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer experiment which was installed on the International Space Station on 19 May 2011." ] ], [ "List of Nobel laureates by university affiliation", [ "This list of Nobel laureates by university affiliation shows the university affiliations of winners of the Nobel Prize and the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences since 1901 (total 881 individual laureates).", " Although this list does not include organizations which were awarded the Nobel prize or any individuals in those organizations, a person who received the Nobel prize while working at a research organization formally affiliated with or operated by a university is counted as an affiliate of that university.", " Universities are listed in descending order according to the number of affiliates, while only the top 50 universities are shown explicitly with their ranking." ] ], [ "Special Class for the Gifted Young", [ "The Special Class for the Gifted Young is a program aimed to select gifted young students to enter the universities.", " First established in 1978 at the University of Science and Technology of China, it was a major innovation in China's higher education.", " The idea was suggested by renowned scientists such as Tsung-Dao Lee, C. N. Yang, and Samuel C. C. Ting, and supported by the then Vice-premier of the State Council Fang Yi.", " The objective of the class is to explore the most efficient ways to nurture promising youth.", " Peking University, Tsinghua University, Nanjing University, Wuhan University, Jilin University and Huazhong University of Science and Technology also launched similar programs.", " But they were all shut down for all kinds of reasons.", " For now, only the University of Science and Technology of China and Xi'an Jiaotong University still have this program." ] ] ] }