is known, no in-depth study has been undertaken on the powers, duties and conduct of Parliament when exercising its right of inquiry. The nature of a PCI was described in the explanatory statement of the PROUT report A2-100/1986 . which first introduced the rules regarding Inquiry committees in the Rules of Procedure. It states that " Inquiry committees are not political committees at all. They do not look to the future and look at the existing body of Community legislation and the way that it is implemented, either by the Commission or by the Member States. They look to see whether there are breaches of the law, or elements of maladministration or corruption in the administration of the law. In other words, they assist Parliament in its supervisory role ...". 4). It appears clear from the above that the investigative nature of these type of committees calls for precise limits to their activities and a slight extension of their powers and duties with respect to a standing or normal temporary committee. Scope and limits of the mandate 5). It is important to bear in mind that the scope of action of a PCI is defined by primary and secondary law, namely Article 193 TEC, Decision 95/167, the relevant Rules of Procedure and the mandate adopted by Parliament pursuant to Rule 176(3). As for the Treaty, the Decision and the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may set up a committee of Inquiry " to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementations of Community law" by an EU institution, a Member State or persons empowered by Community law to implement that law. A temporary committee of inquiry may not investigate matters being examined before a national or Community Court of law until such time as the legal proceedings have been completed (Article 193 TCE and Article 3 of the 1995 Decision). 6). With this in mind, it is clear that the mandate becomes rather large and it is therefore important to highlight that the abovementioned texts do not explicitly limit the scope of the investigations to contraventions or maladministration for which Community institutions are allegedly responsible: Member States, meaning all their bodies and administrations, are also subject to possible investigation. Thus the Treaty and the Decision set three limits for a PCI: it must investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the implementation of Community law; these actions should have been allegedly carried out by Community or national administrations; and it does not have the right to investigate matters before a national or Community Court. 7). It is uncertain whether the committee can investigate a matter before a Court of a non-Member State. The Treaty makes no distinction and simply refers to "facts are being examined before a Court" whilst the Decision in Article 2, paragraph 3, clearly refers to national or Community Courts. There is no ECJ case-law on the subject so, in principle, it seems that the sub judice limitation should be applied to national or Community Courts except, perhaps, in those cases where the purpose of the litigation is to stop the