and Plaid Cymru) GUE/NGL Confederal Group of the European United Left – Nordic Green Left (includes the two Sinn Fein MEPs) IND/DEM Independence and Democracy Group (includes 10 UKIP MEPs and one independent MEP from Ireland) UEN Union for Europe of the Nations Group (includes the Irish Fianna Fail Members) NA Non-attached MEPs Statements Minute of silence 05.09.2005 Opening the session, President Josep BORRELL recalled that Parliament had been in session on 7 July when news came in of the terrorist attacks in London which had caused so many deaths. The terrorist threat, he said, was still hanging over Europe and this was an important matter. "The summer has also seen more terrorism in Iraq, a series of natural disasters and accidents which had brought pain to many, in particular at present in the United States." Mr Borrell had expressed Parliament's solidarity to the relevant authorities. "It is good for us to give some thought to the pain of families of victims of accidents and conflicts. We should think of the USA, where there is a drama of incomparable size, with many killed, thousands displaced and great structural damage." he said. Terrorism, he said was killing many people in Iraq every day, and a rumour of an attack had led to the death of more than a thousand people when panic struck a crowded bridge. More than 400 people had lost their lives in air accidents over the summer, he continued, with plane crashes in Indonesia, Greece, Venezuela, Peru and the Baltic, as well as a helicopter crash killing Spanish soldiers in Afghanistan. The summer months had also seen dramatic flooding in Austria, Romania, Bulgaria, Germany and Switzerland, killing dozens and displacing many others. At the same time, there had been economic damage caused by drought in other parts of Europe, and still more deaths as a result of major forest fires in Portugal, France and Spain. "Faced with these dramas, the EU was quick to offer support to those affected, he said. As an expression of solidarity, condolences and sympathy to the families of all the victims, MEPs then rose to their feet to observe a minute's silence. Justice and Home Affairs Balancing citizens' rights and security needs Council and Commission statements on liberty and security responding to the threat of terrorism whilst protecting the rights of citizens Debate : 07.09.2005 Opening the debate for the UK Presidency of the Council, Home Secretary Charles CLARKE spoke of the EU as a massive force for good. He recalled that 35 years ago as a student he had campaigned to remove dictatorships in Spain, Greece and Portugal and the totalitarian regimes of central and eastern Europe. 11 of the 25 present Member States had emerged into democracy since that time - a magnificent achievement which should be celebrated, he said. The nature of our societies had changed dramatically in 35 years, with communities of different races, faiths and histories now living together. We needed, he said, to promote a society based on true respect between individuals, cultures, faiths and races. "We have to