Rules of Procedure, - having regard to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the opinions of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on Petitions ( A5‑0399/2001 ), A. whereas reform of 'European governance' must be based on a fundamental critical analysis of the democratic deficit and hence also a status report on the application of the principles of legitimacy, parliamentary scrutiny, open government, scrutiny and participation, B. whereas the Commission considers its White Paper to be the first step in a reform that will take several years , will be implemented jointly with the other institutions, and will contribute to the debate on the future of Europe, C. whereas the new international situation requires the European Union to improve the way it functions and the consistency of Community policies in order to make its external action more effective and to assume a key role on the world stage, D. whereas there are close and sometimes inseparable links between the reform of the Commission itself, governance reform and the constitutional process on the future of the Union, E. whereas the enlargement of the Union will confront its institutions with completely new challenges, which require a far-reaching review of its working methods and whereas the European Parliament will make its contribution to this process - in the form of internal reform which has already started and, in addition, within the framework of the work of a Convention with a view to the 2004 IGC on the further constitutionalisation of the Union, F. whereas it is regrettable that the White Paper does not contain clear indications as to how 'governance' can be improved by increasing the transparency of the Council as co-legislator, through its Rules of Procedure and without amending the Treaties, G. whereas the concept of efficiency in the sense of administrative efficiency must not jeopardise democratic legitimisation, H. whereas the degree of legitimacy and acceptance of the European Union depends to a great extent on how effective its decisions are, I. whereas the judicial mechanisms and the division of powers between the institutions are not, on their own, enough to stimulate interest on the part of citizens, and whereas a new method, as well as an appropriate communication campaign, should be introduced, J. whereas the White Paper's main concern is to enhance the acceptance and legitimacy of the European Union through greater involvement of citizens and civil society in the framing and implementation of Union policy, K. whereas, on the one hand, elements of participatory democracy in the political system of the Union must be introduced cautiously with a constant eye to the recognised principles and structural elements of representative democracy and the rule of law and, on the other, citizens of the Union rightly expect transparent decision-making processes and, at the same time, clear political