and to have sufficient scientific background to mitigate the consequences of a serious accident. New medical technology using ionising radiation is being introduced very fast in medicine. Patient doses and quality criteria need to be further evaluated to allow the risk-benefit balance to be maintained. Assessment of doses is the basis of nearly all procedures and regulations in radiological protection and in medical applications of ionising radiation. Research in the area of dosimetry remains important in terms of maintaining European competence, both in the area of internal and external dosimetry and to ensure adequate sustainability of expertise. The current system of radiological protection is being challenged by the observation of non-targeted effects of radiation and by questions about the adequacy of the concept of dose to estimate risk. Activities · Quantification of risks for low and protracted exposures In radiobiology and regarding the health effects of low doses a major challenge is the observation of individual sensitivity to radiation. Specific topics identified in this research area are early and delayed cell and tissue responses to ionising radiation and understanding the development of cancer and non cancer effects. Additional topics are focused on questions directly related to radiation protection recommendations. They require input from other research areas such as epidemiology, radiobiology, dosimetry or radioecology. · Medical Uses of Radiation Patient doses and image quality for some of these new techniques are still not known and evaluation in large cohorts of patients should be made. The dose values and their relation to image quality are necessary to allow medical doctors to perform appropriate individual risk-benefit analyses. This information is also required for further epidemiology studies. · Dosimetry Scientific challenges are identified in five areas: (1) High energy dosimetry for medical therapy applications, (2) Dosimetry for targeted radiation therapy, (3) Workplace dosimetry and natural exposures (including cosmic radiation and radon), (4) Dosimetry in emergency situations (triage) and (5) Dosimetry and instrumentation. In most dosimetric procedures, there exists a strong correlation between the different application areas. In all fields of radiation dosimetry there is a joint interest in questions of dosimetric quantities and modern dosimetric methods. · Emergency Management, Rehabilitation and Radioecology The challenges identified are: (1) to protect man and the environment from adverse effects of radioactive contamination of ecosystems, (2) to assess the long-term consequences of radioactive contamination of ecosystems by long-lived radionuclides from repositories for nuclear waste and for NORM situations, and (3) to improve fundamental knowledge of key processes.“ Justification See Amendment 5. Amendment 15 Annex 1, Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection, Activities, Infrastructures ∙ Infrastructures deleted To support the availability of research infrastructures such as material test reactors, underground research laboratories and radiobiology facilities and tissue banks, necessary to maintain high standards of technical achievement, innovation and safety in the European nuclear sector. Justification Same justification as Amendment 9. Amendment 16 Annex 1, Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection, Activities, Human resources and training To support the retention and further development of scientific competence and human capacity in order to guarantee the availability of suitably qualified researchers and employees in the nuclear