account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure consistent application of paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission may adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2) , implementing measures to: a) specify the steps that investment firms might reasonably be expected to take to identify, prevent, manage and/or disclose conflicts of interest when providing various investment and ancillary services and combinations thereof, while leaving it to firms, subject to regulatory oversight, to determine the appropriate mix of prevention, management and disclosure. With regard to the nature of the steps to be specified under this paragraph, the Commission shall take into account the frequency of conflicts of interest (whether they occur regularly or in limited, individual cases) in different types of investment firms; b) address conflicts that arise from any inducement that is received or self-interest that arises in connection with the performance of an investment service which may compromise the quality or fairness of a related investment service that is performed on behalf of or provided to a client. 5. The competent authority of the home Member State shall ensure that the obligations of this provision and the implementing measures adopted under paragraph 4 are complied with by investment firms when providing services in other Member States. The competent authority of the Member State in which a branch is located shall enforce the obligations of this provision and any implementing measures adopted under paragraph 4 in respect of the services provided by a branch to its clients. Article 17 Ongoing capital endowment The Member States shall require that investment firms comply at all times with the rules laid down in Directive 93/6/EEC, having regard to the nature of the investment service in question. Section 2 Provisions to ensure investor protection Article 18 Conduct of business obligations when providing investment services to clients 1. Member States shall ensure that, when providing investment services or ancillary services to clients, an investment firm acts honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients and complies, in particular, with the principles set out in paragraphs 2 to 8. 2. Marketing communications addressed to clients or potential clients shall be identified as such and shall be fair, clear and not misleading. 3. Timely information shall be provided in a comprehensible form to clients or potential clients about the investment firm and its services, so that they are able to understand the precise nature and risks of the investment service and financial instrument that is being offered. Information may be provided to clients in a standard form. 4. The necessary information shall be obtained from the client regarding its knowledge and experience in the investment field, its investment objectives and financial situation so as to enable the investment firm to determine the investment services and financial instruments suitable for that client. These obligations shall be modulated according to the complexity of the investment services and financial instruments being proposed and shall not apply where investment advice, as referred to in Article 3(1)(4), is not being provided. In such cases,