their institutions. The House stresses the importance of adequate and independent impact assessments, based on wide-ranging consultation of stakeholders. Do nothing? The House calls on the Commission to provide a sufficient number of scenarios and policy options (including ‘do-nothing’ options if necessary) as a basis for cost-effective and sustainable solutions. Reduce administration costs by 25 % by 2012 The report welcomes the Commission action programme to measure the administrative cost for undertakings in Europe and to reduce needless and disproportionate administrative burdens by 25% by 2012. The House notes that the strategy for a 25% reduction refers to needless administrative burdens for undertakings and cannot, therefore, be equated to a deregulation, nor lead to a change in the policy objectives and level of ambition contained in Community legislation. The report calls on the Commission to ensure that the reduction in needless administrative burdens arising from regulations should not be at the expense of the original objectives of the regulations concerned. In this light, the Parliament supports the Commission proposal for the introduction of thresholds for all information requirements, limiting them for SMEs wherever possible. MEPs call on the Member States to extend their efforts to reduce the burden resulting from purely national legislation. MEPs welcome strategy for the simplification of the regulatory environment In a third report MEPs welcome the fact that, for the first time, the simplification initiatives have been included in the Commission’s legislative and work programme for 2007, in confirmation of the political priority to be given to the simplification strategy. The House calls on the Commission systematically to include from now on the simplification initiatives in a specific part of the legislative and work programme, to indicate therein what priority it intends to give to each individual simplification initiative and, to that end, to set out its simplification proposals already in its annual policy strategy at the start of the annual legislative programming process. The report calls on the Commission to avoid the proliferation of documents containing lists of simplification initiatives, in order to have as clear a reference framework as possible. National level The report calls on the Commission to make every effort to ensure that the process being promoted at European level to simplify regulation and generally to improve its quality is not undermined at national level by internal rules or technical barriers. It calls on the Commission to guide and monitor this process also at national level, for instance by acting as a centre for collecting and disseminating the best practices developed within the European Union and its Member States and, not least, responding to indications from stakeholders. Finally, MEPs stress that regular and thorough impact assessments play a key role in the simplification process and that such assessments should be considered by the Council and Parliament when amendments are made to a proposal during the legislative process. Soft law" instruments: "Too often ambiguous and ineffective" The final an own-initiative report on the institutional and legal implications of the use of "soft law" instruments considers that, in the context of the Community, soft law all