Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (14 June 2005) With regards to the cumulative application of Council Directive 89/686/EEC of 21 December 1989 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to personal protective equipment (PPE) OJ L 399, 30.12.1989 , as last amended by Directive 96/58/EC, OJ L 236, 18.9.1996 . and Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning medical devices (MDD) OJ L 169, 12.7.1993 , as last amended by Directive 2001/104/EC, OJ L 6, 10.1.2002 . to medical gloves, the Commission would like to provide the following information. There is presently an exclusion provided for in Article 5(6) of Directive 93/42/EEC concerning medical devices with respect to personal protective equipment covered by Directive 89/686/EEC, and, as a consequence, only one of these two directives can apply according to the intended use of the product. That is to say, those products that are personal protective equipment cannot also be considered medical devices, and visa versa, even if the product is technically suitable for both. This situation arose from the common understanding and interpretation at the time of the development of the legislation on medical devices. The determination of which directive to apply is primarily made by the manufacturer. This decision is based on the stated intended use and the primary mode of action of the product. National authorities, at all times, can challenge the manufacturer with respect to their claims. Dual CE marking is not allowed. Manufacturers must follow the requirements of the applicable directive. In their simplest terms, the PPE requires that the product protects the user, whilst the MDD requires that the product does not compromise the health or safety of the patient and the user. Arising from other information previously received by the Commission and the examples brought forward by your question, the communication is in communication with the Italian authorities in order to resolve the situation raised by the Honourable Member. The Commission is aware that today, situations arise, such as in the case of surgical gloves, where it is proper that both directives apply. To this end, the Commission is currently preparing a proposal, under the framework of the ongoing review of the legislation on medical devices, which includes a proposal to remove the abovementioned exclusion. Upon agreement of the Parliament and Council, this will allow both directives to apply, ensuring a high level of protection for the patient and the user from a medical and personal protection perspective. In addition, manufacturers can place products on the market that comply with both directives with a single CE marking.