aware that they are susceptible to the opportunities and challenges in today’s threat landscape, change human risk behaviors and create or enhance a secure organizational culture." ] ], [ "SANS Institute", [ "The SANS Institute (officially the Escal Institute of Advanced Technologies) is a private U.S. for-profit company founded in 1989 that specializes in information security and cybersecurity training.", " Topics available for training include cyber and network defenses, penetration testing, incident response, digital forensics, and audit.", " The information security courses are developed through a consensus process involving administrators, security managers, and information security professionals.", " The courses cover security fundamentals and technical aspects of information security.", " The Institute has been recognized for its training programs and certification programs.", " SANS stands for SysAdmin, Audit, Network and Security." ] ], [ "Global Information Assurance Certification", [ "Global Information Assurance Certification (GIAC) is an information security certification entity that specialises in technical and practical certification as well as new research in the form of its GIAC Gold program.", " SANS Institute founded the certification entity in 1999 and the term GIAC is trademarked by The Escal Institute of Advanced Technologies." ] ], [ "Organizational Systems Security Analyst", [ "The Organizational Systems Security Analyst (OSSA) is a technical vendor-neutral Information Security certification programme which is being offered in Asia.", " This programme consists of a specialized technical information security training and certification course and practical examination which technical Information Technology professionals can attend in order to become skilled and effective technical Information Security professionals and to prove their level of competence and skill by undergoing the examination." ] ], [ "ISO/IEC 27001 Lead Implementer", [ "ISO 27001 Lead Implementer is a professional certification for professionals specializing in information security management systems (ISMS) based on the ISO/IEC 27001 standard.", " This professional certification is intended for information security professionals wanting to understand the steps required to implement the ISO 27001 standard (as opposed to the ISO 27001 Lead Auditor certification which is intended for an auditor wanting to audit and certify a system to the ISO 27001 standard)." ] ], [ "Lawrence A. Gordon", [ "Lawrence A. Gordon is the EY Alumni Professor of Managerial Accounting and Information Assurance at the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of Business.", " He is also an Affiliate Professor in the University of Maryland Institute for Advanced Computer Studies.", " Dr. Gordon earned his Ph.D. in Managerial Economics from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.", " An internationally known scholar in the areas of managerial accounting (often called management accounting) and cybersecurity economics, Dr. Gordon's research focuses on such issues as economic aspects of information security (including cybersecurity or computer security), corporate performance measures, cost management systems, and capital investments.", " He is the author of approximately 100 articles, published in such journals as The Accounting Review, ACM Transactions on Information and System Security, Communications of the ACM, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, Journal of Computer Security, MIS Quarterly, Accounting, Organizations and Society, and the Journal of Accounting and Public Policy.", " Dr. Gordon's current research emphasizes