Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (25 February 2011) Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are of major importance for economic growth and job creation in Europe. The Commission is aware of the fact that access to finance consistently is high on the list of SMEs concerns. To help SMEs access the finance they need, the Commission has deployed a range of programmes and financial instruments. Examples of such programmes and instruments include: — the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), which includes financial instruments offering both venture capital and loan guarantees. Up until the end of September 2010, the total number of SMEs that have benefited from the CIP financial instruments amounts to approximately 90 000; — Cohesion Policy pays particular attention to SMEs. In the 2007‑13 programming period, at least EUR 27 billion is targeted directly at SMEs and an additional amount of around EUR 28 billion is planned for support to productive investment not related to business size, of which a large proportion should also benefit SMEs. Relative shares allocated to SMEs differ between Member States, to be seen in the light of total volume of funds available, national needs and priorities set by each Member State. Beside traditional grant support, the Jeremie initiative financed from Structural Funds also provides equity investments, loans and guarantees to SMEs. The revolving nature of these instruments improves sustainability of EU Structural Funds interventions. The involvement of the financial sector also brings additional co-financing to the system; — the new European Progress Microfinance Facility specifically targets micro-enterprises by increasing access to and availability of micro-loans of up to EUR 25 000 to set up or further develop small commercial operations. The facility will particularly help those who normally have difficulty accessing credit and who will have found it even harder in present times (unemployed, young or older people, people who have taken time out of the labour market, or those in a disadvantaged position). Guarantees for intermediaries have recently become available. Debt products and equity are offered to intermediaries through a special investment vehicle co-funded by the Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB); Furthermore, the EIB has also committed itself to making EUR 30 billion available for on-lending to SMEs (the ‘EIB loan for SMEs’, distributed via intermediary banks) for the period 2008‑11, in order to support lending to SMEs. It is, in fact, already exceeding the initial target since EUR 30 billion will be met one year earlier than expected. There has been substantial support made available directly by Member States, too, during the last two years as part of the response to the financial crisis. The Commission intends to offer programmes and financial instruments in the future, too, in order to support SME growth. In the ‘Europe 2020’ Communication http://europa.eu/press_room/pdf/complet_en_barroso___007_-_europe_2020_-_en_version.pdf , the Commission pledged to design new financing instruments, in particular in cooperation with the EIB/European Investment Fund and the private sector. This has now been put into concrete terms in the recently published Innovation Union Commission initiative. The concrete actions include the following: — on the