{ "context": [ [ "David W. Tank", [ "David W. Tank is an American molecular biologist and neuroscientist who is the Henry L. Hillman Professor in Molecular Biology at Princeton University and the co-director of the Princeton Neuroscience Institute along with psychology professor Jonathan Cohen." ] ], [ "Gloria M. Coruzzi", [ "Gloria M. Coruzzi (born June 28, 1954) is an American molecular biologist specializing in plant systems biology and evolutionary genomics.", " As Carroll & Milton Petrie Professor of Biology at New York University’s Center for Genomics and Systems Biology, Coruzzi studies gene regulatory networks controlling nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) and root nutrient foraging in the model plant \"Arabidopsis\".", " She also examines phylogenomic approaches across higher plant species to identify genes associated with the evolution of key plant traits such as seeds.", " This research resides in Pasteur's quadrant as scientific investigation that is ultimately meant to be beneficial to society." ] ], [ "Ting Wu", [ "Chao-ting Wu (born January 24, 1954) is an American molecular biologist.", " After training at Harvard Medical School in genetics with William Gelbart, at Stanford Medical School with David Hogness, and in a fellowship at Massachusetts General Hospital in molecular biology, Wu began her independent academic career as an assistant professor in Anatomy and Cellular Biology and then Genetics at Harvard Medical School in 1993.", " After a period as Professor of Pediatrics in the Division of Molecular Medicine at the Boston Children's Hospital, she returned to the Department of Genetics at Harvard Medical School as a full professor in 2007." ] ], [ "Harvey Bialy", [ "Harvey Bialy (born 1945, New York City) is an American molecular biologist and AIDS denialist.", " He was one of the signatories to a letter to the editor by a group of AIDS sceptics calling themselves the Group for the Scientific Reappraisal of the HIV-AIDS Hypothesis.", " He was also a member of the controversial and heavily criticized South African Presidential AIDS Advisory Panel convened by Thabo Mbeki in 2000." ] ], [ "Carol W. Greider", [ "Carolyn Widney \"Carol\" Greider (born April 15, 1961) is an American molecular biologist.", " She is a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor, Daniel Nathans Professor, and Director of Molecular Biology and Genetics at Johns Hopkins University.", " She discovered the enzyme telomerase in 1984, while she was a graduate student of Elizabeth Blackburn at the University of California, Berkeley.", " Greider pioneered research on the structure of telomeres, the ends of the chromosomes.", " She was awarded the 2009 Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine, along with Blackburn and Jack W. Szostak, for their discovery that telomeres are protected from progressive shortening by the enzyme telomerase." ] ], [ "Paul M. Bingham", [ "Paul Montgomery Bingham (born February 25, 1951) is an American molecular biologist and evolutionary biologist, Associate Professor in the Department of Biochemistry and Cell Biology at Stony Brook University and Vice President for Research at Cornerstone Pharamaceuticals.", " He is known for his work in molecular biology, and has also published recent articles and a book on human