Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (30 May 2006) In the past, Member States' rules and practices on initiating and conducting clinical trials diverged considerably. This resulted in delays and complications detrimental to the effective conduct of such trials in the Community. Directive 2001/20/EC contributed to harmonising the administrative provisions governing such trials by establishing a clear, transparent procedure and creating conditions conducive to effective coordination of such clinical trials in the Community by the authorities concerned. Its main purpose is the protection of subjects participating in clinical trials. The directive has lead to the creation of a European database on clinical trials which records trials as of May 2004. For the time before, there is no comprehensive and reliable data on the number of clinical trials or their costs. As a consequence, the Commission is not in a position to confirm or correct the figures mentioned by the Honourable Member. The Commission is convinced that Directive 2001/20/EC has contributed to ensuring a high level of protection of clinical trials subjects. It has also facilitated the design, initiation and conduct of clinical trials in the Community by providing for a transparent procedure with clear deadlines. Nonetheless, the Commission is aware of concerns raised by stakeholders as regards the impact on the overall situation of the clinical trials in the EU regarding in particular the transposition and application of the Directive in the Member States. The Commission is therefore closely monitoring the transposition and application and has put in place an ad hoc group chaired by the Commission. This group is in regular contact with stakeholders like the pharmaceutical industry and non-commercial sponsors to discuss issues of implementation. It examines differences resulting from the implementation of the directive by Member States with a view to avoiding unnecessary bureaucracy and incoherent practices between the different Member States. By the end of 2006 the Commission will evaluate the situation and decide on possible further action.