a network of excellence; 27) "access rights" means licences and rights to use knowledge or pre-existing know-how; 28) "legitimate interest" means a participant's interest of any kind, particularly a commercial interest, that may be claimed in the cases specified in this Regulation; to this end the participant must prove that failure, in any given instance, to take account of his interest would result in his suffering disproportionately great harm; 29) "implementation plan" covers all actions by participants in an integrated project; 30) "industrial States" are those third countries that are members of G7; 31) "public body" means a public sector body or a legal entity governed by private law with a public service mission providing adequate financial guarantees. Article 3 Independence 1. Two legal entities shall be independent of one another for the purposes of this Regulation where there is no controlling relationship between them. A controlling relationship shall exist where one legal entity directly or indirectly controls the other or one legal entity is under the same direct or indirect control as the other. Control may result in particular from: a) direct or indirect holding of more than 50% of the nominal value of the issued share capital in a legal entity, or of a majority of voting rights of the shareholders or associates of that entity; b) direct or indirect holding in fact or in law of decision-making powers in a legal entity. 2. Direct or indirect holding of more than 50% of the nominal value of the issued share capital in a legal entity or a majority of voting rights of the shareholders or associates of the said entity by public investment corporations, institutional investors or venture-capital companies and funds shall not in itself constitute a controlling relationship. 3. Ownership or supervision of legal entities by the same public body shall not in itself give rise to a controlling relationship between them. CHAPTER II PARTICIPATION IN INDIRECT ACTIONS AND FINANCING Article General principles 1. Any legal entity taking part in an indirect action may receive a Community financial contribution subject to the provisions of Articles 6 and 7. 2. Any legal entity established in an Associated State may take part in indirect actions on the same footing and shall have the same rights and obligations as a legal entity established in a Member State, subject to the provisions of Article 5. 3. The JRC may participate in indirect actions on the same footing and shall have the same rights and obligations as a legal entity established in a Member State. 4. Any international European interest organisation may take part in indirect actions on the same footing and shall be entitled to the same rights and bound by the same obligations as a legal entity established in a Member State in accordance with its Statute of Establishment. 5. The work programmes may specify and restrict the participation of legal entities in an indirect action according to their activity and type and according to the instrument deployed and to take into account specific objectives of the sixth framework programme. Article 5