Reply (8 September 2010) The EU reacted immediately to the emergency situation which resulted from the earthquake in Haiti on 12 January 2010, the death toll of which was initially estimated at between 110 000 and 170 000 and one month later estimated to be over 200 000. The EU took immediate steps to help the victims of the earthquake in Haiti by adopting the following day a fast-track ‘primary emergency’ decision of EUR 3 million for immediate relief activities. On 13 January 2010, relief experts travelled to Haiti to strengthen the EU's response capabilities on the ground. In addition, the European Union's Civil Protection Mechanism was activated, with its Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC) coordinating activities. Relief funds were channelled through the Commission’s Humanitarian Aid department (ECHO). On 18 January, the European Commission released a further EUR 19 million in humanitarian aid to provide more urgent assistance to victims of the earthquake in Haiti, on top of the initial EUR 3 million and the EUR 8 million reallocated from its existing humanitarian budget for Haiti. All of these funds were channelled through implementing partners (UN agencies, the Red Cross and non-governmental organisations). EU Member States had already announced a total of EUR 92 million in humanitarian funding. In addition, the Commission provided more than EUR 1.5 million through the EU civil protection mechanism to help fund the transport of emergency teams and equipment to Haiti. More than EUR 300 million was also earmarked for immediate reconstruction purposes and the medium-term recovery phase. From 17 January to l 7 March 2010, the EU Situation Centre (SITCEN) deployed a team in Port-au-Prince. This team was responsible for ensuring that the appropriate information reached Brussels, thereby contributing to an overall assessment of the situation. The team was tasked with focusing on the political and security situation, while liaising closely with teams deployed by MIC and ECHO regarding information on the humanitarian situation and its political repercussions. It also worked in close collaboration with the Spanish authorities on the spot and the local EU Delegation. With regard to the initial difficulties in channelling aid referred to by the Honourable Member, the Commission reported on 1 February 2010 that the ‘bottleneck situation at the Port-au-Prince airport is improving and landing time slots may be given to essential incoming emergency assistance. Jacmel airport is now fully operational. The airport of Santo Domingo is gradually reaching its capacity (…)’ Karel De Gucht, the Commissioner for Development and Humanitarian Aid, as well as several Ministers of the Spanish Presidency, visited the earthquake zone a few days after the earthquake, followed by Commissioner Georgieva on 28 February and the High Representative on 2 March. More details on the objectives and programmes of these visits are to be found on the EU's website www.europa.eu . On 25 January 2010 the Foreign Affairs Council endorsed the High Representative's proposal to set up a small EU Coordination Haiti cell (EUCO Haiti) within SITCEN to facilitate the coordinated deployment of police and military assets from Member States in support of UN MINUSTAH and the