how awards are calculated ". For instance in the Mrs E lead case, a complex and sophisticated system was " designed by accountant Deloittes on the instructions of EL " to calculate compensation. " Many complainants cannot rework the figures because the necessary raw data has been withheld from them [and] find it completely unfair to leave them in a position where they cannot verify what is asserted by EL to be the 'correct' figure " (WE 86 Page 12. ). " Those who have complained to the FOS about the low quantum and opaqueness of awards have been told that the FOS does not provide a checking service and that it is for the complainants to come up with evidence as to why the award is inaccurate and then themselves confront EL " (WE 83 Page 75. ). According to Lord NEILL, " this involves an extraordinary reversal of the burden of proof. No court would allow a litigant in person to be left in such a position of ignorance in relation to the calculation of an award made in his or her favour. Nor would any court fail to police its own awards in the manner in which the FOS does " (WE 86 Page 12. ). In close connection to the above, Lord NEILL criticises that " instead of making awards itself, the FOS has put pressure on EL to make an offer, [which] has enabled EL to impose conditions which are designed wholly for its own advantage ", such as confidentiality clauses or statements that offers were made without admission of liability. Special attention is given in Lord NEILL's report to the FOS's decision to use its discretion and dismiss, without considering on their merits, all complaints which could be described as Penrose-related. " Although in form his decision related only to the 50 complaints which had reached the FOS, it effectively prevented thousands of other EL policyholders from referring their complaints to the FOS at all " (WE 86 Page 8. ). " The decision removed an avenue of free recourse, leaving complainants only with the high cost risk option of instituting legal proceedings before the court " (WE 86 Page 10. ). Firstly, Lord NEILL criticises the process leading to the Ombudsman's decision. According to him, the FOS had sent to the 50 complainants for comment a letter by EL urging him to exercise certain powers to dismiss (which in fact amounted to an application to strike out the cases) without clearly identifying to them the powers whose exercise he was considering. Therefore, without the help of lawyers, " complainants never had a fair opportunity to address the case against them " (WE 86 Page 9. ). Lord NEILL regards this as " the major example of the breach of natural justice by the FOS " (WE 83 Page 72. ). Secondly, as regards the Ombudsman's decision itself, Lord NEILL recalls that one of the reasons he stated for dismissing the complaints was that " there was a possibility that if relief were to be granted