Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (15 September 2005) 1. The Commission can confirm that it was only informed by the United States (US) authorities of the accidental release of the non-authorised genetically modified maize Bt10 three months after this incident had been reported to the US authorities by Syngenta, the developer of this maize. The Commission has expressed its regret about this late information to the US authorities. The Commission was informed that the US authorities wanted to finalise the internal investigation and assessment of this incident prior to making this information public. 2. The Commission can confirm that it was informed of the accidental release of Bt10 maize the same day on which the periodical Nature revealed this matter to the public. However, the Commission will not speculate on the intentions of the US authorities concerning the point in time at which the European authorities were to be informed. 3. No bilateral agreements exist between the United States and the European Union concerning direct exchange of information between food authorities in the event of a contamination of the food or feed chain of this nature. The EC/US veterinary agreement, which foresees information exchange in case of food control emergencies, only relates to products of animal origin and therefore does not cover the present case. More generally, the Commission is of the view that the accidental release of Bt10 demonstrates the growing importance of international cooperation in the biotechnology field. In practice, specific genetically modified (GM) products which are authorised legitimately in one jurisdiction may not be authorised in another. Most often, it will not be possible to ensure worldwide simultaneous approval of specific GM products. Therefore, appropriate mechanisms for the exchange of information about GM products approved, or pending approval, should be established between trading partners. This is, for example, the reason why the European Union has always been a strong supporter of the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety which establishes efficient mechanisms to cooperate internationally in the field of GMOs. In case of the occurrence of an accidental release of GMOs having cross-border implications, the protocol foresees the establishment by parties of preventive and emergency measures, as well as the obligation to inform other parties and the Biosafety Clearing House established under the protocol. Unfortunately, at the present time, the United States are neither signatory, nor party to, this international agreement. The US and the EU are placed in a similar position in so far as both countries authorise the marketing of GM products within their territories. The Commission therefore believes that these and other related issues should be addressed through an international dialogue.