20.10.2009 B7-0123/2009 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure on Guinea Adam Bielan , Charles Tannock , Ryszard Czarnecki , Ryszard Antoni Legutko , Tomasz Piotr Poręba on behalf of the ECR Group PE428.731v01-00 B7‑0123/2009 European Parliament resolution on Guinea The European Parliament , - having regard to its previous resolutions on Guinea, - having regard to Rule 122(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas on 23 December 2008, the day after the death of President Lansana Conté, a group of military officers seized power and as a result Captain Moussa Dadis Camara became the unelected leader of the country declaring a curbing of corruption, preventing drug trafficking, improving army discipline and organising elections for next year, in a bid to justify the transfer power; whereas this military coup was condemned by the international community, B. Whereas Captain Dadis Camara announced that neither him nor any other member of the National Council for Democracy and Development (CNDD) he is heading, will stand for presidential elections, and whereas recently he has already shown some signs that he might reconsider his position, C. Whereas under international pressure, the military junta initially announced it will be holding legislative and presidential elections by the end of 2009, which have now been postponed to January 2010, D. Whereas the junta has led the country into a worsening economic situation and has even provoked the dissatisfaction of the population and potentially dangerous unrest amongst army elements, E. Whereas on 28 of September 2009 about 50,000 people demonstrated against the junta, F. Whereas on 28 September 2009, more than 150 people were killed and more than 1,000 wounded after soldiers opened fire indiscriminately on anti-government opposition protesters in the soccer stadium in the capital, Conakry, and according to witnesses soldiers also raped women in the streets; whereas at least two opposition leaders (Cellou Dallein Diallo and Sydia Touré, former Prime Minister) have been attacked and arrested, G. Notes the Chinese – Guinean mining deal agreed just a week after soldiers opened fire on protesters in a Conakry stadium worth according to the Guinean military junta over seven billion US dollars, H. Whereas there is no justification for the military assuming the role by force of government in any nation, I. Whereas it should be for the people of Guinea and their representatives to decide democratically on the political, economic and social future of the country, J. Whereas Guinea is classified by Transparency International as one of the most corrupt countries in Africa, K. Whereas the International Criminal Court (ICC) has opened an investigation into the Guinean military's brutal suppression of an anti-government protest; 1. Condemns last year’s seizure of power by a group of military officers and is concerned by the increasingly violent political climate in Guinea ; 2. Condemns the recent use of force to disperse the demonstrations and brutal, violent and shocking crackdown on opposition protestors as