EDCTP should focus on accelerating the development of the most promising new products that are appropriate for meeting developing country needs. The EDCTP should be product-focused rather than structure-focused – it needs to produce results. Sexual and reproductive health is an important part of the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis; so programmes and projects in the developing countries should reflect this. Amendment 13 Recital 12 a (new) (12a) The EDCTP must find a working method that encourages private companies to invest more in the diseases of developing countries’ inhabitants; public leadership does not mean that it is primarily public institutions that must carry out research activities. Justification Self-explanatory. Amendment 14 Recital 18 a (new) (18a) Developing countries lack the clinical, regulatory and community infrastructure necessary to participate effectively in undertaking clinical research; and without active programmes, such as the Programme for Action, to strengthen and develop such capacity, developing countries will not be able to play the essential role expected in the EDCTP partnership. Justification The Programme for Action has identified lack of regulatory and community capacity to approve and participate in clinical trials. If developing countries are to be true partners in the EDCTP they must be enabled to play a full and informed role in decision-making. This will require appropriate training, networking and support to be provided. Amendment 15 Recital 19 (19) It is essential that the research activities carried out under the EDCTP Programme conform to basic ethical principles, particularly those set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (19) It is essential that the research activities carried out under the EDCTP Programme conform to basic ethical principles, particularly those set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union , as well as the basic principles of gender mainstreaming and gender equality laid down in the Treaty and central to the research area. Justification As gender mainstreaming is not mentioned in the Commission proposal it should be inserted here to ensure that it is fully taken into consideration. Amendment 16 Recital 19 a (new) (19a) The European and Developing countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP) must apply the good clinical practice defined in Directive 2001/20/EC 1 on the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use in the European Union. 1 OJ L 121, 1.5.2001, p. 34. Justification The Council and European Parliament adopted a directive on 4 April 2001 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. The parties to the EDCTP Programme must adopt the same rules to avoid creating distortion and discrimination between the ethical standards required inside the European Union and those required outside. Amendment 17 Article 1, paragraph 2 2. The Community shall pay a financial contribution amounting to a maximum of € 200 million for the