paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Private-public limited liability companies formed under the law of a Member State and having registered offices within the Union may form an SPE provided that at least two of them: a) are governed by the laws of different Member States; or b) have a subsidiary company governed by the law of another Member State or a branch situated in another Member State . Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment However, where a matter is not covered by the articles of this Regulation or by Annex I, an SPE shall be governed by the law, including the provisions implementing Community law, which applies to private limited-liability companies in the Member State in which the SPE has its registered office, hereinafter "applicable national law". However, where a provision is not covered by the articles of this Regulation or by Annex I, an SPE shall be governed by the law, including the provisions implementing Community law, which applies to private limited-liability companies in the Member State in which the SPE has its registered office, hereinafter "applicable national law". Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Formation of the SPE by the transformation, merger or division of existing companies shall be governed by the national law applicable to the transforming company, to each of the merging companies or to the dividing company. Formation by transformation shall not give rise to the winding up of the company or any loss or interruption of its legal personality. 2. Formation of the SPE by the transformation, merger or division of existing companies shall be governed by the national law applicable to the transforming company, to each of the merging companies or to the dividing company. Formation by transformation shall neither give rise to the winding up of the company or any loss or interruption of its legal personality nor affect employees' existing rights of participation . Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2, 'company' shall mean any form of company that may be set up under the law of the Member States, a European Company and, where applicable, an SPE. 3. For the purposes of paragraphs 1 and 2, 'company' shall mean any form of limited company that may be set up under the law of the Member States, a European Company and, where applicable, an SPE. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment An SPE shall not be under any obligation to have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. An SPE shall have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Article 9