authorities of the country of destination have expressly agreed, after having been fully informed of the reasons for which and the circumstances under which, the concerned food could not be placed on the market in the Community. The export of such food and feed products shall not, under any circumstances, pose a health risk in the importing country. The agreement of the competent authorities of the country of destination shall not be required when the food or feed products are being exported from the Community to be returned to the supplier. Amendment 83 Article 17, paragraph 5 5. Paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply similarly to feed. Deleted Amendment 84 Article 18, point (-a) (new) (-a) ensure that international standards and Community food legislation are consistent provided this would not result in a lowering of existing Community standards; Amendment 207 Article 19 Wherever circumstances allow there shall be effective public consultation, directly or through representative bodies, at an appropriate stage, during the preparation of food law. Except in an emergency, the public and other interested parties shall be consulted in an open and transparent and appropriate way in the preparation , drafting, implementation, evaluation and revision of food law. Amendment 86 Article 21, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 2. The mission of the Authority shall be to contribute to a high level of protection of human life and health, protection of animal health and welfare , protection of plant life, protection of the environment and protection of the health of workers, while facilitating the functioning of the internal market, by setting up an integrated, coherent system of scientific and technical support for the Community's legislation and policies and by the provision of independent information and risk communication. 2. The mission of the Authority shall contribute to a high level of protection of human life and health, and in this respect take account of animal health and welfare , plant health and the environment, in the context of the operation of the internal market. The Authority shall provide scientific advice and scientific and technical support for the Community's legislation and policies in all fields which have a direct or indirect impact on food and feed product safety. It shall provide independent information on all matters within these fields and communicate on risks. Amendment 87 Article 21, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 That mission shall cover: (a) all fields having a direct or indirect impact on the safety of the food; That mission shall cover: (a) all fields having a direct impact on the safety of the food; (b) other fields, when having an impact on food safety, such as: (b) animal health and welfare, plant health; (i) animal health and welfare and plant health in cases where food or feed products may become harmful ; (c) nutrition; (ii) nutrition; (d) any matter relating to genetically modified organisms within the meaning of Directive 90/220/EEC . (iii) all food safety matters relating to genetically modified organisms within the meaning of Directive 90/220/EEC , as last amended by Commission Directive 97/35/EC of 18 June 1997( 1 ); (iv)