Joint answer given by Mr Lewandowski on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-002430/11 , E-002475/11 (31 March 2011) Fundamental changes can be brought to the current system. As indicated in the Budget Review, the introduction of a new phase in the evolution of EU financing could include three closely linked dimensions — the simplification of Member States' contributions, the introduction of one or several new own resources and the progressive phasing-out of all correction mechanisms. As changes were phased in, essential elements of the EU financing system should be retained: a stable and sufficient financing of the EU budget, respect for budgetary discipline and a mechanism to ensure a balanced budget. The Budget Review states that ‘if feasible, the proceeds of a new resource should be collected directly by the EU outside national budgets’. An autonomous resource would not need to transit via Member States administration. The underlying motivation is to avoid Member States considering the resource as a form of spending to be minimised and reduce the ‘juste retour’ considerations. The issue of autonomy should not be misunderstood as meaning a change of sovereignty regarding taxation. The power to raise taxes independently at the European level is not on the agenda and the Commission has no plans for any such proposals. National tax sovereignty is not at stake because the introduction of any new own resource is subject to unanimous agreement in Council and ratification by all Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. The Commission presented a non-exclusive list of six financing means in the Budget Review as possible candidates for own resources to fully replace the existing VAT-based own resource as well as to reduce the scale of the GNI-based own resource, leaving a lesser burden on national treasuries. Each of the financing means listed has its particular characteristics and presents advantages and disadvantages See Staff Working Document SEC(2010)7000. . The Commission is proceeding with an in-depth analysis based on the criteria set out in the Budget Review of the possible candidates for own resources prior to submitting proposals as part of its overall proposals on the next Multiannual Financial Framework before 1 July 2011.