available for consultation at an information centre accessible to the public. – Where use of the computerised system is concerned, a trader may communicate directly only with the Member State responsible for the place from which, or to which, the products are consigned, as appropriate. It is recognised that the CCN/CSI Common Communications Network/Common Systems Interface. infrastructure already in use to link the Member States would give the projected system a head start. It is proposed that the AFIS infrastructure should be used temporarily for movement verification, mutual assistance and any other related exchanges. The resulting architecture is therefore as follows: Each Member State has one applications server (the computerised system for the movement and surveillance of excisable products) to process messages issued by its officials or by traders. Each server is linked up to the CCN/CSI network by a CCN gateway. The officials" work stations (in the Member States) are connected up to the server for the computerised system by the internal AEM network. The various help centres and helpdesks are connected up to the system's server and/or the CCN gateway (not shown in the diagram). Traders (ECOP) are connected up to their respective Member States by a front-end communications channel (COM) which is duplicated so that, if one channel is down, the other ensures that the site remains available. Most traders use only one work station or one stand-alone PC but larger traders will have their own server and network. The Commission departments (the Directorate-General for Taxation and Customs Union (TAXUD) and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)) are directly linked to a CCN gateway. The AFIS Anti-Fraud Information System. server is linked to the same gateway. The applications centre (AC) is connected up to its own CCN gateway. Each Member State is responsible for all the functions falling within its local domain. 2. Functions To permit development and deployment to be staggered over the period, the system would be broken down into three groups of functions, as follows: – Group I: The essential reference module for the AAD electronic routing system, chiefly comprising the basic data of the individual specifications in the Directive and the details of the mutual obligations on data exchange. Access to the VIES VAT Information Exchange System. system may be added to this group. – Group II: The AAD electronic routing system itself and all the data required for drawing up a movement document. – Group III: The additional modules for which the electronic AAD (Group II) is the pre-requisite but which do not themselves have any effect on the AAD routing system. The function modules which make up the different Groups are illustrated below in descending hierarchical order. Dark arrows indicate that the return module cannot function if the reference module is not operational. Dotted arrows show that the reference modules can be left out temporarily although it would be advisable to develop them. Modules shaded in grey are those which the Member States and traders regard as priorities. For easier reading, not all transmission links have been shown. The following paragraphs summarise the subsystems