should have the right to leave their vested pension rights as dormant rights in the supplementary pension scheme in which their entitlement was established. (16) In conformity with national legislation and practice, steps should be taken to ensure fair treatment of the value of dormant rights. The value of the rights when the employee leaves the pension scheme can be calculated according to generally recognised actuarial principles. In calculating the value, account should be taken of the particularities of the scheme, the interests of the outgoing worker, and those of the members remaining in the pension scheme. (17) If the value of the vested pension rights of an outgoing worker does not exceed a threshold amount established by the Member State, and in order to avoid excessive costs arising from the management of a large number of low-value dormant rights, pension schemes must be given the option not to preserve those vested pension rights, but to pay a capital sum in proportion to the vested rights. The amount of the capital payment should always be determined by recognised actuarial principles and reflect the current value of the vested pension rights at the time of the payment . (18) This Directive does not aim to limit outgoing workers" ability to transfer vested pension rights. To encourage the freedom of movement for workers, Member States should endeavour, as far as possible and in particular when introducing new supplementary pension schemes, gradually to improve the transferability of vested pension rights. (19) Without prejudice to Directive 2003/41/EC , workers who exercise or plan to exercise their right to freedom of movement should be suitably informed by those responsible for managing supplementary pension schemes, particularly regarding how a termination of their employment would affect their supplementary pension rights. (20) In view of the diverse nature of supplementary social security schemes, the Community must confine itself to establishing the objectives to be achieved in general terms, which means that a directive is the appropriate legal instrument. (21) Since the objective of this Directive , namely to reduce the obstacles to the exercise of the right of workers to freedom of movement on the one hand and to the operation of the internal market on the other , cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scope of the measures, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality , as set out in that Article, this Directive, based on an impact assessment conducted with the help of the committee in the area of supplementary pensions, does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective . (22) This Directive establishes minimum requirements, thus enabling the Member States to adopt or maintain more favourable provisions. The implementation of this Directive cannot be used to justify a regression vis-à-vis the existing situation in each Member State. (23) In view of the need to take account