specific actions for their benefit . Innovation and SME-related activities supported under this Framework Programme should be complementary to those undertaken under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 5 Recital 23 (23) Participation in the activities of this Framework Programme should be facilitated through the publication of all relevant information, to be made available in a timely and user‑friendly manner to all potential participants. (23) Participation in the activities of this Framework Programme should be facilitated through the publication of all relevant information, to be made available in a timely and user‑friendly manner to all potential participants and the appropriate use of simple and quick procedures, free of unduly complex financial conditions and unnecessary reporting, in accordance with the Rules for Participation that are applicable to this Framework Programme . Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 6 Article 2, paragraph 1, point (i), point (b) (b) Food, Agriculture and Biotechnology; (b) Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, Biotechnology; Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 7 Article 4, paragraph 1, table Council Common Position Cooperation 32 365 Ideas 7 460 People 4 728 Capacities 4 217 Non-nuclear actions of the Joint Research Centre 1 751 Amendment by Parliament Cooperation 32 413 Ideas 7 510 People 4 750 Capacities 4 097 Non-nuclear actions of the Joint Research Centre 1 751 Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 8 Article 7 a (new) Article 7a Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 9 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", paragraph 3, point 2 2) Food, Agriculture and Biotechnology; 2) Food, Agriculture and Fisheries , Biotechnology; Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 10 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", paragraph 7 In the case of subjects of industrial relevance in particular, the topics have been identified relying, among other sources, on the work of different "European Technology Platforms" set up in fields where Europe's competitiveness, economic growth and welfare depend on important research and technological progress in the medium to long term. European Technology Platforms bring together stakeholders, under industrial leadership, to define and implement a Strategic Research Agenda. This Framework Programme will contribute to the realisation of these Strategic Research Agendas where these present true European added value. European Technology Platforms can play a role in facilitating and organising the participation of industry, including SMEs, in research projects relating to their specific field, including projects eligible for funding under the Framework Programme. In the case of subjects of industrial relevance in particular, the topics have been identified relying, among other sources, on the work of different "European Technology Platforms" set up in fields where Europe's competitiveness, economic growth and welfare depend on important