DC, 145 pp. April (1990). 19, "Optimal Intervention in the Presence of Categorical Equity Objectives" (with De‑Piao Tang), Public Finance/Finances Publiques, 43, n" 1, pp. 79‑95 (1988). 20. "Optimal Allocation of Categorical Equity" (with De‑Piao Tang), Academia Economic Papers, Taiwan, 15, pp. 101 – 118 (1987). ANNEX 2 Answers to the questionnaire by Mr José Manuel González-Páramo, Candidate to be a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank A. Personal and professional background 1. Please highlight the main aspects of your professional experience in monetary, financial and business matters. After obtaining an Economics degree from the Complutense University of Madrid (UCM), I completed postgraduate studies in public finance, monetary economics and international economics at the UCM and Columbia University (New York). I hold a doctorate degree in Economics from UCM (1985) and a Ph.D. in Economics from Columbia University (1986). My professional experience can be summarised as a combination of academic activity, advisory tasks and the decision-making process in central banking. In 1988 I became a full professor of Economics at UCM, where I have taught courses on public finance (macro and micro), European economics and public management. Apart from that, I have taught advanced courses in economic analysis at the Madrid Centro de Estudios Monetarios y Financieros (CEMFI), among other research centres. My publications and research have focused mainly on fiscal policy, the economic effects of public spending and taxation, and the costs and benefits of disinflation. From 1985 to 1994 I held positions as an economic adviser to various public and private institutions: the Spanish Ministry of Economics and Finance (1985-1987), Fundación Fondo para la Investigación Económica y Social (1987-1989), and the Bank of Spain (1989-1994), among others. Since July 1994 I have been a member of the Governing Council of the Bank of Spain, and a member of its Executive Board since July 1998. In my capacity as a member of these two decision-making bodies I have been responsible for setting the policy line at one of the Eurosystem’s central banks, the Bank of Spain, on major issues encompassing monetary policy, preparations for Monetary Union and financial supervision. 2. Please highlight the main aspects of your European and international experience. The main aspects of my European and international experience stem from my role as a member of the decision-making bodies of the Bank of Spain, as well as from my professional activity as an economic adviser and as a member of the academic community. First, as a member of the Governing Council and of the Executive Board of the Bank of Spain, I have been involved in the preparation of the Third Stage of Economic and Monetary Union. Further, as a member of the Executive Board I am jointly responsible for setting guidelines for the contribution of the Bank of Spain to the discussions and decision-making on key issues in the Eurosystem. In this respect, I had the opportunity to follow the activity of the main working groups and to become involved in the preparation of the positions of the Bank of Spain as regards its