Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (29 September 2005) Since 1 January 2003, all heavy goods vehicles registered in the Netherlands, on the basis of national legislation, have to be equipped with mirrors to cover the so-called lateral blind spot. It is too early to draw conclusions from the still ongoing assessment by the Dutch Government. The EU directive Directive 2003/97/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 10 November 2003 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of devices for indirect vision and of vehicles equipped with these devices, amending Directive 70/156/EEC and repealing Directive 71/127/EEC, OJ L 25, 29.1.2004. to which the question of the Honourable Member refers was adopted after the introduction of the Dutch legislation referred to above and implements a different technical solution. This directive will be applicable only to new vehicles and has to be transposed by January 2006 for new vehicle types and by January 2007 for new vehicles. Although some manufacturers have already started on a voluntary basis to fit the new mirrors to some of their vehicles, the effects of this directive cannot yet be measured. The text of this directive is clear about the fact that the transposition dates are fixed and may not be brought forward or pushed back unilaterally by the Member States. Contrary to the initial proposal of the Commission, the present transition periods have been considered necessary by Parliament and the Council to allow manufacturers to modify their production lines. In view of the relatively short time remaining until the requirements of the directive have to be applied, the Commission does not intend to propose legislation to bring the transposition dates forward. However, this year, the Commission has adapted the directive to technical progress by extending the obligation for a wide-angle mirror to almost all vehicles beyond 3.5 tonnes. The Commission is currently assessing, in the context of the preparation of the mid-term review of the European road safety action programme, the case for a new and complementary EU legislation to retrofit vehicles already in circulation.