FAQs on internet access safeguards and the telecoms package Information society 2009-11-05 - 19:35 A user's internet access may be restricted, if necessary and proportionate, only after a fair and impartial procedure including the user's right to be heard. In the early hours of Thursday 5 November, MEPs and Council representatives agreed on this, the last open issue in the telecoms package. MEPs insisted in Wednesday's conciliation meeting on establishing adequate procedural safeguards for internet access, in line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms guaranteeing effective judicial protection and due process. The FAQs below look more closely at the internet access safeguards included in the telecoms package. 20091105BKG63887 Q1. What did Parliament achieve with the Telecoms Package of two directives and one regulation? A1: Parliament ensured today (Thursday 5 November) that internet users who are suspected of breaking the law cannot be cut off without due process . In negotiations with the EU telecommunication ministers (mostly represented by their ambassadors), MEPs successfully demanded that any restriction has to be the result of "a prior, fair and impartial procedure" including the user's right to be heard - to defend himself. This means that only when there is real proof of a criminal act can restrictions be imposed: there is a presumption of innocence until otherwise proven. Q2: Why was safeguarding the right to internet access important to Parliament? A2: MEPs considered access to the internet to be a fundamental right but so far there has been no specific EU legislation protecting this right . Since this area was not covered by EU law, it has until now been the Member States who decide on access to internet. Q3: What did Parliament do to secure this right to access? A3: In the original draft legislation no mention was made of protecting internet users' right to access and thus to freedom of information and freedom of expression. The EP therefore decided to amend the bill to ensure this right of access. It did this by adopting the now famous "amendment 138", which sought safeguards against unduly restricting a user's internet access by requiring a "prior ruling by the judicial authorities". The EU ministers rejected the amendment, so Parliament adopted it again at second reading. Once again the ministers rejected it. And so a "conciliation procedure" with Parliament and government representatives was required to negotiate a final compromise. Q4: There were reports that, in these negotiations with the Council, Parliament changed its position? Is that true? A4: Yes and no. As far as the substance of the amendment is concerned, Parliament stuck to its guns and won a victory. But in order to do that it had to change the wording of the amendment, so that the final text would stand up in the European Court of Justice, which rules on the validity of EU legislation. Q5: What are the safeguards obtained by Parliament? A5: When a national judicial or competent administrative authority wants to cut off a user's access to the internet, a specific procedure must be followed.