for education and training; d) support for European networks and partnerships that promote and strengthen the pedagogical and educational use of Internet and ICT and for the exchange of good practice. These activities are designed to ensure that teachers and pupils are not only technically proficient at using Internet and ICT but are also proficient in a pedagogical, critical and responsible sense; e) support for European cooperation , transfer of e-learning products, and dissemination and exchange of good practice; f) technical and administrative assistance. Article 4 Implementation of the programme and cooperation with the Member States 1. The Commission shall: a) ensure the implementation of the Community actions covered by the programme in conformity with the Annex; b) ensure synergies with other Community programmes and actions in the field of education, research, social policy and regional development; c) foster and facilitate cooperation with international organisations developing activities in the field of e-learning. 2. The Member States shall identify appropriate correspondents who shall cooperate closely with the Commission as regards relevant information about e-learning use and practice. Article 5 Implementing measures 1. The following measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision shall be adopted in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 6(2): a) the annual plan of work, including priorities, and the selection criteria and procedures and results; b) the annual budget and the breakdown of funds among the different actions of the programme, in accordance with Articles 9 and 10; c) the measures for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results. 2. All other measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 6(3). Article 6 Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at two months. 3. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 4. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. Article 7 Consistency and complementarity 1. The Commission shall, in cooperation with the Member States, ensure overall consistency and complementarity of the programme with other relevant Community policies, instruments and actions, in particular with the Socrates, Leonardo da Vinci education and training programmes and the Youth programme. 2. The Commission shall ensure efficient linkage and, where appropriate, coordinated actions, between this programme and the programmes and actions in the area of new technologies for education and training, in particular with the relevant actions for research, technological development and demonstration activities under the sixth framework programme. Article 8 Funding 1. The financial framework for the implementation of the programme for the period specified in Article 1 is hereby set at EUR 44 million. 2. Annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limit of the