9999/C Q999 E/009 WRITTEN QUESTION E-0333/04 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Council (30 January 2004) Subject: The unchanged human rights and democracy situation in China and Hong Kong, the threat to Taiwan and the need for the arms embargo 1. Does the Council agree that the main change for the better in the People's Republic of China since 1989 has been its rapid and often uncontrolled economic growth, which gives rise to the hope that in future the people of China will no longer need to live in poverty? 2. Has the Council been able to detect major improvements in the People's Republic of China since 1989 with regard to freedom of association, freedom of speech and freedom of the press? 3. Has the Council been able to detect major improvements in the People's Republic of China since 1989 as regards refraining from arresting political dissidents, ending the monopoly on power of a single political party or abolishing the frequently used death penalty? 4. Has the Council been able to detect major improvements since 1989 in the handling of the efforts of the inhabitants of the former British crown colony of Hong Kong, now part of China, towards a fully fledged parliamentary democracy based on the rule of law? 5. Has the Council been able to detect major improvements since 1989 as regards setting aside plans to conquer the island of Taiwan, which belonged to China only between 1945 and 1949, and whose original population is now opting for lasting independence and neighbourly relations with China? 6. Is the Council sure that tragic events involving the power of the State, comparable with the crackdown on the uprising in 1989, could now never happen again? 7. Is the Council prepared to guarantee that the arms embargo against the People's Republic of China is maintained at the same level for as long as there is no constitutional democracy in that country, obstacles are placed in the path of democracy in Hong Kong and no non-aggression pact is concluded between China and Taiwan?