9999/C Q999 E/027 WRITTEN QUESTION E-0239/04 by Olivier Dupuis (NI) to the Commission (22 January 2004) Subject: Persecution of Christians and Buddhists in the Lao People's Democratic Republic The authorities of the Lao People's Democratic Republic recently ordered the arrest of 11 Lao Christians. According to statements made to the Vientiane Times by Mr Yong Chanthalangy, a spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, those arrested are accused of 'possessing poisons'. In the same interview, Mr Yong stressed that his country recognises complete freedom of religion, and he rejected the accusations made by various organisations campaigning for the respect of fundamental rights in Laos, according to which the Christians had been arrested for having attended a Christmas mass. The Paris-based Lao Movement for Human Rights had reported the arrest of 11 Christians, most of whom belonged to the Khmu and Oey ethnic minorities, on 28-29 December in the province of Attapeu. At the same time, the movement criticised once again the persecution to which many Christians and Buddhists are subjected, and emphasised that declarations made by the Vientiane authorities advocating freedom of religion are aimed primarily at donor countries and organisations. In reality, religious freedom is viewed as a threat to the regime in power. The spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that the persons in question 'had not been charged but were arrested for questioning on charges of possession of poisons'. Mr Yong also denied reports by Radio Free Asia and other foreign news agencies that 10 Christians had been arrested in the southern province of Savannakhet because they were organising a demonstration against the arrests of Christians in Attepeu. What information does the Commission have on the arrests of Lao Christians in the provinces of Attapeu and Savannakhet? Does the Commission not believe that arrests of Lao citizens without any charges being made are a manifest violation of democratic principles, the rule of law and fundamental rights, which are the foundations of the EU-Lao PDR Cooperation Agreement? Does the Commission still believe that the Cooperation Agreement should be upheld, despite systematic and extremely serious violations by the Vientiane authorities? Did the Commission raise these issues during the last meeting of the EU-Lao PDR Joint Committee on 7 January 2004? If so, what outcome was achieved?