That test shall be organised by the Member States' competent authorities or an entity designated by them and shall serve to check whether, for the aforementioned subjects, the trainee driver has the level of knowledge required in section 1 of Annex I. The said authorities or entities shall supervise the test and, upon successful completion, issue the drivers with a CPC certifying an initial qualification. (b) CPC awarded on the basis of tests In accordance with Article 3(1) (a)(ii) , Member States shall require trainee drivers to pass the theoretical and practical tests referred to in point 2.2 of section 2 of Annex I. These tests shall be organised by the Member States' competent authorities or an entity designated by them and shall serve to check whether, for all the aforementioned subjects, the trainee driver has the level of knowledge required in section 1 of Annex I. The said authorities or entities shall supervise the tests and, upon successful completion, issue the drivers with a CPC certifying an initial qualification. 2. CPC certifying an accelerated initial qualification In accordance with Article 3(2), Member States shall require trainee drivers to attend courses in an approved training centre. These courses shall cover all the subjects referred to in section 1 of Annex I. This training shall conclude with the test provided for in section 3 of Annex I. That test shall be organised by the Member States' competent authorities or an entity designated by them and shall serve to check whether, for the aforementioned subjects, the trainee driver has the level of knowledge required in section 1 of Annex I. The said authorities or entities shall supervise the test and, upon successful completion, issue the drivers with a CPC certifying an accelerated initial qualification. Article 7 Periodic training Periodic training shall consist of training to enable holders of a CPC as referred to in Article 6 and the drivers referred to in Article 4 to update the knowledge which is essential for their work, with specific emphasis on road safety and the rationalisation of fuel consumption. This training shall be organised by an approved training centre, in keeping with section 5 of Annex I. If a driver moves to another undertaking, the periodic training already undergone must be taken into account. Periodic training shall be designed to expand on, and to revise, some of the subjects referred in section 1 of Annex I. Article 8 CPC certifying periodic training 1. When a driver has completed the periodic training referred to in Article 7, the Member States' competent authorities or the approved training centre shall issue him with a CPC certifying periodic training. 2. The following drivers shall undergo a first course of periodic training: a) holders of a CPC as referred to in Article 6, within five years of the issue of that CPC; b) the drivers referred to in Article 4, within five years of the respective dates referred to in Article 14(2), in accordance with a timetable decided on by the Member States. Member States may reduce or extend the periods of