is taken without debate, the rapporteur or the chairman of the committee responsible may make a statement of not more than two minutes immediately prior to the vote. Rule 132 Adopting and amending the agenda 1. At the beginning of each part-session, Parliament shall take a decision on the final draft agenda. Amendments may be proposed by a committee, a political group or at least forty Members. Any such proposals must be received by the President at least one hour before the opening of the part-session. The President may give the floor to the mover, one speaker in favour and one speaker against, in each case for not more than one minute. 2. Once adopted, the agenda may not be amended, except in pursuance of Rules 134 and 167 to 171 or on a proposal from the President. If a procedural motion to amend the agenda is rejected, it may not be tabled again during the same part-session. 3. Before closing the sitting, the President shall announce the date, time and agenda of the next sitting. Rule 133 Extraordinary debate 1. A political group or at least forty Members may request that an extraordinary debate on a matter of major interest relating to European Union policy be placed on Parliament's agenda. As a rule, no more than one extraordinary debate shall be held during each part-session. 2. The request shall be submitted to the President in writing at least three hours prior to the start of the part-session at which the extraordinary debate is to take place. The vote on this request shall be taken at the start of the part-session when Parliament adopts its agenda. 3. In response to events that take place after the adoption of the agenda for a part-session, the President, after consulting the chairmen of the political groups, may propose an extraordinary debate. Any such proposal shall be voted on at the start of a sitting or at a scheduled voting time, having been notified to Members at least one hour beforehand. 4. The President shall determine the time at which such a debate is to be held. The overall duration of the debate shall not exceed 60 minutes. Speaking time shall be allocated to the political groups and the Non-attached Members pursuant to Rule 142(2) and (3). 5. The debate shall be wound up without the adoption of a resolution. Rule 134 Urgent procedure 1. A request that a debate on a proposal on which Parliament has been consulted pursuant to Rule 40(1) be treated as urgent may be made to Parliament by the President, a committee, a political group, at least forty Members, the Commission or the Council. This request shall be made in writing and supported by reasons. 2. As soon as the President has received a request for urgent debate he shall announce this to Parliament. The vote on the request shall be taken at the beginning of the sitting following that during which the announcement was made, provided that the proposal to which the request relates has been distributed in the official