9 March 2010 on SOLVIT OJ C 349E, 22.12.2010, p.10. , – having regard to its declaration of 19 February 2008 on investigating and remedying abuse of power by large supermarkets operating in the European Union OJ C 184E, 6.8.2009, p.23. , – having regard to Rule 48 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection ( A7-0217/2011 ), A. whereas the wind of protectionism blowing across Europe is alarming, B. whereas the real economy must be put back at the centre of the political agenda to unleash the full potential of the Single Market, C. whereas the retail market is a crucial component of our commitment to relaunch the Single Market, D. whereas the retail market, as a major energy user and waste producer, can make a key contribution to sustainability, including the EU 20-20-20 energy targets, E. whereas the business potential for cross-border online trade is failing to materialise sufficiently because of various obstacles, such as language barriers, insecurity in the system, inadequate and insufficient information and lack of administrative coordination and cooperation, which make consumers reluctant to purchase online from retailers in other Member States and retailers reluctant to sell online across borders, A vision for more competitiveness, growth and jobs 1. Stresses that the retail sector is a driver for growth, competitiveness and jobs in Europe and plays a key role in reaching the goals of the EU2020 strategy; 2. Highlights that retailers are offering diverse and modern ways of purchasing and selling goods and services and contribute to wider consumer choice as well as flexible and decent employment opportunities, in particular for youth; 3. Calls on the EU institutions to give the highest political prominence to the retail sector as a pillar of the Single Market Act and a vehicle for restoring public confidence in the single market; 4. Calls on the Commission to reinforce cross-policy coordination and to take a holistic, long-term approach to the retail sector; 5. Regrets that serious obstacles still hinder the retail sector from achieving its full potential online and offline; stresses the need to address them without delay; 6. Underlines that retailers and suppliers have a shared responsibility in achieving a more efficient, transparent and fairer retail market; 7. Considers that the primary focus must be on the effective enforcement of Treaty principles, existing internal market rules and instruments, and self-regulation, before considering a regulatory approach, if appropriate; Removing obstacles to free movement of goods and services 8. Is concerned that restrictive national rules, divergent interpretations and inadequate enforcement impede free movement of goods and services in the EU; stresses that requirements for extra tests and registrations, non-recognition of certificates and standards, territorial supply constraints and similar measures create extra costs for consumers and retailers, in particular SMEs, thus limiting the potential usefulness of the single market to European citizens and the business world; 9. Recognises the need for the Commission to further analyse the reasons for price differences in the EU, based on adequate statistical tools, in