CESR shall issue guidance on: 2. By ...* the CESR shall issue guidance on: * OJ please insert date: 6 months after entry into force of this Regulation. Justification CESR has to issue is guidance before credit rating agencies have to apply for registration, see Article 35. Amendment 109 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 2 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (a) the registration process and coordination arrangements between competent authorities and with CESR ; (a) the registration process and coordination arrangements between the CESR and the Member States' competent authorities; Amendment 110 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 2 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) enforcement practices and activities by competent authorities; (b) enforcement practices and activities by the Member States' competent authorities; Amendment 111 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. CESR shall publish by [within one year after entry into force of this Regulation] and every year thereafter a report on the application of this Regulation. 3. The C ESR shall publish , by .. .* and every year thereafter , a report on the application of this Regulation. Th at report shall contain , in particular , an assessment of the implementation of Annex I by the credit rating agencies registered under this Regulation. * OJ please insert date: one year after the entry into force of this Regulation. Amendment 112 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. CESR shall cooperate, where appropriate, with the Committee of European Banking Supervisors established by Commission Decision 2004/5/EC and the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors established by Commission Decision 2004/6/EC . deleted Justification Covered elsewhere Amendment 113 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 18a Reform of the CESR By...* , the CESR shall submit a business plan detailing how a European agency should be operated. The Commission shall subsequently put forward a corresponding proposal, on the basis , inter alia, that the start-up capital for such a future agency is provided, on a pro rata basis, from the budget of the E uropean U nion , by the European finance industry and by rated entities. The agency shall receive additional, current revenue in the form of charges for issued ratings to be paid by the client or the applicant. The agency shall operate in such a way as to cover its own costs * OJ please insert date: 12 months after the entry into force of this Regulation. Justification An independent European agency with sufficient human and financial resources is necessary, given that the cross-border tasks required by the regulation cannot be satisfactorily carried out by 27 or more individual national agencies. Amendment 114 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 18b Non-profit-making organisation For the purposes of implementing this Regulation, a new, independent non-profit-making organisation shall be established to issue