The Week Ahead 4-10 May 2009 2009-04-30 - 16:43 Plenary Session – Strasbourg Telecom package. Reform of legislation on telecom networks, covering both economic regulation and consumer rights will be put to the vote. A text agreed with the Council is on the table (debate Tuesday, vote Wednesday). Economic stimulus. MEPs vote on a €5bn economic stimulus package, including spending on energy projects (debate and vote Wednesday). Maternity leave. Proposals extend maternity leave to at least 20 weeks will be put to the vote (debate Monday, vote Wednesday). Banking regulation. Legislation informally agreed with Council aimed at improving risk management in and the supervision of banks will be put to the vote (debate and vote Wednesday). Asylum package. Laws aiming to improve Europe’s system for dealing with asylum-seekers come to first reading (debate Wednesday, vote Thursday). Working time. The proposals on the working time directive have lapsed as Parliament and Council could not agree a joint text in conciliation. MEPs will debate what should happen next (Monday). Seal products. MEPs will decide whether to support a plan to outlaw sale of seal-based products in all but a handful of cases (debate Monday, vote Tuesday). Flu epidemic. Parliament will discuss preparations to tackle a possible flu epidemic with the Commission (Monday). Summit preparations. MEPs debate preparations for the June European Council and for this week’s Employment Summit in Prague, in which EP President Hans-Gert Pöttering will take part (Tuesday). President’s statements. Hans-Gert Pöttering marks the occasion of his last plenary session as EP President with a speech to MEPs, which will be followed by comments from the leaders of the political groups, and a press conference (Wednesday). He will also speak at the opening of the session to mark 5 years since the reunification of Europe with the accession of 10 Member States in 2004 (Monday). Open Days. Parliament opens its doors to the public, on Sunday 3 May in Strasbourg and Saturday 9 May in Brussels. 2009-05-04 Plenary session Plenary agenda 17:00 - 24:00 - Resumption of session and order of business - One-minute speeches (Rule 144) - Flu epidemic - Commission statement, followed by a debate - Equality between men and women - Joint debate ***I - Equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity - Report by Astrid LULLING (EPP-ED, LU) ***I - Improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding - Report by Edite ESTRELA (PES, PT) - End of joint debate - Aspects of the organisation of working time - Statement by the President of the European Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee ***I - The organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities - Debate on report by Marie PANAYOTOPOULOS-CASSIOTOU (EPP-ED, EL) - Parliament's estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2010 and 2010 budget - Debate on report by Vladimír MAŇKA (PES, SK) ***I - Trade in seal products - Debate on report by Diana WALLIS (ALDE, UK) ***I - Protection