for implementation; 5. Supports also the approach taken in Göteborg to include the reform of EU agricultural and fisheries policies within the wider sustainable development strategy; notes also the intention to present action plans for tackling issues related to outbreaks of infectious diseases and resistance to antibiotics; 6. Is convinced that the decision to apply 'sustainability impact assessments' not only to new legislation but also to all EU policies will prove to be of the utmost importance in terms of environmental protection in Europe; 7. Notes with interest the commitment to promote issues of global environmental governance and especially the decision to seek a 'global deal' on sustainable development at the UN World Summit in 2002; 8. Welcomes, with respect to development, the renewed commitment to reach the UN target for official development assistance of 0.7 % of GDP as soon as possible; Cooperating for peace and security 9. Believes that the development of the European security and defence policy strengthens the Union's capacity to contribute to international peace and security in accordance with the principles of the UN Charter; 10. Welcomes the progress made in the development of a permanent and effective relationship with NATO, but calls for a rapid agreement including Turkey for an arrangement permitting EU access to NATO assets and capabilities; 11. Welcomes the EU Programme for the Prevention of Violent Conflicts, which will improve the Union's capacity to undertake coherent early warning, analysis, and action; 12. Invites the incoming Belgian Presidency to take forward work on all aspects of the ESDP, including national financial contributions, and to report on progress towards achieving the objective of making the EU quickly operational; Transatlantic relations 13. Applauds the renewed commitment to ratify the Kyoto Protocol in spite of the US withdrawal, but remains severely disappointed by the unilateral, non-cooperative position adopted by President Bush on such a global issue; 14. Is hopeful that the identification of five strategic themes ranging from addressing security challenges to promoting growth and a multilateral trading system will make transatlantic relations more coherent and focused over the next few years; 15. Welcomes the successful conclusion of the long-standing banana dispute between the US and the EU, and hopes that other outstanding trade disputes can be resolved in a similar manner; 16. Notes the preliminary WTO ruling that the FSC Act violates world trade rules, and hopes that the US will prove its commitment to international trade arbitration by modifying the relevant legislation in order to avoid a transatlantic trade dispute before the definitive ruling is handed down; calls also on the US administration to seriously consider restructuring its steel sector rather than resorting to trade protection measures which will be of no long-term benefit to US producers or consumers and would introduce severe antagonism into EU/US trade relations; 17. Supports the idea of areas identified for further cooperation or joint foreign policy action with the US, including the Middle East, the western Balkans and the Korean peninsula, and strongly supports the declaration on prevention of proliferation of ballistic missiles, asking for the strengthening of international