Question for written answer E-010385/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Sir Graham Watson (ALDE) (15 November 2011) Subject: Verification of compliance with sustainability criteria under Directive 2009/28/EC Directive 2009/28/EC, known as the Renewable Energy Directive (RED), sets out levels of renewable energy use within the European Union. UK business has been keen to show compliance with the approach addressed in Article 18 of the directive, which allows the Commission to determine voluntary schemes as appropriate for determining and auditing compliance with the necessary sustainability criteria. A number of UK voluntary schemes have been submitted to the Commission since the coming into force of the RED. The UK schemes offer a comprehensive and cost-effective way of auditing compliance with RED and are audited to recognised EN45011 standards and require the auditing of 100 % of participants annually. Currently, however, no UK-based voluntary schemes have received approval from the Commission, and only a small number of voluntary schemes across the EU have so far been approved. The Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation has meant increased demand for RED-verified fuel, but the lack of verified schemes is having a significant financial implication for UK businesses. There is currently only a single audit body in the UK, and many companies are being forced to seek compliance with a separate scheme accepted by Germany. Estimates suggest that compliance with this non-UK scheme has, to date, cost the UK industry approximately GBP 780 000, with that cost expected to rise to close to GBP 1.3 million by early 2012. Companies unable to meet these costs have been forced to not only accept a lower price for material not audited as sustainable, but have also been forced to transport their the crops to alternative customers, incurring much higher road transport costs and, ironically, a more unsatisfactory carbon balance. Is the Commission aware of these problems? Will the Commission release further information and clarity on the progress of the voluntary scheme applications it has received?