indirect holding in an investment firm which represents 10 % or more of the capital or of the voting rights, as set out in Article 7 of Council Directive 88/627/EEC OJ L 348, 17.12.1988, p. 62. , or which makes it possible to exercise a significant influence over the management of the investment firm in which that holding subsists; (27) "Parent undertaking" means a parent undertaking as defined in Articles 1 and 2 of Council Directive 83/349/EEC OJ L 193, 18.7.1983, p. 1. ; (28) "Subsidiary" means a subsidiary undertaking as defined in Articles 1 and 2 of Directive 83/349/EEC, including any subsidiary of a subsidiary undertaking of an ultimate parent undertaking; (29) "Control" means control as defined in Article 1 of Directive 83/349/EEC; (30) "Close links" means a situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are linked by: a) participation which means the ownership, direct or by way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking, b) control which means the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, in all the cases referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking, any subsidiary undertaking of a subsidiary undertaking also being considered a subsidiary of the parent undertaking which is at the head of those undertakings. A situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are permanently linked to one and the same person by a control relationship shall also be regarded as constituting a close link between such persons. 2. In order to take account of developments on financial markets, and to ensure the uniform application of this Directive, the Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), may clarify the definitions provided in paragraph 1 of this Article. TITLE II AUTHORISATION AND OPERATING CONDITIONS FOR INVESTMENT FIRMS Chapter 1 CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR AUTHORISATION Article 4 Requirement for authorisation 1. Each Member State shall reserve the provision of investment services under this Directive to investment firms. It shall ensure that all investment firms for which it is the home Member State operate only after authorisation in accordance with the provisions of this Directive. Notwithstanding subparagraph 1, the Member States may waive the requirement of authorisation under the provisions of this Directive in the case of investment firms within the meaning of Article 2(2)(c) and (d) of Directive 93/6/EEC, which have already been registered under Directive 2002/92/EC. 2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, Member States shall allow any market operator to operate an MTF, subject to compliance with Articles 12 , 13, 24, 27 and 28. 3. By way of derogation from point 1 of Article 3(1), Member States may authorise as investment firms undertakings which are not legal persons, provided that: a) their legal status ensures a level of protection for third parties" interests equivalent to that afforded by legal persons, and b) they are subject to equivalent prudential supervision appropriate to their legal form. However,