the fact that in its opinion on the convening of the last Intergovernmental Conference the Commission rightly pointed out that 'enlargement requires changes in the way in which the institutions operate to ensure their effectiveness in a Union whose membership is set to double' Adapting the institutions to make a success of enlargement, 26.1.2000, (2000) 34, p. 6. ; against the background of enlargement, the question of the costs of the reforms to involve citizens and civil society proposed by the Commission also takes on a completely different light See, with respect to Parliament, the report adopted by the Bureau on 3 September 2001 'Preparing for the Parliament of the enlarged European Union', PE 305.269/BUR/fin.. ; Convention and Intergovernmental Conference 43. Points out that it will examine the topics dealt with in the last chapter of the White Paper ('Debate on the future of Europe') on the basis of separate reports drawn up by the committees responsible and, consequently, these topics will not be discussed in this motion for a resolution in order to avoid overlapping and repetition; Specific measures proposed by the Commission 44. Intends to examine carefully as soon as they are submitted to it the numerous individual proposals and measures announced in the White Paper, such as: - guidelines on collection and use of expert advice White Paper 3.2. , - priority attached to treatment of possible breaches of Community law White Paper 3.2 (Box). , - criteria for the creation of new regulatory agencies White Paper, Proposals for change. , - defining minimum standards for consultation and publishing them in a code of conduct White Paper 3.1, Action Points. , - developing an approach to working with key networks White Paper 3.1 Action Points. , - programme to review and simplify Community legislation adopted before 2000, supported by fast track procedures White Paper 3.2 Action Points. , - codifying the current administrative rules concerning the handling of complaints White Paper 3.2 Action Points. , - examining how the framework for trans-national co-operation of regional or local actors could be better supported at EU level White Paper 3.1 Action Points. , - proposing twinning arrangements between national administrations White Paper 3.2 Action Points. , - a review of the Union’s international representation White Paper 3.3 Action Points. ; 45. Instructs its President forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the governments and parliaments of the Member States. 6 November 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUDGETS for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Commission White Paper on European governance ( COM(2001) 428 – C5‑0454/2001 – 2001/2181(COS)) Draftsman: Catherine Guy-Quint PROCEDURE The Committee on Budgets appointed Catherine Guy-Quint draftsman at its meeting of 1 October 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meeting of 6 November 2001. At the latter meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Terence Wynn, chairman; Reimer Böge, vice-chairman; Catherine Guy-Quint, draftsman; Paulo Casaca, Carlos Costa Neves, Den Dover, Salvador Garriga Polledo, Neena Gill, Jutta