is particularly important in view of the fact that the increasing mobilisation of public opinion in the areas most closely affected by major projects could undermine the credibility of EIB projects unless the EIB conducts itself in an exemplary fashion. In the case of EIB projects outside the EU, there is no shortage of guidelines and codes of conduct for international financial institutions. In addition to Parliament's reports on cooperation policy, the EIB can turn to the vast literature in the field, or indeed ratify existing codes such as the Ecuador principles for investment banks operating in developing countries, the UNEP guidelines and the proposed recommendations to be followed by the World Bank in relation to the extractive industries and dams (a particularly sensitive point for a bank which publicises its commitment to renewable energy: hydraulic energy projects can spell ecological disaster!) Inside the Union, the EIB must acquire invincible expertise in the field of potential project assessment, whether the objective in question is regional development, social inclusion, sustainable development or the knowledge economy. Obviously, the EIB is not capable of formulating and assessing all the European public policies it funds. We must welcome, therefore, the setting up of the Joint Working Group with the Commission. It would be appropriate for this working group to be formalised and for Parliament to be associated with its activities. However, as 30% of the EIB's lending takes the form of 'global loans' which are passed on via intermediaries, it is essential for the same stringency to apply to those loans as to direct lending. The fact that the intermediary banks will continue to be responsible for administering these loans makes it all the more urgently important to formalise the criteria for eligibility, and to organise a transparent discussion of the relevance of the choices made by those intermediaries. In particular, it should be possible to ascertain that the advantageous features of the loans (which offer very favourable rates and repayment periods, due to the EIB’s ‘AAA’ rating) really are passed on to the ultimate beneficiaries rather than being swallowed up by commissions charged by intermediaries. C. Transparency and accountability The EIB has made impressive progress in terms of transparency: meetings almost every six months with the NGOs (European Bankwatch), publication of specific reports on the environment and on the social impact of projects funded in developing countries, etc. But the EIB wishes to go further, and should be commended for doing so. On 15 June 2004 the Board of Directors published its transparency proposals, which, if implemented, would place the EIB in the forefront of the financial institutions and cut the ground from under its detractors’ feet. The EIB plans to consult widely to fine-tune these proposals. In addition to the organisations representing civil society, it would be appropriate for Parliament to be involved in this consultation process. Particularly as all the EU institutions have embarked on an important exercise in defining transparency requirements (under the Aarhus Convention). For all these reasons, Parliament must keep a watchful eye on the progress of this consultation process.