decisions, which has become a basic criterion in its response to each request for waiver of immunity. Immunity is not waived in any case where a Member is accused of actions that come under the heading of political activity. Along with this criterion, there are further considerations that militate for or against waiver of immunity such as fumus persecutionis , i.e. the presumption that criminal proceedings have been brought with the intention of causing the Member political damage (for instance, proceedings based on anonymous accusations, requests made a long time after the alleged facts, etc.), and charges of a particularly serious nature. III GROUNDS FOR THE PROPOSAL FOR A DECISION 1. Article 9 of the PPI obviously does not apply in this case. Absolute immunity, or inviolability provisions, apply only " to opinions or votes cast by (Members) in the performance of their duties". Although it is possible to conceive of circumstances in which Article 9 might apply to a Member in his own country ( delegation or meeting of one of EP's committees, group meeting, etc), the facts and alleged criminal offences put forward by the Czech authorities cannot be considered as falling under the scope of this article. 2. Consequently, Article 10(a), of the Protocol must apply to the facts set in part I of this explanatory statement. It provides that during the sessions of the European Parliament, its Members shall enjoy....in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliamen . 3. Under Article 27 (2) of the Czech Constitution: (2) No Deputy or Senator may be criminally prosecuted for statements made in the Chamber of Deputies or in the Senate, or in their bodies. A Deputy or a Senator shall be subject only to the disciplinary jurisdiction of the chamber of which he or she is member. This article is very clear in saying that it is up to the appropriate chamber to waive the immunity of a deputy or a senator before he or she may be criminally prosecuted. The criminal prosecution seems to include police investigations and the Chamber is not bound by any limitation with a view to granting or granting not immunity. 4. In the case of Dr Zelezný it is clear from the information provided by the Czech Senate that that Chamber gave its consent to the criminal prosecution of Senator Zelezný for acts which are the same that now are described in the application of the Prague Court. The fact of that the Senate has already waived Dr Zelezný immunity is, in accordance with Article 10 ( a) of the IPP, a patent indication that he does not enjoy parliamentary immunity in the territory of his own state. This could be enough for the European Parliament to waive the immunity of one of its Members (provided that he or she is not protected by Article 9 of the IPP). 5. Nevertheless and as pointed out in Part II. C, even though the members of the national parliament (here the Czech parliament) and Members of the European Parliament