Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (2 December 2009) The impact assessment underlying the proposal to amend the EU Emission Trading system (ETS) COM(2008)16 final. clearly recommended not to include emissions and removals associated with land use change and forestry in the ETS due to the inherent risks and uncertainties related to the nature of land-use, land-use change and forestry (LULUCF) activities and the measurement of LULUCF activities. Also the size of potential credits from LULUCF projects could undermine the functioning of the carbon market. In line with these recommendations, the revised ETS Directive, adopted by the Parliament and the Council in December 2008 (Directive 2009/29/EC Directive 2009/29/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 amending Directive 2003/87/EC so as to improve and extend the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme of the Community, OJ L 140, 5.6.2009. ) maintained the provision excluding the use for compliance in the EU ETS of carbon credits generated by land use, land use change and forestry the Clean Development Mechanism/Joint Implementation (CDM/JI) project activities. However, forestry projects may be supported from the revenues obtained by Member States from the auctioning of allowances to ETS operators and are expressly mentioned in the list of possible measures Member States are obliged to finance. Article 10.3 (c) of Directive 2009/29/EC obliges Member States to use revenue from the auctioning of allowances to finance measures to avoid deforestation and increase afforestation and reforestation in developing countries that have ratified the international agreement on climate change, while Article 10.3.(d) lists forestry sequestration in the Community as one of possible measures Member States may finance from their auctioning revenues. At least 50 % of revenues or equivalent in financial value thereof should be used to finance measures listed in Article 10.3., in the case of allowances auctioned to stationary operators. In the case of the aviation, full 100 % of revenues from auctioning, or equivalent, should be spent in that way. In order to tackle the monitoring, verification and accounting problems associated with the LULUCF projects, the Commission supports the objective of developing new financing mechanisms within the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and a reform of the existing mechanisms as part of an effective, efficient, equitable and coherent financial architecture within the international agreement on climate change to be reached in the Copenhagen Conference on Climate Change in December 2009.