lagging behind in the transposition of Community legislation on non-discrimination. The European Year should give them an incentive to make up lost time. Amendment 17 Recital 10 (10) Participation to the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All should be opened to Member States, to EFTA/EEA countries in accordance with the conditions established under the European Economic Area Agreement (EEA), to the candidate countries benefiting from a pre-accession strategy and countries from the Western Balkans, in line with the conditions laid down pursuant to their respective agreements, and to the countries covered by the European Neighbourhood Policy, in accordance with the provisions of the May 2004 Strategy Paper and the Country Action Plans. (10) Participation to the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All should be opened to Member States, to EFTA/EEA countries in accordance with the conditions established under the European Economic Area Agreement (EEA), to the acceding and candidate countries benefiting from a pre-accession strategy and countries from the Western Balkans, in line with the conditions laid down pursuant to their respective agreements, and to the countries covered by the European Neighbourhood Policy, in accordance with the provisions of the May 2004 Strategy Paper and the Country Action Plans. Amendment 18 Recital 11 Does not apply to English text. Justification Does not apply to English text. Amendment 19 Article 2, point a) (a) Rights – Raising awareness on the right to equality and non-discrimination - The European Year will highlight the message that all people, irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation are entitled to equal treatment. (a) Rights – Raising awareness on the right to equality and non-discrimination and on the problem of multiple discrimination - The European Year will highlight the message that all people are entitled to equal treatment , irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. The European Year will make groups who are at risk of discrimination more aware of their rights and of existing European legislation in the area of non-discrimination. Justification The objectives of the European Year should include disseminating information on multiple discrimination and the legal redress available. Amendment 19 Recital 7 a (new) (7a) Since a number of Member States are being slow to implement the relevant Community legislation, the European Year should speed up the transposition process by lending it fresh impetus. Justification As a number of reports, drawn up by research centres such as the European Industry Relations Observatory (EIRO), have shown, some Member States have yet to implement in full the provisions of European law which deal specifically with the fight against discrimination and inequality. The Commission has thus initiated infringement proceedings against some Member States for non-transposition. Since the aim of this programme is to make the public aware of these issues and of every individual’s rights in this area, it is important to draw attention in the recitals to the urgent need for the Member States to complete the transposition process. Amendment 20 Article 2, point (b) (b)