which disregards the condition laying down the period of time during which immunity is enjoyed. Thus, any reference to national legislation as regards the issue of immunity cannot cover the definition of the start of European Parliament sessions. Moreover, the purpose of this provision, which is to ensure the independence of Members, cannot be fully achieved unless the provision is applied in an identical and uniform manner to all Members. Whereas Italian legislation provides that the mandate begins with the proclamation of results, other Member States' national legislations provide that the mandate begins with the opening of the first sitting of Parliament. Therefore, any interpretation of the provision which only took account of the objective of protecting the independence of Members would have to conclude that Parliament was in session as of the proclamation of the election results. Such a broad interpretation would go beyond the letter of Article 10 (a) of the PPI and would appear to be incompatible with the 1976 Act (Article 3). An interpretation of the concept "during sessions" is therefore necessary. An interpretation of Article 10 of the PPI together with Article 3 of the 1976 Act would lead to the conclusion that the sessions begin with the first sitting of the European Parliament. Such an interpretation would be faithful in grammatical, systematic and teleological terms. The Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament (Rules 8 and 10) follow this interpretation by referring to the provisions of the 1976 Act. For these reasons, the rapporteur: Notes that strict adherence to the text favours the last alternative which indeed is the one to be applied in the case in question. Consequently, calls for the immunity of Mr Musotto to be waived, so that he no longer enjoy the protection accorded to Members of the European Parliament pursuant to Article 10 of the PPI. Notes, however, that although the result thus achieved may be textually pure, it is nonetheless shocking in legal terms since it is contrary to the spirit of the text. In fact, the protection thus accorded seems to be of a fragmented nature since Members are not usually regarded as enjoying such status as from the opening of the first sitting but rather as from the evening of the election. Therefore, Members may be attacked in their capacity as Members of the European Parliament immediately after the results are proclaimed and not enjoy any protection at the time. Calls on the Convention and the next intergovernmental conference to correct this anomaly by amending the text of Article 3 of the 1976 Act. Such a revision would allow optimum protection of Members, guaranteeing them real freedom of expression and filling the legal vacuum which exists by making the beginning of the mandate and the proclamation of the results of elections to the European Parliament coincide in time. Parliamentary immunity should take effect as of the proclamation of the election results and should cover all actions undertaken by Members in exercising their mandate including those undertaken after the last session of the European Parliament. IV. Conclusion On the