rationalisation carried out in the hospital sector to avoid hospital overcapacity, imbalance in the supply of hospital care and logistical and financial wastage, the maintenance of a balanced medical and hospital service open to all, or the maintenance of treatment capacity or medical competence on the territory of the concerned Member State. Such a system shall be without prejudice to Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 and, as from its date of application, Regulation (EC) No 883/2004. 3 . The prior authorisation system shall apply without prejudice to Article 3(2) and shall be limited to what is necessary and proportionate , shall be based on clear and transparent criteria , and shall not constitute a means of arbitrary discrimination or an obstacle to freedom of movement of patients. 4. Where prior authorisation has been sought and given, the Member State of affiliation shall ensure that patients are expected only to pay upfront any costs that they would be expected to pay in this manner had their care been provided in the health system of their Member State of affiliation. Member States shall seek to transfer funds directly between the funders and the providers of care for any other costs. 5. Prior authorisation application systems must be made available at a local/regional level and must be accessible and transparent to patients. The rules for application and refusal of prior authorisation must be available in advance of an application so that the application can be made in a fair and transparent way. 6. Patients seeking to receive healthcare provided in another Member State shall be guaranteed the right to apply for prior authorisation in the Member State of affiliation. 7 . The Member State of affiliation shall make publicly available all relevant information on the prior authorisation systems introduced pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 , including appeal procedures in the event of a refusal to give authorisation . 8. With regard to any request for authorisation made by an insured person with a view to receiving healthcare in another Member State, the Member State of affiliation shall ascertain whether the conditions laid down in Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 have been met, and, if so, shall grant prior authorisation pursuant to that Regulation. 9. Patients with rare diseases shall not be subject to prior authorisation. Article 9 Procedural guarantees regarding cross-border healthcare 1. The Member State of affiliation shall ensure that administrative procedures regarding cross-border healthcare related to any prior authorisation referred to in Article 8( 2 ), reimbursement of costs of healthcare incurred in another Member State and other conditions and formalities referred to in Article 6( 4 ), are based on objective, non-discriminatory criteria which are published in advance, and which are necessary and proportionate to the objective to be achieved. In any event, an insured person shall always be granted the authorisation pursuant to Regulations on coordination of social security referred to in Article 3(1)(k ) of this Directive whenever the conditions of Article 22 (1)(c) and Article 22 (2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 are met. 2. Any such procedural systems