Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (18 April 2008) The Commission is concerned about the recent approval by Guatemalan Congress of a bill ‘regulating the commutation of the death sentence’ which represents the ending of the moratorium on the death penalty in place in Guatemala since 2000. The Commission has actively supported the publication of an EU Presidency statement against developments on death penalty in Guatemala and has taken part in an official demarche of the troika led by the local French presidency: this included a meeting with Guatemalan President Alvaro Colom, who announced on 14 March 2008 that he had decided to veto the bill by the Congress. The EU has recently made a declaration welcoming that decision, considering that it is a highly positive development. In addition the EU has expressed the expectations that Guatemalan law makers will not override President Colom’s decision: that would indeed be possible, if the original bill were to be adopted by a two third majority. In the margins of the negotiations of an Association Agreement with Central America in February 2008 the Commission had recalled to Guatemalan authorities that that the European Union opposes the death penalty and that it considers it as a violation of the right to life which does not provide added value in terms of deterrence. In particular, it was stressed that this Association Agreement should reflect that the EU and Guatemala share essential common values and fundamental rights. Therefore, the decision taken by the Guatemalan Congress had given a particularly negative signal in this respect. This was surprising especially in view of the position taken by Guatemala in the United Nations General Assembly in December 2007, when it had voted, together with all EU Member States and almost all of Latin America, in favour of a resolution on a universal moratorium on the death penalty. The Commission is committed to support efforts by Guatemala to the fight against insecurity and impunity; the Commission welcomed the creation in December 2006 of the International Commission against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) and operational since January 2008 and will support its activities through a financial allocation to be granted in 2008. In addition, the Commission is currently defining a future program addressing prevention and reinsertion of youth delinquency.