single telephone line for the reporting of illegal and/or suspicious activities on the network; Amendment 27 Part I, Recommendation I, point 3 b (new) (3b) developing, in European cooperation and in close cooperation with consumers' organisations, regulations in order to reduce food advertising specifically targeted at children and teenagers, especially with regard to junk food and confectionery. Justification A high level of adverts are being broadcast during children's programmes in most Member States. Food and toys are the most frequently advertised products, with confectionery, fast food, sweetened breakfast cereals and soft drinks being the most frequently advertised food categories. While the EU has recently launched an action plan to promote a healthy diet and physical activity, regulation is needed to protect children (a highly vulnerable target group) from misleading advertisements. Amendment 28 Recommendation II, introductory sentence II. RECOMMEND that the industries and parties concerned: II. RECOMMEND that the audiovisual services industry and the on-line information services industry in general and all the parties concerned: Justification In the interests of clarity. Amendment 29 Recommendation II, point 1 (1) develop positive measures for the benefit of minors, including initiatives to facilitate their wider access to audiovisual and information services, while avoiding potentially harmful content, including a ‘bottom-up’ harmonisation through cooperation between self-regulatory and coregulatory bodies in the Member States, and through the exchange of best practices concerning such issues as a system of common, descriptive symbols which would help viewers to assess the content of programmes ; (1) develop positive measures for the benefit of minors, including initiatives to facilitate their wider access to audiovisual and on-line information services, while fostering their media literacy and including closer cooperation between self-regulatory and co-regulatory bodies in the Member States through the exchange of best practices involving: - systematic provision of an effective and easy-to-use filter system for users subscribing to an access service and developing effective filter solutions, taking into account technological progress allowing Internet access via mobile telephones, - offering access services intended specifically for children and equipped with an automatic filter system operated by access providers, and mobile telephony, - introducing incentives to provide a regularly updated description of the sites proposed as a matter of course, making it easier to classify sites using abbreviations common to all Member States and alert users to the possible harmful content of sites visited - posting warning banners on all search engines drawing attention to possible dangers and to the availability of telephone hotlines, Justification Efficient filter technologies exist for the Internet and mobile phones. They are expensive but can be used by the operators present in the market. All that is needed is the political and economic will to distribute them. Finally, industries must apply themselves to describing proposed content so as to facilitate classification of sites and make it possible to develop abbreviations common to all Member States. They must also be required to include warning banners on search engines operated in Europe. Amendment 30 Recommendation II, point 1 a (new) (1a) consider the possibility of creating filters which will prevent child pornography or other