Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Article 3 Each central authority shall without delay inform the central authorities of the other Member States of convictions of nationals of those Member States registered in the national criminal record and of relevant subsequent entries in the criminal record . Each central authority shall immediately and in any event within three months at most inform the central authorities of the other Member States of convictions of nationals of those Member States registered in the national criminal record. Justification The effectiveness of the proposal under consideration depends upon the frequency with which the Member States' central authorities periodically update the data contained in their criminal records. The final section of the article is deleted in order to make the text easier to understand (through omission of unnecessary detail which could cause confusion amongst users of the system). Amendment 2 Article 4, paragraph 2 2. The reply shall be sent immediately and in any event within a period not exceeding five working days from the receipt of the request, under the conditions provided for by national law, by the central authority of the requested Member State to the central authority of the requesting Member State on the basis of reply form B annexed hereto. It shall include the information transmitted in accordance with Article 3. 2. The reply shall be sent immediately and in any event within 48 hours in urgent cases and otherwise within a period not exceeding ten working days from the receipt of the request, under the conditions provided for by national law, by the central authority of the requested Member State to the central authority of the requesting Member State on the basis of reply form B annexed hereto. It shall include the information transmitted in accordance with Article 3. Justification In urgent cases, 48 hours is the minimum amount of time required in many Member States for confirmation to be provided as to whether or not an individual is being held in custody. In other cases the requested Member State may send its reply within ten working days of receiving the request. Amendment 3 Article 4, paragraph 3 3. The reply form shall be accompanied by a statement of convictions. 3. The reply form shall be accompanied by a statement of the convictions entered in the criminal record . Justification The purpose of the amendment is to make the text immediately comprehensible to users of the system. Amendment 4 Article 5, paragraph 1, letter (b) (b) for other purposes within the limits specified by the request ed Member State and in accordance with national law of the requesting Member State. (b) for other purposes within the limits specified on the form by the request ing Member State and approved by the requested Member State and in accordance with national law of the requesting Member State. Justification Where personal data are forwarded for purposes other than criminal proceedings, the requesting and requested Member States must be aware of, and must have mutually accepted, the limits within which such information may be gathered. Amendment 5