Question for written answer E-7116/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Monika Hohlmeier (PPE) (14 September 2010) Subject: Organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities At the part-session in Strasbourg in June 2010 Parliament declared itself in favour of the inclusion of self-employed drivers within the scope of Directive 2002/15/EC on the organisation of the working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities, and in a legislative resolution it rejected the Commission's proposal to exclude self-employed drivers from the scope of the directive. The Commission subsequently decided to withdraw its proposal. 1. An impact assessment by the Commission has shown that full inclusion of self-employed drivers within the scope of Directive 2002/15/EC is not practicable or enforceable. How will the Commission in practice enforce and monitor the inclusion of self-employed drivers within the scope of the provisions of Directive 2002/15/EC when an impact assessment has shown that these provisions are not practicable for self-employed drivers and in addition will lead to serious bureaucratic obstacles which will hugely affect the competitiveness of small and medium-sized haulage firms? 2. How will the Commission take account of the fact that self-employed drivers as a rule do not keep reports of their working time and it is not possible to fully separate private and work time or monitor it even with major administrative outlay for the Member States? 3. Does the Commission see a difficulty in so far as the definition of private activity as work activity could run into constitutional problems in Member States? 4. What supervisory and monitoring measures does the Commission intend to impose on the Member States in order to enforce compliance with the rules in relation to self-employed drivers? 5. Does the Commission think it is possible, instead of the directive decided on, to adopt a directive against false self‑employment, which would meet Parliament's demands? 6. How will the Commission prevent the new directive from destroying small and medium‑sized firms?