Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (7 June 2010) On the questions raised by the Honorable Member the following should be noted. 1. The Commission has submitted 4637 different health claims to the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) for its assessment. Out of this number, EFSA has evaluated and published opinions on 937 health claims. EFSA does not issue opinions on a monthly basis but in series in the sequence the evaluation allows it. The Commission and the Member States have so far not adopted any decisions on the authorisations of health claims in accordance with Article 13(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 OJ L 404, 30.12.2006, p. 9. (hereinafter ‘the regulation’). 2. Article 13(3) of the regulation obliges the Commission to adopt a Union list of permitted health claims by 31 January 2010 at the latest. The unexpected high number (44 000) of submitted claims have extended significantly the time needed both for preparing the list to be send to EFSA for its advice but also for EFSA to evaluate the submitted claims. EFSA has indicated that it expects to finalise its assessment of all the submitted health claims by the end of 2011. In light of this, the Commission has decided to adopt the Union list of permitted health claims progressively. 3. It should be clarified that the process in Article 13(2)-(3) of the regulation is initiated with the submission of national lists by the Member States and that the process does not refer to food business operators for which reason there are no ‘applicants’ in this process. In this context, the Commission has discussed with the Member States the requirements applying to the claims referred to Article 13(1) in an effort to only authorise the claims complying with the regulation. This is an ongoing exercise taking place both prior to the EFSA assessment but also following the EFSA when deciding on the acceptability of the assessed claims On health claims submitted in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 15-18 of the regulation it is the responsibility of the Member States to verify the validity of the health claims applications from the food business operators before forwarding them to EFSA. . 4. According to the legal provisions in place, EFSA as the EU risk assesor, may provide scientific opinions only to the Commission, Member States and Parliament. EFSA's founding Regulation requires that the scientific opinions provided by EFSA are made public including the information (except confidential information) on which these opinions are based. All EFSA's scientific opinions once adopted are published on EFSA's website, which ensures full information of all interested parties. Interested parties are also provided with guidelines on the preparation and presentation of applications that are specified in the implementing rules of the claims Regulation and also in the administrative guidelines published on EFSA's website. EFSA has also organised a series of open workshops to explain how the assessment on claims is performed as well as answering on its website frequently asked questions regarding its assessment of claims. 5. EFSA's founding Regulation