WRITTEN QUESTION E-0414/05 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (10 February 2005) Subject: Fish caught by European vessels in the territorial waters of Western Sahara and the import of fish from the Moroccan-occupied Western Sahara to EU Member States 1. Is the Commission aware that the Pelagic Freezer-Trawler Association (PFA; website: www.pfa-frozenfish.com), an association of Dutch-owned fisheries undertakings in the Netherlands, Germany, France and the United Kingdom, lands large amounts of fish at Las Palmas, in the Spanish Canary Islands, where the catches are stored in refrigerated warehouses before being shipped on to other destinations? 2. Is the Commission aware that the PFA fishes in the maritime waters of the former Spanish Colony of Western Sahara (Rio de Oro and Seguia el Hamra), most of which has been occupied by Morocco since 1975 under a one-year contract with Morocco, concluded through a middleman of Saharan origin, that may be extended twice and in respect of which the prospect of a possible longer-term contract was held out in 2004? 3. Was the contract between the PFA and Morocco established under the auspices of the MEDA Cooperation Agreement between the EU and the Mediterranean countries or as part of the fisheries agreements between the EU and Morocco, or was it signed without any EU involvement, treaties or legislation at all? 4. Is the Commission aware that the frozen fish is exported from Las Palmas to other destinations in the EU, that European undertakings such as the Italian Panapesca company are involved in importing fish from Western Sahara, that the Spanish Jealsa company has been engaged in the construction of a fish-processing plant in El Aiun, which was to have become operational before the end of 2004, and that the ‘Atlantic Dawn’ and the ‘Veronica’, large freezer-trawlers registered in Ireland, have been fishing off the coast of Western Sahara? 5. Does the Commission agree that the fact that Western Sahara is included in the UN list of areas that are not self-governing and are still to be decolonised and that the EU does not recognise Moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara and its territorial waters might be effectively underscored if no European investment in or imports from that region were authorised until decolonisation? 6. Is the Commission prepared to support the application to trade between Morocco and the EU Member States of the provision in the free-trade agreement between the US and Morocco (HR 4842), whereby products from Western Sahara are expressly excluded since the US does not recognise Moroccan sovereignty over that region?