WRITTEN QUESTION P-1095/09 by Dorette Corbey (PSE) to the Commission (17 February 2009) Subject: Treatment of maritime containers with toxic gases Since 2005, it has been compulsory for containers which contain wooden packagings (e.g. pallets) to be free of insects. In order to destroy any insects, highly poisonous gases are used. At the major European ports, millions of containers pass through every year. Research has shown that 20 % of the containers contain poisonous substances, some of them neurotoxic. Warnings are compulsory but often lacking, so that workers at ports and distribution centres are exposed to very harmful gases. As such substances and gases as methyl bromide and phosphines are often odourless, they are not noticed. They can cause serious damage, directly to workers at ports and indirectly to consumers because the toxic gases are absorbed by products (mattresses, clothing, shoes) inside the containers. Inspections are inadequate and expensive. Gassing of containers can easily be avoided by heating containers or using plastic pallets. These come at a cost, but save on the cost of inspections. The money saved on inspections can be used to compensate the consignors (in many cases Chinese or African transport companies). European ports themselves hardly take any initiatives in this context because to do so could affect their competitive position. Coordinated action within the EU is therefore important. 1. Can the Commission provide an overview of the risks of gassing containers, including an estimate of the number of people who receive doses seriously in excess of the maximum permitted? 2. Will the Commission further investigate the problem of container gases? 3. Can the Commission confirm that in principle sufficient alternatives exist to render it superfluous to gas containers with neurotoxic substances? 4. Will the Commission take or coordinate action to ensure that gassing of containers is avoided wherever possible and — where it is really necessary — to impose a requirement to attach warning stickers of conspicuous size to containers? 5. Will the Commission take measures to step up inspections by Member States?