Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (30 November 2010) Considering the importance of Priority Project 18, the inland waterway that includes Rhine/Meuse-Main-Danube, the Commission has nominated Dr Karla Peijs as European Coordinator for Inland Waterways with the specific task of following this Priority Project as well as Priority Project 30, ‘Seine-Scheldt’. Dr Peijs has visited Straubing and has met a large representation of stakeholders in 2008, including regional and local authorities and representatives from the industry and environmental groups. As a result of that wide consultation, Dr Peijs, in agreement with the prominent representatives at the meeting, suggested the setting up of a ‘Monitoring Group’ composed by experts nominated by the inland waterway transport industry and by environmental groups. The task of the Group is to follow the correct development of the Study on an ‘Independent variant research on the development of the Danube between Straubing and Vilshofen’ to which a TEN‑T grant of EUR 16.5 million was awarded through Commission Decision C(2008)6374. The Monitoring Group has been established and has already met several times since April 2010 under the Chairmanship of Professor Hans-Joachim Koch. Dr Peijs is following the developments of the Study through the Monitoring Group activities, as Professor Koch keeps Dr Peijs duly informed. According to the information provided in October 2010, by Professor Koch, the work of the Monitoring Group is proceeding in a transparent way. Upon specific request of the Coordinator, the chairman of the Monitoring Group has confirmed that there is no conflict of interest of RMD according to the German Law. The Commission is informed of the progress of the study and related works through the Annual Activity Report of the European Coordinator. The last report has been made public last October after transmission to the European Parliament and the Member States involved http://ec.europa.eu/transport/infrastructure/european_coordinators/european_coordinators_en.htm .