improve the prudential control of the EIB, as regards both the use of its own funds, and the funds allocated to it by the European Union budget; 23. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the EIB. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Although the European Investment Bank (EIB) is as old as the European Communities, the history of its relations with Parliament is very short: it was only five years ago that Parliament adopted its first own-initiative report on the EIB (drawn up by the same rapporteur as today's report). But what strides have been taken in that time! Back then, a senior EIB official felt free to announce that the EIB was 'accountable only to the markets', an opinion which was not shared either by the markets (which saw no sign of the standards of governance expected of a merchant bank), the institutions, or the citizens seeking to exercise control over the Bank's investment choices. Nowadays the situation is clearer. The Bank acknowledges that it is 'policy oriented'; it belongs to the extended family of International Financial Institutions set up by groups of States signatory to a treaty with a view to providing, or acting as a catalyst for, the funds required to support the objectives of that treaty. This role was confirmed by the important European Councils of Lisbon and of Gothenburg, which set out the precise objectives of the European Union, and by the Rome Council which stressed the role to be played by the EIB in its Growth initiative. There is no doubt that the newly clarified situation owes a great deal to the dialogue maintained over the last five years between Parliament and senior EIB management (who, moreover, have taken to the task with commendable good will). Enlargement has probably been an additional factor which has helped the EIB to refocus on its original purpose. The EIB's activities are almost three times as extensive as those of the World Bank. In 2003, 92% of the Bank's loans were granted to the 25 members and prospective members of the EU, with most of the remaining funds being granted to countries linked to the EU by individual cooperation programmes (and hence, in effect, at the Council's behest). It is only natural, therefore, for the EIB to maintain a dialogue with members of the European Parliament and with organisations representing civil society in order to reach a clearer definition of the Union's expectations of the Bank. A. Objectives The Lisbon and Gothenburg European Councils set out the main objectives to be pursued: a competitive, knowledge-based economy having due regard to local and global environmental constraints. In response to Parliament's urging, the EIB has ensured that its programmes have evolved and its lending has become more selective. For example, whereas in 1999 the proportion of renewable energy projects funded by the EIB was lower than the proportion of the energy base already provided by renewable energy, the EIB now aims to increase that figure to 50%. Parliament must of course encourage the EIB to continue in that direction,