the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes OJ L 358, 18.12.1986, p. 1. Directive as amended by Directive 2003/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 230, 16.9.2003, p. 32). , tests on vertebrate animals must also be replaced, restricted or refined. Implementation of this Regulation should where possible be based on the use of appropriate alternative testing methods. Not later than ... * Seven years after the entry into force of this Regulation. , the Commission should review the rules on the data protection of results from tests on vertebrate animals and where necessary change those rules. (11) Substances should only be included in plant protection products where it has been demonstrated that they present a clear benefit for plant production and it has been established that they will not have any harmful effect on human or animal health or any unacceptable influence on the environment. In order to achieve a high and identical level of protection in all Member States, the decision on acceptability or non-acceptability of such substances should be taken at Community level. (12) To apply the 'polluter pays' principle, the Commission should examine how manufacturers of plant protection products or of the active substances they contain should be appropriately involved in dealing with or rectifying harm to human health or to the environment which may result from the use of plant protection products. (13) In the interest of predictability, efficiency and consistency, a detailed procedure should be laid down for assessing whether an active substance can be approved. The information to be submitted by interested parties for the purposes of approval of a substance should be specified. In view of the amount of work connected with the approval procedure, it is appropriate that the evaluation of such information be performed by a Member State acting as a rapporteur for the Community. To ensure consistency in evaluation, an independent scientific review should be performed by the European Food Safety Authority established by Article 22 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 575/2006 (OJ L 100, 8.4.2006, p. 3 ). (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority"). It should be clarified that the Authority performs a risk assessment whilst the Commission should perform the risk management and take the ultimate decision on an active substance. Provisions should be included to ensure transparency of the evaluation process. (14) For ethical reasons, the assessment of an active substance or a plant protection product should not be based on tests or studies involving the deliberate administration of the active substance or plant protection product to humans with the purpose of determining a human No Observed Effect Level of an active substance. Similarly, toxicological studies