of the transfer proposal shall be presented within an appropriate period of time to the body responsible for registration in the host Member State. Those documents shall be sufficient to enable the company to be registered in the host Member State. The competent authority responsible for registration in the host Member State shall verify that the substantive and formal conditions for the transfer are met. The competent authority in the host Member State shall give immediate notification of the registration to the respective authority in the home Member State. Thereupon, the home Member State authority shall remove the company from the register. Registration in the host Member State and removal from the register in the home Member State shall be published. At least the following particulars must be covered: a) the date of registration; b) the new and former entry number in the respective registers of the home and host Member States. Recommendation 5 (employee participation) Employee participation shall be governed by the legislation of the host Member State. However, the legislation of the host Member State shall not be applicable: a) where the host Member State does not provide for at least the same level of participation as operated in the company in the home Member State, or b) where the legislation of the host Member State does not give employees of establishments of the company situated in other Member States the same entitlement to exercise participation rights as enjoyed by such employees before the transfer. In these cases, the provisions of Article 16 of Directive 2005/56/EC should apply accordingly. Recommendation 6 (third parties concerned by the transfer) Any company against which proceedings for winding-up, liquidation, insolvency or suspension of payments or other similar proceedings have been brought shall not be allowed to undertake a cross-border transfer of its registered office within the Community. For the purposes of ongoing judicial or administrative proceedings which commenced before the transfer of the registered office, the company shall be regarded as having its registered office in the home Member State.