careful consideration of detailed legal advice. In the light of that advice, the Board considered that it would have been a dereliction of our duties as directors and our responsibilities to policyholders not to pursue the claims on your behalf, while it remained cost-effective to do so. We have continued to review the claims with the legal team throughout, in order to ensure that we kept up to date with developments in the strength and cost-effectiveness of the claims. Based on the firm advice of our legal team, we concluded that we must settle the litigation against the former directors with as little additional costs as possible. ... Clearly, this is not the outcome for which we have worked so hard over the last four years and we are extremely sorry that we have been unable, through the Courts, to secure redress for policyholders. Lord Penrose reached clear and forceful conclusions as to the downfall of the Society. However, we must accept that it is a different matter to satisfy a Court that the role of the former directors constitutes a responsibility that leads in law to culpability and redress ." 2. The Compromise Scheme The Compromise Scheme is dealt with exhaustively in Part IV of the report. However, given its relevance for the situation of aggrieved policyholders, certain aspects of it will be revisited below with particular emphasis on the concerns expressed by policyholders. Section 425 of the UK Companies Act 1985 enables a company to put into effect 'a compromise scheme of arrangement' between the company and its members or its creditors or any class of them, subject to the consent of interested parties and of the court. The scheme becomes binding if it is approved by a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors or members or class of members and by the court (see ES 3 Pages 27 and 28. ). ELAS devised such a scheme with the intention of stabilizing the with-profits fund by reducing exposure to GARs and, at the same time, eliminating the risk of legal action against ELAS for mis-selling on the basis of alleged failure to disclose the GAR risk to prospective non-GAR policyholders. In practice, it was proposed that GAR policyholders would get an increase of 17.5% in their policy value in exchange for giving up their rights to a guaranteed annuity rate. At the same time, non-GAR policyholders were offered an increase of 2.5 % in policy values Annuitants were offered a 2.5% uplift on the Total Gross Annuity (see WE 23, page 19). in return for giving up their right to pursue claims, either by legal action or through the Financial Ombudsman Service. According to ES 3 Page 30. , the Scheme was the result of an extensive consultation process involving policyholders and regulators and was developed under intense publicity. EMAG called it a " massive consultation process that was just cosmetic PR window dressing " (WE 75). In ES 3 it is also emphasised that there was a certain degree of time