Question for written answer E-6985/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Othmar Karas (PPE) (9 September 2010) Subject: Excise duty-related problems in connection with cross-border trade in spirit drinks Austrian businesses are reporting excise duty-related problems in connection with the shipment of spirit drinks (which have already been released for consumption) for commercial purposes to Germany. In accordance with Article 33(3) of Directive 2008/118/EC OJ L 9, 14.1.2009, p. 12. concerning the general arrangements for excise duty, the person liable to pay the excise duty which has become chargeable is the person making the delivery or holding the goods intended for delivery, or to whom the goods are delivered in the other Member State. This means that under Directive 2008/118/EC either one of the persons referred to in Article 33(3) can be considered liable to pay the excise duty. In contrast, ยง149 of the German Branntweinmonopolgesetz (the Spirits Monopoly Act) stipulates that, for mail orders, only the recipient of the goods is liable to pay excise duty. Given that German customers ordering in small volumes (restaurants, pubs, etc.) are not prepared to complete the resulting administrative formalities, smaller volumes of spirit drinks will be imported from other EU countries, and small-scale Austrian producers and traders will, in practical terms, be shut out of the German market. Austrian producers and/or traders can no longer act as the party liable for excise duty and thus reduce the administrative burdens on their German customers. 1. Is the Commission aware of the abovementioned problems? 2. Does specifying the domestic recipient of spirit drinks by mail order (which have already been released for consumption) from other EU countries for commercial purposes as the sole person liable for excise duty constitute a breach of Directive 2008/118/EC? 3. If not, what steps is the Commission taking to ensure that excise duty is not a disproportionate burden on the cross-border trade of spirit drinks in low volumes, thereby making it uneconomical?