Answer given by Mr Liikanen on behalf of the Commission (12 September 2003) Methyl methacrylate is not listed in the inventory used in cosmetic products Commission decision 96/335/EC of 8 May 1996 establishing an inventory and a common nomenclature of ingredients employed in cosmetic products, OJ L 132, 1.6.1996 . but the Commission is aware that it might be used in kits to sculpture nails on natural fingernails. Methyl methacrylate is not regulated in an Annex to Council Directive 76/768/EEC Council Directive 76/768/EEC of 27 July 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to cosmetic products, OJ L 262, 27.9.1976 . . However, the Directive states as a general principle that only cosmetic products that do not cause damage to human health can be put on the market (Article 2 of the Directive). Therefore, cosmetic products can only contain safe ingredients. Regarding an adequate safety assessment of cosmetic products, there is an obligation for the manufacturer to keep information on its cosmetic products readily accessible for the control authorities of the Member States (Article 7a of the Directive). This information must contain the assessment of the safety for human health of the finished product, taking into consideration the general toxicological profile of its ingredients and its chemical structure. Therefore, the possible allergenicity of the ingredients needs to be taken into account in the safety assessment. The overall issue of substances used in artificial fingernail systems was already discussed in a Working Group with Member States and stakeholders in February 2001. The Commission asked to send in scientific data for the safety evaluation of these substances. Based on data submitted by industry a safety evaluation of three substances was initiated. These substances (hydroquinone, benzoyl peroxide and hydroquinone methylether) are now subject to restrictions and conditions laid down in Annex III of the Directive. Moreover, if a Member State notes, on the basis of a substantiated justification, that a cosmetic product, although complying with the Directive, represents a hazard to health, it may provisionally prohibit the marketing of that product and inform the other Member States and the Commission of this (Article 12 of the Directive). So far, the Commission has not received such an information from a Member State on a methyl methacrylate containing cosmetic product. The Commission will ask industry to provide information and scientific data on a possible risk associated with the use of Methyl methacrylate in cosmetic products with a view to consulting the Scientific Committee on Cosmetic Products and Non-Food Products intended for the Consumer (SCCNFP) for a safety assessment if necessary. Based on this safety evaluation the Commission could then take appropriate measures.