Answer given by Mr Cioloş on behalf of the Commission (16 June 2011) Regarding the investigation conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), in 2007 OLAF detected possible irregularities in the import of tomatoes originating in Morocco into the European Union (EU), arising from incorrect application of the ‘deductive’ method for calculating product entry prices in the EU, provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 3223/94 Regulation (EC) No 3223/94 of 21 December 1994 on detailed rules for the application of the import arrangements for fruit and vegetables, OJ L 337, 24.12.1994. . However, the Commission does not have sufficient evidence to prove non-compliance by operators regarding the entry price for tomato imports from Morocco. The Commission will examine in detail any new factual evidence it receives on the matter. There is no specific provision on social standards in the agreement because it is a commercial tariff agreement governed by the provisions of Chapter II of Title 2 of the agreement (Free Movement of Goods) OJ L 242, 19.9.2005. . Articles 69 to 71 of the Association Agreement provide for dialogue and cooperation in social matters. Article 64 deals with treatment of workers. In addition, Morocco is a signatory to the conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and has been a member of this organisation since 1956. The publicly available database on Rapid alert notifications (https://webgate.ec.europa.eu/rasff-window/portal/) provides some indication about the level of non-compliance of products with the EU food safety legislation. The database lists findings that were made in border controls and routine market surveillance in the Member States. Products from the EU are subject to routine market surveillance, whereas products from Morocco (as any third country) are subject to border inspection and market surveillance. In accordance with the General Food Law, instances of non-compliance detected by the Member State authorities are reported to the Commission through the Rapid Alert System. If controls indicate significant shortcomings or point to specific problems with a particular crop or contaminant, the Commission takes steps to address the situation with the competent authority in the country of origin and may impose increased levels of inspection at EU borders or even an import ban Under Commission Regulation 669/2009 of 24 July 2009 implementing Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the increased level of official controls on imports of certain feed and food of non-animal origin and amending Decision 2006/504/EC, OJ L 194, 25.7.2009, as amended. . No such measure is currently in place for produce from Morocco. The Commission inspection service of Directorate-General Health and Consumers (DG SANCO) (Food and Veterinary Office (FVO) located in Grange, Ireland) undertook a mission to evaluate the control system in Morocco for pesticides in food of plant origin intended for export to the European Union (mission SANCO 2011/6027, 8-15 February 2011 http://ec.europa.eu/food/fvo/ir_search_en.cfm ). It was concluded that the official export control programmes and the auto-controls of food business operators generally provide assurance that food of plant origin exported to the EU complies with legal limits for pesticide residues. Some shortcomings that were