Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (12 February 2007) In 2005 Germany intended to abrogate the possibility of receiving blank forms (Vordrucke) for imported cars. This change was based on national guidelines for registration certificate part I and II (‘Richtlinie zur Zulassungsbescheinigung Teil I und Teil II’). In its initial version these guidelines held that (parallel) importers will receive a ZB II from the registration office only if they register the vehicle at the same time. The possibility to obtain a non-validated ZB II form, which existed before the adoption of the new guidelines, was terminated. Due to the early intervention of the Commission the topic was discussed in a meeting with the German Authorities in May 2005 and subject to a letter of formal notice under Article 226 of the EC Treaty — the German authorities adapted the guidelines in September 2005 at short notice and prior to their entering into force. By this Germany maintained the possibility to receive a ZB II form for imported new cars. Thus, it was guaranteed that domestic and imported new vehicles can be provided to the customer with equal documents, since it is common practice in Germany that new cars are sold to the customer with such a form. For domestic vehicles the form (already filled with the technical characteristics of the specific car) is provided by the manufacturer itself, while importers can request the form via the registration office. As far as used vehicles are concerned, Germany upheld the changes. Blank forms of ZB II for imported used vehicles were no longer available. In the Commission’s view these changes to the procedure are not contrary to the free movement of goods as foreseen by Articles 28 and 30 of the EC Treaty. Through waiving the possibility to receive a ZB II form, imported used cars are not treated differently in comparison to domestic used cars, since for the latter, such non-validated forms have never been issued. In both cases the vehicles are accompanied by valid registration certificates, either issued by an administration of another Member State or by a German administration. For the purpose of re-registering the purchased vehicle under the name of its new holder there is no difference. According to Article 4 of Directive 99/37/EC Council Directive 1999/37/EC of 29 April 1999 on the registration documents for vehicles, OJ L 138, 1.6.1999. , harmonising community-wide registration certificates, the respective documents have to be accepted in the other Member State. The German Government confirmed that these provisions are respected by the German registration offices. Furthermore, by receiving the previous registration certificate the consumer is able to verify the registration history of the vehicle. In this light and given the changes made to the procedure applicable to new vehicles the Commission has no indication of a legal situation contrary to the provisions securing the free movements of goods. Therefore, the respective infringement procedure in this case was closed in June 2006. The complainants were informed about this decision and the legal reasoning behind it.