positive bias in measuring inflation by the HICP and the uncertainty regarding its magnitude. Finally, the notion that “price stability is to be maintained over the medium term” provides an appropriate framework for the ECB’s accountability as it acknowledges the lags in the transmission of the effects of monetary policy and the existence of shocks to inflation which monetary policy cannot offset in the short run. Conversely, the medium-term orientation gives the ECB the flexibility to respond appropriately to economic shocks, thereby avoiding the introduction of unnecessarily high volatility in real activity and interest rates. 7. Would you support the ECB basing the second pillar of its monetary strategy on an explicit inflation forecast, and if so, over what time period, rather than just using staff projections? To what extent could a mixed targeting strategy (inflation target + money supply target) be defined and evaluated? Macroeconomic projections are an important piece of information that the Governing Council analyses under the second pillar of the ECB’s monetary policy strategy. They represent a useful tool for consistently organising a large body of economic data and help to build an overall picture of possible future developments. As such, I fully support their use and regard their publication as important in order to enhance the transparency of the monetary policy process. However, I do not favour making macroeconomic projections and the adoption of an explicit inflation forecast the unique or all-encompassing tool for the conduct of monetary policy. There are a number of drawbacks associated with projections that one should always bear in mind. In particular, projections are generally model specific, i.e. their outcome is very much based on a model that, by its very nature, cannot offer a complete representation of economic reality, are surrounded by considerable uncertainty and can hardly take into account all available information in a timely manner. A diversified and comprehensive analysis of all available information, underlying the ECB’s approach, is more appropriate. For this reason, I subscribe to the views of the ECB on this matter. Moreover, I deem it important that, within the ECB’s framework, there exists a clear separation of the preparation of projections, as carried out under the responsibility of the staff, from the monetary policy decisions taken by the Governing Council. I believe this separation enhances the usefulness of staff forecasts as an input in the decision-making process and the transparency of the overall monetary policy framework. There is no reason, in my view, for the Governing Council to take responsibility for the projections. In addition, the Governing Council must feel free to use the projections of others rather than the staff projections as input for taking policy decisions. Finally, I would not support the adoption of a mixed strategy combining an inflation target and a money supply target. Indeed, such a strategy is not feasible in an uncertain economic environment. Adoption of such a strategy would merely cause confusion and would hardly provide a transparent framework. Rather, I believe that the ECB in pursuing its primary objective should look at all available information, in a