Parliament Amendment 1 Article 3, point (1 a) (new) (1a) "sea ferry or cruise travellers" means any passenger travelling by means of a scheduled maritime ferry, liner or cruise ship for at least 50 kilometres; Justification The proposed higher thresholds for air travel should not disadvantage the passenger shipping industry unduly and this amendment seeks to extend the higher thresholds to sea journeys of a reasonable duration, which would make multiple crossings uneconomical and not easily open to abuse for commercial gain. Amendment 2 Article 8, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 1. Member States shall exempt from VAT and excise duty imports of goods, other than those referred to in Section 3, the total value of which does not exceed EUR 220 per person. 1. Member States shall exempt from VAT and excise duty imports of goods, other than those referred to in Section 3, the total value of which does not exceed EUR 330 per person. Justification Although there is less scope to increase the allowances for road crossings due to the risk of significant loss to the tax base of those Member States which have land borders with jurisdictions outside the EU e.g. the Baltic states, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary, nevertheless if a significantly higher threshold is adopted for sea and air travel then it would be appropriate to marginally increase the land crossing value above the Commission proposal. Amendment 3 Article 8, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 In the case of air travellers, the monetary threshold specified in the first subparagraph shall be EUR 500 . In the case of air travellers, or sea ferry or cruise passengers, the monetary threshold specified in the first subparagraph shall be EUR 1000 . Justification As the proposed new thresholds are arbitrary and subject to debate according to individual Member States’ national interests it is proposed to have a range of possible monetary thresholds for the ECON Committee to consider as possible options. Amendment 4 Article 8, paragraph 2 2. Member States may lower the monetary threshold for travellers under fifteen years old , whatever their means of transport. However, the monetary threshold may not be lower than EUR 110. 2. Member States may lower the monetary threshold for travellers under the age of sixteen , whatever their means of transport. However, the monetary threshold may not be lower than EUR 110. Justification Sixteen has become the age of responsibility in much of the EU and this is designed to reflect this sociological fact. Amendment 5 Article 9, paragraph 2 Member States may choose to distinguish between air travellers and other travellers by applying the minimum quantitative limits specified in paragraph 1 only to travellers other than air travellers. Member States may choose to distinguish between air travellers, or sea ferry or cruise passengers, and other travellers by applying the minimum quantitative limits specified in paragraph 1 only to travellers other than air travellers or sea ferry or cruise passengers . Justification The lower limits of tobacco products are primarily intended as a public health measure but there is a risk of tobacco smuggling