Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (23 July 2010) 1. The EUR 700 million referred to in the previous response represented the total additional costs of the IOV Programme at the end of 2009. Of this, EUR 426 million were financed from EU budget. ESA has recently informed the Commission of an additional need of EUR 133.5 million for the IOV industrial activities, including the extension of operations of the GIOVE-A and –B satellites. A modification of the European Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) work programme is currently being carried out in order to mobilise this additional financial requirement. 2. The Commission anticipates additional financial needs to complete the Full Operational Capability (FOC) of Galileo and pursue the exploitation of EGNOS. The rationale behind this is the following: a. The cost increases and the additional expenditures necessary to complete the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme have been financed on EU budget. b. The ongoing procurement exercise for the Galileo Programme's FOC has shown that the deployment of the GNSS will need to face increased costs. In particular but not exclusively the prices of the launchers are on average around 80 % over the cost estimates that lie at the base of the 2007 estimations of the programme's financing requirements. c. The programmes will also face the obsolescence of the EGNOS system. The system needs to be upgraded and enhanced as new developments are required to satisfy user's requirements, like the extension of EGNOS' geographical coverage over Europe. d. To benefit from economies of scale in the production of receivers for the Public Regulated Service (PRS) and secure a better market penetration of this service, some initial investment needs to be done to guarantee the first development of such receivers. e. Finally, it is worth recalling that to reach the EUR 3.4 billion made available under the GNSS Regulation (683/2008), the EU's contribution to research in the domain of satellite navigation was drastically cut when EUR 400 million initially earmarked for these activities was reallocated to the GNSS Programmes. This left the EU's R & D activities drastically underfinanced and puts at risk Europe's ability to take its fair share of the growing market of GNSS-based applications and services. 3. The Commission is currently reviewing their market forecast. The previous estimates shows that the market is expected to grow from about EUR 124 billion in 2008 to EUR 240 billion in 2025.