complement to the measures provided for under Articles 4 and 8 of Directive 2006/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2006 on waste OJ L 114, 27.4.2006, p. 9. , and Articles 2 and 5 of Council Directive 91/689/EEC of 12 December 1991 on hazardous waste OJ L 377, 31.12.1991, p. 20. Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 166/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 33, 4.2.2006, p. 1). . Those specific measures should also encompass non-professional users, since inappropriate handling is very likely to occur in this group of users due to the lack of knowledge. (15) The application of general and crop-specific standards of Integrated Pest Management by all farmers would result in a better targeted use of all available pest control measures, including pesticides. Therefore, it would contribute to a further reduction of the risks to human health and the environment and the reduction of pesticide use . Member States should promote low pesticide-input farming, in particular general and crop-specific standards of Integrated Pest Management and the increase of land under organic farming , and establish necessary conditions for implementation of integrated pest management techniques. Additionally, Member States should implement mandatory crop-specific standards of Integrated Pest Management. Member States should use economic instruments for the promotion of Integrated Pest Management to provide advice and training for farmers, and to reduce the risks of pesticide use. A levy on pesticide products should be considered as one of the measures to finance the implementation of general and crop-specific methods and practices of Integrated Pest Management and the increase of land under organic farming . (16) It is necessary to measure the progress achieved in preventing the use of pesticides and their risks and adverse impacts ▐for human health and the environment. Appropriate means are harmonised use and risk indicators that will be established at Community level. Member States should use those indicators to manage reduction of pesticide use and risk reduction at national level and for reporting purposes, while the Commission should calculate indicators to evaluate progress at Community level. Until common indicators are available, Member States should be entitled to use their national indicators , which must be in line with the requirements of this Directive and relate to both the health and environmental risks of pesticide use . (17) With a view to applying the polluter-pays principle, the Commission should examine appropriate ways of involving manufacturers of pesticides and/or their active substances in the work of dealing with and rectifying damage which may be caused to human health or the environment through the use of pesticides. (18) Member States should lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Directive and ensure that the provisions are implemented. The penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. (19) Since the objectives of this Directive, namely to protect human health and the environment from the possible risks associated with the use of pesticides, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better achieved