Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (1 March 2011) Food supplements are regulated at EU level by Directive 2002/46/EC of Parliament and of the Council on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to food supplements OJ L 183, 12.7.2002. . This directive lays down general provisions relating to these products such as adequate and appropriate labelling. In order to enable consumers to make an informed choice which should not result in over-consumption of food supplements, Directive 2002/46/EC foresees the following specific labelling requirements: — the portion of the product recommended for daily consumption; — a warning not to exceed the stated recommended daily dose; — a statement to the effect that food supplements should not be used as a substitute for a varied diet. That mandatory information, if used correctly, should prevent adverse effects induced by over-consumption. In addition, the directive foresees the setting of maximum amounts of vitamins and minerals in food supplements. The Commission has initiated work on this subject. In the case where a food product on the market is found to present a risk to health, the competent authorities in Member States shall notify the information to the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF), a tool, managed by the Commission, for exchange of information between Member States' competent authorities on food in cases where a risk to human health has been identified and measures have been taken. This rapid exchange of information allows all Member States' authorities to take any necessary measures with regard to unsafe products in a rapid, coherent and simultaneous manner. Awareness by health professionals with regard to health problems and information to consumers relating to the importance of a balanced diet are more within the responsibilities of the Member States. The EU ‘Strategy for Europe on Nutrition, Overweight and Obesity-related Health Issues’, adopted in 2007 puts forward areas for EU and Member State action http://ec.europa.eu/health/archive/ph_determinants/life_style/nutrition/documents/nutrition_wp_en.pdf in order to promote healthy diets, as well as to reverse the decline in physical activity levels. Action is delivered both at national level by Member States as well as by stakeholders who commit to concrete initiatives in that direction. The implementation of this action is coordinated by a High Level Group on Nutrition and Physical Activity, composed of representatives from all Member States while stakeholders' coordination is ensured by the Platform on Diet, Physical Activity and Health.