primary production of a food, up to and including its storage, transport, sale or supply to the final consumer and, where relevant to food safety, the production, manufacture , storage, transport and distribution of feed products ; Amendment 43 Article 3, point 18 18. "unfit for human consumption or contaminated " means that the food is unacceptable for human consumption according to its intended use, for reasons of contamination, whether by extraneous matter or otherwise, or through putrefaction, deterioration or decay ; 18. "unfit for human consumption means that the food is unacceptable for human consumption, where putrefaction, deterioration or decay would cause harm to human health ; Amendment 44 Article 3, point 18 a (new) 18a. "contaminated" means that the food is unacceptable for human consumption for reasons of contamination by extraneous matter above approved safety levels; Amendment 45 Article 3, point 19 19. "primary production" means the production, rearing or growing of primary products up to and including harvesting, milking and farmed animal production prior to slaughter. It also includes hunting and fishing. 19. "primary production" means the production, rearing or growing of primary products up to and including harvesting, milking and farmed animal production prior to slaughter. It also includes hunting and fishing, and the harvesting of wild products for commercial purposes. Amendment 46 Article 3, point 19 a (new) 19a. "marketing" means holding, displaying and offering for sale, selling, delivering or any other form of placing on the market in the Community. Amendment 47 Article 4, paragraph 1 This Chapter shall relate to all stages of the production and distribution of food and to feed produced for, or fed to, food-producing animals. This Chapter shall relate to all stages of the production , processing and distribution of food and to feed products produced for, or fed to, food-producing animals, including the importation and exportation of foods and feed products . Amendment 48 Article 4, paragraph 2 2. The general principles laid down in Articles 5 to 8 shall form a general framework of a horizontal nature to be followed when new measures are established . 2. The general principles laid down in Articles 5 to 8 shall form a general framework of a horizontal nature in respect of food law . Amendment 49 Article 5, paragraph 1 1. Food law shall pursue one or more of the general objectives of the protection of human life, health or safety, the protection of consumers" interests, and other objectives, including, where appropriate, the protection of the environment, the protection of animal health, life and welfare and the protection of plant health and life . 1. Food law shall pursue one or more of the general objectives of the protection of human life, health or safety, the protection of consumers" interests, and other objectives, including, where appropriate, measures to combat food fraud, the protection of the environment, the protection of animal health, life and welfare and the protection of plant health. Amendment 50 Article 5, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. Food law is one of the instruments available to the Community for