WRITTEN QUESTION E-2324/04 by Rolandas Pavilionis (UEN) to the Commission (5 October 2004) Subject: Linguistic reforms required by the use of the word ‘euro’ and consequent non-financial losses The decision to use the word ‘euro’ in official EU documents, without adapting the word so that it complies with the grammatical structure of Lithuanian and Latvian, would entail a linguistic reform of those languages. As things stand, it is quite impossible to use the word ‘euro’ in those languages because the final ‘o’ does not exist in the nominative singular in the Baltic languages. Accordingly, the (English) word ‘euro’ must be rendered as ‘euras’ in Lithuanian and as ‘eira’ in Latvian (which uses ‘Eiropa’ to render ‘Europe’). If they are to meet the requirements of Council Regulation (EC) No 974/98 OJ L 139, 11.5.1998, p. 1 . and use the word ‘euro’ in official documents in their languages, Latvia and Lithuania will have to embark upon a linguistic reform. Normally, national experts adapt all foreign words so that they fit into the Baltic languages. But now the current grammatical structures of Lithuanian and Latvian will have to be changed so as to accommodate the foreign word ‘euro’. The Baltic languages were not official languages of the EU on the day when Council Regulations (EC) Nos 1103/97 OJ L 162, 19.6.1997, p. 1 . and 974/98 were adopted. As a result, no account was taken of the linguistic peculiarities of those languages. If the linguistic reforms required by the introduction into Lithuanian and Latvian of the term ‘euro’ were to be implemented, speakers of Lithuanian and Latvian would automatically become less literate. Several million European citizens will waste large amounts of time in trying to adapt their speech so that it conforms to the new grammatical rules which will have to be adopted in order to comply with the Council's requirements. How can that time be recovered, and what measures can be taken to offset the psychological dissatisfaction felt by those several million citizens?