shall send to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the implementation of the budget, covering both revenue and expenditure broken down by chapter, article and item. This report shall also provide details of the utilisation of appropriations carried over from previous financial years. 3. The figures and the report on implementation of the budget shall at the same time be sent to the Court of Auditors. CHAPTER 3 Accounting Section 1 Common provisions Article 132 1. The institution's accounting system is the system serving to organise the budgetary and financial information in such a way that figures can be input, filed and registered. 2. The accounts shall consist of general accounts and budgetary accounts. These accounts shall be kept in euro on the basis of the calendar year. 3. The figures in the general accounts and the budgetary accounts shall be adopted at the close of the budgetary year so that the accounts referred to in Chapter 1 can be drawn up. 4. Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 and 3, the authorising officer by delegation may keep analytical accounts. Article 133 1. The Commission's accounting officer shall, after consulting the accounting officers of the other institutions and bodies referred to in Article 185, adopt the accounting rules and methods and the harmonised chart of accounts to be applied by all the institutions, the offices referred to in Title V of part two and all the bodies referred to in Article 185. 2. When adopting the rules and methods referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission's accounting officer shall be guided by the internationally accepted accounting standards for the public sector but may depart from them where justified by the specific nature of the Communities' activities. Section 2 General accounts Article 134 The general accounts shall record, in chronological order using the double entry method, all events and operations which affect the economic and financial situation and the assets and liabilities of the institutions and bodies referred to in Article 185. Article 135 1. Movements on the accounts and the balances shall be entered in the accounting ledgers. 2. All accounting entries, including adjustments to the accounts, shall be based on supporting documents, to which they shall refer. 3. The accounting system must be such as to leave a trail for all accounting entries. Article 136 The accounting officer shall, after the close of the budgetary year and up to the date of presentation of the accounts, make any adjustments which, without involving disbursement or collection in respect of that year, are necessary for a true and fair presentation of the accounts which complies with the rules. Section 3 Budgetary accounts Article 137 1. The budgetary accounts provide a detailed record of budgetary implementation. 2. For the purposes of applying paragraph 1, the budgetary accounts shall record all budgetary revenue and expenditure operations provided for in Title IV of part one. CHAPTER 4 Property inventories Article 138 1. Each institution and each body referred to in Article 185 shall keep inventories showing the quantity and value of all the Communities' tangible,