{ "context": [ [ "List of Lab Rats characters", [ "\"Lab Rats\", also known as \"Lab Rats: Bionic Island\" for its fourth season, is an American television sitcom that premiered on February 27, 2012, on Disney XD.", " It focuses on the life of teenager Leo Dooley, whose mother, Tasha, marries billionaire genius Donald Davenport.", " He meets Adam, Bree, and Chase, three bionic superhumans, with whom he develops an immediate friendship.", " It should be noted that the names of the Lab Rats imply that they were originally known as subjects A, B, C and D. Adam was born first, then Bree, then Chase, and finally Daniel." ] ], [ "First Presbyterian Church (Macon, Georgia)", [ "First Presbyterian Church is a historic Presbyterian church in Macon, GA.", "The place was frequently visited by Mr. Joseph C. Stiles, a licentiate and Evangelist of Hopewell Presbytery, who took it in as a part of his field.", " As the fruit of his ministry a church was organized June 18, 1826, of twenty five members, by Rev. Benjamin Gildersleeve, First Presbyterian Church was born in June 18, 1826, just three years after the city of Macon was chartered.", " The church continued to be a part of the Evangelistic field of Mr. Stiles, till 1828, when Rev. James C. Patterson became the regular supply for two years till the Fall of 1830.", " During Mr. Patterson's ministry the first building, a wooden structure, was erected on Fourth street.", " This building was turned over to the Baptists, who removed and enlarged it; and is now the Second Baptist church.", " The Rev. Edwin Holt was the first regular pastor, installed November 20, 1831, and served the church from 1831 to 1834, when the relation was dissolved by the Presbytery of Good Hope and he dismissed to the Presbytery of Newburyport July 27, 1836.", " He was followed by Rev. James Stratton, as supply, for two years.", " He was never settled.", " His name was stricken from the roll March 29, 1843, he \"having joined another church.\"", " He was succeeded by Rev. Samuel J. Cassels, who was installed November 5, 1836 and continued till April 13, 1842.", " It was during the ministry of Rev. Mr. Cassels, that the second house, a brick building commenced during the ministry of Mr. Stratton, was completed." ] ], [ "Wale Adebanwi", [ "Professor Wale Adebanwi, (born 1969), is a Nigerian - born first Black African Rhodes Professor at Oxford University" ] ], [ "Dave Hoskins", [ "Hoskins was the first African American to play in the minor league Texas League, pitching for the Double-A Dallas Eagles in 1952.", " He faced much the same kind of hostility that Jackie Robinson did when he first broke into the majors five years earlier.", " Though players loved him, some fans cursed and taunted him, especially outside Dallas.", " At first, he was not allowed to play in Shreveport when the Eagles traveled there to play the Shreveport Sports." ] ], [ "Augustine of Canterbury", [ "Augustine of Canterbury