Member States to cut the Community budget to 1% of GDP, Kyriacos TRIANTAPHYLLIDES (GUE/NGL, CY) wished to know whether, in Mrs Hübner's view, the resources planned for cohesion policy in the new Financial Perspective were sufficient. The Commissioner-designate referred to the estimates of the current Commission, according to which a reduction in contributions by Member States as suggested by some countries would mean that a cohesion policy such as the present one would no longer be possible. She said the new Commission would argue for a threshold of 1.14% (in terms of expenditure) for the new Financial Perspective. In answer to Jerzy BIELAN (UEN, PL), who wanted to know if aid levels were to be linked to national fiscal policies, Mrs Hübner stressed that "she had always been against" such an idea, that this was not at all the position of the Commission and that she herself had "no intention at all of laying down such conditions for the granting of subsidies". Elisabeth SCHROEDTER (Greens/EFA, DE) asked about the rules for using the efficiency reserve. In her reply, Mrs Hübner acknowledged that this question was highly contentious. She regarded this reserve as "a carrot" for the regions which achieved their objectives but she added that there was a need to define the rules of the game properly. She also said that these additional funds should only be granted in the second half of the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective. When questioned about the budgetary impact on regional policy should Turkey join the EU, Mrs Hübner replied that this impact would not occur during the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective and that pre-accession aid had nothing to do with the budget headings for cohesion policy. Company relocations to be penalised? Alain HUTCHINSON (PES, BE) raised the question of imposing penalties on companies which relocate after they have received regional aid or which push their employees to accept worse working conditions under the threat of relocation, i.e. what is known as "reverse relocation" . Mrs Hübner felt the answer was simple: companies which relocate after receiving aid should refund the aid. Moreover, the new regulations would be stricter, "with the period during which a company cannot relocate being increased from five to seven years" after receipt of regional aid. As for reverse relocations, the Commissioner-designate was outraged. "we live on a continent where the rule of law applies. I find it difficult to imagine that this type of behaviour goes on in some Member States. I find it difficult to imagine that the employers are not punished, sanctioned by national law. I am surprised that there are cases where workers have no recourse and no means of standing up to such blackmail". "Go out and speak to the people" Asked by Mr Beaupuy about communication policy, Mrs Hübner said that the Commission had so far not been very successful on this front. In her view, it was important to be present at local level and take account of the specific nature of every constituency when dialoguing with the public. There was a need to "go out and speak