demonstration of technologies to substantially improve plant efficiency, reliability and cost through development and demonstration of clean coal and other solid fuel conversion technologies producing also secondary energy carriers (including hydrogen) and liquid or gaseous fuels. Activities will be linked as appropriate to CO 2 capture and storage technologies or co-utilisation of biomass. Research, development and demonstration of technologies to substantially improve plant efficiency, reliability and cost through development and demonstration of clean coal and other solid fuel conversion technologies, including chemical processes, producing also secondary energy carriers (including hydrogen) and liquid or gaseous fuels. Activities will be linked as appropriate to CO 2 capture and storage technologies or co-utilisation of biomass. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 25 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 6 "Environment (including Climate Change)", Subtitle "Rationale", paragraph 5, footnote 23 23 Complementary research relating to the production and use of biological resources is addressed under the "Food, Agriculture and Biotechnology" theme. 23 Complementary research relating to the production and use of biological resources is addressed under the "Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, Biotechnology" theme. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 26 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 6 "Environment (including Climate Change)", Subtitle "Activities", bullet 1, indent 1 - Pressures on the environment and climate: functioning of climate and the earth system including the polar regions; adaptation and mitigation measures; pollution in air, soil and water; changes in atmospheric composition and water cycle; global and regional interactions between climate and atmosphere, land surface, ice and the ocean; and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems, including the effects of the sea level rise on coastal zones and impacts on particularly sensitive areas. - Pressures on the environment and climate: functioning of climate and the earth and marine system including the polar regions; adaptation and mitigation measures; pollution in air, soil and water; changes in atmospheric composition and water cycle; global and regional interactions between climate and atmosphere, land surface, ice and the ocean; and impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems, including the effects of the sea level rise on coastal zones and impacts on particularly sensitive areas. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 27 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 7 "Transport (including aeronautics)", Subtitle "Activities", bullet 1, indent 1 - The greening of air transport: reduction of emissions, including green house gases and noise disturbance, incorporating work on engines and alternative fuels, structures and new aircraft designs including rotorcraft, airport operations and traffic management. - The greening of air transport: reduction of emissions, including green house gases and noise disturbance, incorporating work on engines and alternative fuels, structures and new aircraft designs including rotorcraft (including helicopters and tiltrotors) , airport operations and traffic management. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 28 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 8 "Socio-economic Sciences and Humanities", Subtitle "Objective" Generating an in-depth, shared understanding of the complex and interrelated socio‑economic challenges Europe