Answer given by Mrs Kroes on behalf of the Commission (18 November 2005) 1. As a general point of principle, the Commission refrains from commenting on ongoing investigative measures of this kind. The questions of the Honourable Members are directly linked to an administrative investigation carried out by the French stock exchange monitoring body (AMF) and a criminal investigation carried out by the French judicial authorities. Therefore, the Commission will limit itself hereafter to replying to the general questions asked by the Honourable Member. 2. The Commission would like to recall that all officials are bound by the Staff Regulations to conduct themselves ‘solely with the interests of the Communities in mind’ (Article 11) and to ‘refrain from any action or behaviour which might reflect adversely upon [their] position’ (Article 12). Furthermore, Article 17 of the Staff Regulations creates an obligation for officials to ‘refrain from any unauthorised disclosure of information received in the line of duty, unless that information has already been made public or is accessible to the public’. This obligation extends to officials having left the service. Article 16 of the Staff Regulations provides that officials, ‘after leaving the service, continue to be bound by the duty to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance of certain appointments or benefits.’ Finally, the Code of Good Administrative Behaviour annexed to the Commission’s Rules of Procedure states that staff ‘shall always act objectively and impartially, in the Community interest and for the public good. They shall act independently within the framework of the policy fixed by the Commission and their conduct shall never be guided by personal or national interest or political pressure.’ The code is binding on all staff covered by the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of employment of other servants of the European Communities. In view of these statutory obligations, there is no reason for the Commission to prevent officials who have made known their intentions to leave the institution from carrying out their normal activities until the end of their service. 3. In addition to their obligation under Article 17 of the Staff Regulations as cited above, under Article 16 of the Staff Regulations, former officials are obliged to inform the institution of any occupational activity they intend to engage in, whether gainful or not, within two years of their departure. This article states that ‘[i]f the activity is related to the work carried out by the official during the last three years of service and could lead to a conflict with the legitimate interests of the institution, the appointing authority may, having regard to the interests of the service, either forbid him from undertaking it or give its approval subject to any conditions it thinks fit.’ Furthermore, Articles18 to 20 of Commission Decision C(2004) 1597/10 of 28 April 2004 on outside activities and assignments establish clear and strict requirements for former officials exercising professional activities, including the obligation to sign a declaration acknowledging their continuing obligations to the Commission, in particular under Articles 16, 17 and 19 of the Staff Regulations. For a period