may take the following legal forms: – grants, – public procurement contracts. 2. Community grants shall be awarded further to calls for proposals, save in duly substantiated exceptional cases as foreseen in Financial Regulation applicable to the General budget of the European Communities and shall be provided through operating grants and grants to actions. The maximum rate of co-financing will be specified in the annual work programmes. 3. Furthermore, expenditure is foreseen for accompanying measures, through public procurement contracts, in which case Community funds will cover the purchase of services and goods. This will cover, inter alia, expenditure on information and communication, preparation, implementation, monitoring, checking and evaluation of projects, policies, programmes and legislation. Article 9 Implementing measures 1. The Commission shall implement the Community Assistance in accordance with the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. 2. To implement the programme, the Commission shall, within the limits of the general objectives set out in Article 2, adopt an annual work programme specifying its specific objectives, thematic priorities, a description of accompanying measures envisaged in Article 8 and if necessary a list of other actions. 3. The annual work programme will be adopted in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 10(3). 4. The evaluation and award procedures relating to grants to actions shall take into account, inter alia , the following criteria: (a) conformity with the annual work programme, the general objectives as specified in Article 2 and measures taken in the different domains as specified in Articles 3 and 4; (b) quality of the proposed action regarding its conception, organisation, presentation and expected results; (c) amount requested for Community financing and its appropriateness as to expected results; (d) impact of the expected results on the general objectives defined in Article 2 and on measures taken in the different domains as specified in Articles 3 and 4. 5. The applications for operating grants, referred to in Article 4 (b) and (c), shall be assessed in the light of: – consistency with the programme objectives; – quality of the planned activities; – likely multiplier effect on the public of these activities; – geographic impact of the activities carried out; – citizen involvement in the organisation of the bodies concerned; – cost/benefit ratio of the activity proposed. 6. The Decisions related to actions submitted under Article 4 (b) and (c) shall be taken by the Commission in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 10 (2). 7 . Pursuant to Article 113(2) of the Financial Regulation, the principle of gradual reduction shall not apply to the operating grant given to the Conference of the European Constitutional Courts and the Association of the Council of States and Supreme Administrative Jurisdictions of the European Union insofar as they pursue an objective of general European interest . Article 10 Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee") 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply. 3. Where reference is made to this paragraph,