Answer given by Ms Kroes on behalf of the Commission (13 August 2010) The questions posed by the Honourable Member concern the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 717/2007 OJ L 171, 29.6.200. As amended by Regulation (EC) No 544/2009. (Roaming Regulation) in relation to the prices for data roaming services. The maximum wholesale prices for data roaming were set at a safeguard level well above the lowest prices available in the market in order to enhance competition while eliminating the excessive charges that had persisted and which resulted from the very high wholesale prices charged by non-preferred partners. The Commission has recently published its interim report on the state of development of roaming services within the Community Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the interim report on the state of development of roaming services within the European Union (COM(2010)356 final). . A significant reduction in wholesale data prices (from EUR 1.2 to EUR 0.55 per MB) was reported, and the average price is now well below the level of the regulated cap of EUR 0.80 per MB. However, even if retail data prices are following a downward trend, competition is not yet strong enough and the pass-through of the reductions at the wholesale level is still not fully apparent. The Commission will continue to monitor the developments of roaming services and in particular the impact of the default cut-off limit introduced as of 1 July 2010 which the Commission expects will help eliminate bill shocks. By 30 June 2011, it will produce a full review of the Roaming Regulation, assessing whether further regulation of roaming services, including data roaming, will still be necessary, either in the form of price regulation or through some alternative long-term approach. In particular, the Commission will assess how best to achieve the objective outlined in the Digital Agenda for Europe i.e. that the difference in tariffs between roaming and home-country mobile phone calls should approach zero by 2015.