Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (20 November 2007) 1. The applicable legal framework is Council Directive 93/42/EEC concerning medical devices OJ L 169, 12.7.1993. . Council Directive 93/42/EEC foresees that manufacturers of class I medical devices, such as the effecto, can place the device on the market without the intervention of a notified body or an authority. It is up to the manufacturer to declare and to be able to demonstrate through the appropriate documentation that his device meets the provisions of the directive. This concerns in particular the essential requirements, and notably the need for the device to fulfil the performances intended by the manufacturer and the need to ensure that side effects resulting from its use constitute an acceptable risk when weighed against the performances intended. Thus under this legal framework, the onus to demonstrate compliance and to duly affix the CE marking is on the manufacturer. To ensure that these requirements are met, Member States are under the obligation to carry out market surveillance and to take the necessary measures. The problem identified by the German authorities — and this analysis is shared by the Commission — is that the manufacturer does not have the necessary data to demonstrate this compliance. There are doubts in relation to the deposition rate in the lungs of any medicinal product delivered using the effecto and to possible side effects which could result from any higher deposition. On the basis of the requirement that it is up to the manufacturer to demonstrate compliance, the question is not whether the German authorities have proven that the device poses a concrete danger to patients. The Commission does not consider that the manufacturer has given proof he fulfilled the legal requirements so that he is entitled to affix the CE marking and place his product on the market. The Commission shared the view of the German authorities that in this regard there were data gaps on aspects which are crucial in order to demonstrate that the use of the product in the conditions provided by the manufacturer is safe. It has to be reminded that asthma is a very serious disease which affects an important number of citizens in Europe, and that the pharmaceutical products indicated to treat this disease may have in certain circumstances important side effects and need to be carefully used. If the Commission had asked the German authorities, in the absence of the complete demonstration of the safety of the effecto, to allow the placing on the market of this device, such a position could have led to very negative consequences for public health. The position adopted by the Commission is well founded from the legal point of view. It protects public health and at the same time it allows the manufacturer to provide the missing data and, in the future, to put its product on the market if compliance with Council Directive 93/42/EEC is demonstrated. This possibility would have been excluded in the case where the Commission would have considered the national measure justified in the