without, however, recommending a total ban on implants. We consequently welcome the Commission communication, the purpose of which is to lay down the measures to be adopted at the Community and national level in order to address issues relating to requirements in respect of breast implants themselves and the accompanying measures necessary to ensure a suitable level of health protection. II. Assessment of the proposal We are pleased to note that the Commission communication is along the right lines. Virtually all of the suggestions put forward by the European Parliament in its resolution of 13 June 2001 have been adopted, including those relating to advertising, the information required to be given to patients, greater guarantees of the quality of implants and the call to the Member States to keep national registers and to provide for a consent form. However, we consider that the proposal should be improved in relation to the following points: - The communication states that ‘ The consultation procedure may include the provision of a ‘cool off period’ and also recommendations on minimum age for the procedure. ’ We consider that patients under 18 years of age should not receive breast implants for cosmetic surgery purposes, in accordance with the position adopted by the European Parliament in its resolution of 6 June 2001. - Under the proposal, manufacturers bear almost all of the liability, and there is no reference to authorisation of surgeons or clinics. It is essential, with a view to protecting patients’ health, that surgeons or clinics provide guarantees. - Finally, the communication does not adopt the idea of the ‘passport’, which we believe would provide an effective basis for the European database that is to be set up. Furthermore, such a ‘passport’ would enable patients to be fully informed about the operation which they have undergone and the implant itself. III. Conclusions We therefore welcome the Commission communication on breast implants. For us, this is a way of demonstrating to petitioners that we fulfil our commitments. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Petitions calls on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. whereas thousands of women have petitioned the European Parliament to take a stand on the dangers inherent in the use of silicone breast implants, 2. whereas the May 2000 STOA (Scientific and Technological Options Assessment) report on ‘Health risks posed by silicone implants in general with special attention to breast implants’ did not rule out these dangers, 3. whereas the Committee on Petitions submitted a report to the European Parliament on petitions declared admissible concerning silicone implants, and whereas the relevant resolution was adopted unanimously by Parliament on 13 June 2001 ( A5‑0186/2001 ) OJ C 053E/2002 , 4. whereas, in that resolution, the European Parliament focused in particular on the safety and quality of products and pre- and post-operative support, recommending a number of specific measures at Community and national level, 5. Welcomes the fact that the Commission, with a view to addressing the many problems