{ "context": [ [ "Thomas William Smith", [ "Thomas William Smith known as Tom Smith (born 15 August 1883, deceased 15 May 1960) was a rugby union forward who played 58 times for Leicester Tigers between 1906 and 1908.", " Wood made his Leicester debut on 17 March 1906 against Birkenhead Park FC.", " Smith was also a member of the 1908 British Lions tour to New Zealand and Australia and played in the second and third test, drawing the second and losing the third." ] ], [ "Paul Smith (rock vocalist)", [ "Paul Smith (born 13 March 1979, Stockton-on-Tees), is a musician best known as the singer for the British indie rock group Maxïmo Park." ] ], [ "Lower St. Regis Lake", [ "350 acre Lower St. Regis Lake is a part of the St. Regis River in the Adirondacks in northern New York State.", " At its northern edge is Paul Smith's College, former site of Paul Smith's Hotel.", " Along with Upper St. Regis Lake and Spitfire Lake, it became famous in the late 19th century as a summer playground of America's power elite, drawn to the area by its scenic beauty and by the rustic charms of Paul Smith's Hotel.", " It is the site of a small chapel, originally built of logs, St. John's in the Wilderness, that was formerly attended by well-dressed families that arrived in canoes, rowboats and sailboats." ] ], [ "Dale Smith (writer)", [ "Paul Dale Smith (born November 1976) is a writer and playwright from Leicester, England but currently living and working in Greater Manchester.", " He writes under the name Dale Smith, and has had previous works published and performed under the names Paul Smith and Paul D. Smith." ] ], [ "The Blind Owl Band", [ "The Blind Owl Band is an American bluegrass-rock-country-folk band formed by four friends in Saranac Lake, New York in 2011.", " The members of the band are Arthur Buezo (guitar, vocals), Christian Cardiello (bass), James Ford (banjo, vocals), and Eric Munley, (mandolin, vocals).", " When the band formed, their ages ranged from 20 to 22.", " None of them were planning to have a music career until they met at Paul Smith's College in the Adirondacks.", " The band got its name from an incident that occurred at Paul Smith's College.", " They had just finished playing a song, when a saw-whet owl flew into a window.", " The owl got up and just stared at them for a minute, then flew away.", " A saw-whet is also called a \"blind owl,\" and so the band was named." ] ], [ "Paul Smith's College", [ "Paul Smith's College is a private college located in Paul Smiths, N.Y..", " It is the only four-year institution of higher education within the Adirondack Park.", " Paul Smith's College offers both two- and four-year programs in many fields, including natural resources, environmental science, fisheries and wildlife science, forestry, recreation, biology, hotel and restaurant management, culinary arts and business.", " Its 14,000-acre campus is one of the largest college