11 December 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance pursuant to Rule 50(1) of the Rules of Procedure by Jannis Sakellariou and Hannes Swoboda on behalf of the PSE Group on the hunger strike in Turkish prisons Resolution on the hunger strike in Turkish prisons The European Parliament, - having regard to Turkey’s application for accession to the European Union, - having regard to the Copenhagen criteria with which Turkey will have to comply if it wishes to become a member of the EU, - having regard to its report of 19 October 2000 by its rapporteur Morillon on the 1999 Regular Report from the Commission on Turkey’s progress towards accession, - having regard to information from Amnesty International on the situation in Turkish prisons, in particular in F-type prisons, A. concerned about the condition of those Turkish prisoners who are on hunger strike and their deteriorating health, B. extremely preoccupied by the condition of the forty prisoners who have turned their hunger strike into a fast to death since 19 November 2000, C. convinced that prolonged isolation, including small group isolation, may have serious effects on physical and mental health, D. whereas some 800 prisoners in Turkish prisons who have been charged with or convicted of politically motivated offences are continuing their hunger strike in protest, inter alia, against the construction of F-type prisons and the possible imposition of an isolation regime, E. concerned about reports that new F-type prisons do not comply with international standards for prison buildings, 1. Urges the Turkish authorities to take the issue seriously and to meet international standards for prisons and the treatment of prisoners; 2. Calls on Turkey’s government and political parties to implement the necessary legislation for democratisation based on freedom of speech and freedom of opinion; 3. Reminds Turkey of its commitments under the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international and regional human rights conventions it has ratified; 4. Recalls that the criteria agreed at the Copenhagen European Council require all applicant countries to achieve ‘stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities’; 5. Calls upon the Commission’s delegation to continue its close monitoring of the situation and calls upon the Commission to keep Parliament constantly informed about the further development of the issue; 6. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the Government of Turkey and the Turkish Grand National Assembly.