to health in developing countries focuses on the three areas where the EU has an added value: general budget support links to improved health outcomes, promoting a joint EU voice (including their gradual alignment) in the main global initiatives (bringing closer GAVI and Global Fund to the aid effectiveness and International Health Partnership (IHP) compact principles), and support to health in fragile contexts with a especial attention to Linking Relief, Rehabilitation and Development (LRRD) in health. In those three areas, the EU is in dialogue with relevant UN agencies and global partners related to health, child health and nutrition. The Court of Auditors' report on EU support to health in sub-Saharan Africa identifies as a priority the need to increase the EU's capacity in health sector dialogue at central and country levels and increase the links of health with the macroeconomic support and the emergency aid. The EU is working with all health and nutrition stakeholders, including UN agencies (Unicef, UNAIDS) and the civil society to strengthen health systems in the developing countries and to notably enable a more sustained support for tackling child under-nutrition. The EU will improve during 2010 its guidance through the updating and publishing (and web format) of health sector guidelines and relate them to the training seminars in Brussels and Delegations. These guidelines will help future EU delegations to better assess health systems, identify priority areas and engage in key sector discussions and follow-up. They will have a special section on how to progressively integrate disease specific programmes into strengthened health systems delivering comprehensive healthcare and an EU strategy on how to gradually align the main global initiatives (mainly the Global Fund and GAVI) to the Paris and Accra commitments and the IHP process. It is in this process, the EU expects from UN agencies and key global players to also gradually align, apply aid effectiveness principles and the IHP (which they are members of) global and country compacts. Beyond the health sector, the Commission has also recently launched major initiatives to align its external aid policies and instruments to better tackle child under-nutrition. These include especially the ongoing revision of the EU Food Security policy in external aid, and a new Humanitarian Food Assistance policy that considers nutrition in emergencies and humanitarian contexts. Regarding action within the EU, in accordance with the Treaties, the primary responsibility for health issues lies with the Member States, not with the European institutions. Addressing child health is, therefore, a matter for Member State authorities. Nevertheless, the Commission is supporting Member States through expert groups to identify why different countries in the EU have different child mortality rates. Expert groups were established to exchange information and to identify gaps where more can be done. The Europeristat expert group published in December 2008 a report on perinatal health where this matter is looked into. The report is available in the Europeristat web (www.europeristat.com). The European Commission also published recently a Communication COM(2009)567 final. setting up a framework for the reduction of health inequalities within the EU. Among other fields, the reduction of