list of parts, in line with the recommendations of the CARS 21 high level group on Better Regulation. Amendment 5 Recital 14 (14) The list of parts and equipment, the essential systems concerned as well as the testing and implementation measures should be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2) of this Directive. (14) The list of parts and equipment, the essential systems concerned as well as the testing and implementation measures should be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2) of this Directive. Since those measures are of general scope and are designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive or to supplement it by the addition of new non-essential elements, they should be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC. Justification Reference should be made to the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny laid down in Article 5a of Council Directive 1999/468/EC; as amended by Decision 2006/512/EC. Amendment 6 Recital 17 a (new) (17a) It is equally important that manufa c turers make information rea d ily available to independent operators to ensure the se r vicing and repairing of vehicles in a fully competitive market. These information requirements have so far been incorporated in Community legi s lation, and in particular in the proposal for a regulation on type approval of motor veh i cles with respect to emissions (Euro 5 and 6) and on access to vehicle repair and mai n tenance information ( COM(2005)0683 ), on the basis that the Commi s sion will review, no later than four years after the date of entry into force of that Regulation , the effe c tiveness of these articles and may cons e quently consider whether it would be a p propriate to consolidate all provisions go v erning access to vehicle repair and mai n tenance information within this Dire c tive. Justification This amendment aims at making Recital 17a (new) consistent with the wording in the Euro 5 Regulation. Amendment 7 Recital 18 (18) With the aim of simplifying and accelerating the procedure, measures implementing the separate directives or regulations as well as measures for adapting the Annexes to this Directive and the separate directives or regulations, in particular to the development of scientific and technical knowledge should be adopted in accordance with Decision 1999/468/EC. (18) With the aim of simplifying and accelerating the procedure, measures implementing the separate directives or regulations as well as measures for adapting the Annexes to this Directive and the separate directives or regulations, in particular to the development of scientific and technical knowledge should be adopted in accordance with Decision 1999/468/EC. Since those measures are of general scope and are designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive or of the separate directives or regulations, or to supplement them by the addition of new non-essential elements, they should be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC. The same procedure should apply to adaptations