Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (21 January 2009) The Commission is aware of the situation in the City of Ankleshwar in the State of Gujarats. The City of Ankleshwar has developed an Action Plan to tackle the situation, but the Commission is not aware how much progress has been made to date. The Commission has regular bilateral meetings with Indian authorities and discusses approaches to environmental protection. Air pollution is one of the five themes (the others are waste, water, chemicals, climate change), which are being addressed by the Indian Government and the European Union as part of the implementation of the 2005 India‑EU Joint Action Plan. In this context, the Commission is aware that India follows the EU vehicle emissions standards with some delays. Currently, Euro 2 standards are in force nationwide, but Euro 3 standards are proposed as obligatory standards for 11 cities, including New Delhi. Nationwide, Euro 3 standards may be put in place in 2010. Furthermore, within the framework of the action plan Support Facility — the financial mechanism supporting the implementation of the environment and energy component of the India‑EU Joint Action Plan — the Commission supports a team of consultants and experts to share the EU experience on air quality management and implementation, including emission standards and integrated pollution prevention and control, and to advise the Government of India on related policy reform. At the EU‑India Summit which took place on the 29 September 2008 in Marseille, leaders of the EU and India adopted a comprehensive Joint Work Programme on Climate Change, Clean Development and Energy which seeks to establish a key policy instrument to promote further cooperation between the EU and India in the relevant fields of energy, environment and research in order to tackle jointly climate change. Furthermore, the Commission is funding a key initiative which is aimed at establishing a European Business and Technology Center in India which will seek to promote industrial and research cooperation between the EU and India, with a particular focus on promoting clean and sustainable technologies, based on Europe's lead in key sectors such as Energy, Transport, Environment and Bio‑Tech.