WRITTEN QUESTION E-4356/05 by Bart Staes (Verts/ALE) , Margrete Auken (Verts/ALE) , Marie Isler Béguin (Verts/ALE) , Sepp Kusstatscher (Verts/ALE) , Paulo Casaca (PSE) , Dorette Corbey (PSE) , Robert Evans (PSE) , Wolfgang Kreissl-Dörfler (PSE) , Karin Scheele (PSE) , Caroline Jackson (PPE‑DE) , Péter Olajos (PPE‑DE) , Neil Parish (PPE‑DE) , John Bowis (PPE‑DE) and Jonas Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (22 November 2005) Subject: Objective, scientific information on illegal hunting in Malta Although the Commission admits that it is ‘aware’ of illegal hunting activities in Malta, it states in its answer to Written Questions E‑2396/05 to E‑2406/05 that there is a lack of ‘objective scientific information’ on this matter. During a debate at the meeting of Parliament’s Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety of 14 September 2005, the Commission repeated that it does not have sufficient evidence. 1. Does the Commission recognise that it is almost impossible to find ‘objective scientific information’ on illegal practices, and does it therefore accept that articles in the press as well as birdwatchers’ and official wardens’ reports are satisfactory proof of illegal hunting activities? 2. If the Commission will not accept press and birdwatchers’ reports, what kind of evidence is the Commission actually looking for, and what suggestions could the Commission make with a view to such evidence being gathered in an indisputable way? Does the Commission acknowledge that the Carnet de Chasse, which every hunter is obliged to submit when renewing his or her hunting licence, obviously excludes the protected birds shot yet includes game species that are hardly ever recorded in Malta, such as wild geese? 3. The burden of proof lies with the Commission. Has the Commission already taken, as it undertook to do in its answer to Written Questions E‑2396/05 to E‑2406/05, ‘appropriate steps in order to gather further information and to ensure, within the limits conferred on it by the Treaty, compliance with Community law’? What are the results of its activities to date?