Bell", [ "David Gus Bell (born August 27, 1951) is an American former third baseman and manager in Major League Baseball (MLB) currently serving as vice president and assistant general manager for the Chicago White Sox.", " After an 18-year career with four teams, most notably the Cleveland Indians, the Texas Rangers, and the Cincinnati Reds, he managed the Detroit Tigers, Colorado Rockies and Kansas City Royals for three seasons each.", " He was a five-time MLB All-Star and won six consecutive Rawlings Gold Glove Awards from 1979–84.", " He is the son of outfielder Gus Bell and the father of third basemen David and Mike." ] ], [ "List of St. Louis Cardinals managers", [ "The St. Louis Cardinals, a professional baseball franchise based in St. Louis, Missouri, compete in the National League (NL) of Major League Baseball (MLB).", " Prior to entering the NL in 1892, they were also a member of the American Association (AA) from 1882 to 1891.", " They have won 11 World Series titles as an NL team, one pre-World Series championship and tied another against the NL.", " Since 1900, the team has been known as the Cardinals.", " They were originally named the Perfectos.", " Baseball teams like St. Louis employ a manager to make on-field decisions for the team during the game, similar to the head coach position of other sports.", " A number of coaches report to the manager, including the bench coach, first and third base coaches, and pitching and hitting coaches, among other coaches and instructors.", " Mike Matheny, a former catcher for the Cardinals from 2000 to 2004, has been the manager since 2012.", " He is signed through 2017." ] ], [ "List of St. Louis Cardinals coaches", [ "The St. Louis Cardinals, based in St. Louis, Missouri, are a professional baseball franchise that compete in the National League of Major League Baseball (MLB).", " The club employs coaches who support – and report directly to – the manager.", " Coaches for various aspects of the game, including pitching, hitting, baserunning and fielding, give instruction to players to assist them in exercising the major disciplines that must be successfully executed to compete at the highest level.", " These specialized roles are a relatively new development, as coaches initially did not have specific roles and instead had titles such as \"first assistant\", \"second assistant\", etc.", " St. Louis Cardinals coaches have played an important role in the team's eleven World Series titles.", " Many are retired players who at one time played for the team.", " Coaching is often part of the path for Major League managerial hopefuls, as a coach's previous experiences typically include managing and/or coaching at the minor league level.", " Charley O'Leary and Heinie Peitz, both former Cardinals players, became the first coaches the Cardinals employed as positions separate from the manager in 1913." ] ] ] }