WRITTEN QUESTION E-2958/06 by Elly de Groen-Kouwenhoven (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (4 July 2006) Subject: Bulgarian Sapard programme 1. Does the Commission consider itself adequately informed on the progress of the Bulgarian Sapard programme through participation in the Monitoring Committee, even when this Committee is not provided with information on all monitoring indicators stipulated in the national plan? 2. Does the Commission consider the Bulgarian Sapard Monitoring Committee being provided with information on only a fraction of the monitoring indicators in the national plan- as an institution in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999, laying down the general provisions of Structural Funds? Does the Commission believe that under the Structural Funds regime, the managing authority is obliged to provide information on all monitoring indicators stipulated in the national plan? What guarantees does the Commission have that Bulgarian rural development funding schemes will be in accordance with this regulation after accession? 3. In previous questions on the Bulgarian Sapard programme and the NGO report ‘Far away from Brussels’ the Commission mentioned the mid‑term evaluation report of the Bulgarian Sapard programme. Does the Commission consider it good practice if a managing authority refuses the researchers carrying out the Mid-term evaluation any access to the individual Sapard project files as was done in the mid-term review of the Bulgarian Sapard programme? 4. The NGO report ‘far away from Brussels’ mentions a discrepancy between the average amount of subsidy requested to Sapard and the average amount of subsidy granted. This discrepancy is 23.29 %. Does the Commission share the opinion of the author of the report that this is mainly due to the sanctions imposed on Sapard projects by the Agency, and does the Commission consider a discrepancy of this size as proportionate? 5. When the Bulgarian Sapard measure 2.3 ‘development and diversification of economic activities, provision for multiple activities and alternative income’ was halted by the Bulgarian authorities at the Commission's request, more than 100 pending project requests were still waiting for approval. Does the Commission consider it good practice if these projects are kept waiting for a period longer than a year and rural development is halted, even though the Sapard rules of procedure prescribe that these projects are to be given an answer from the Agency within three months? 6. Is the Commission aware of the fact that Krassimir Nedelchev, deputy director of the state agriculture fund and head of the Sapard Agency, was arrested in May 2006 over charges of taking bribes and that the prosecutor in this case, Bozhidar Dzhambazov, believes that evidence against Mr Nedelchev has disappeared? 7. Does the Commission still believe that there is no reason for an investigation into possible misuse of EU funds by the Bulgarian Sapard Agency?