WRITTEN QUESTION E-0929/07 by Thomas Ulmer (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (26 February 2007) Subject: National park in French Guiana The French Government is evidently thinking of establishing a national park in French Guiana. Scientists such as Francis Hallé were therefore hoping to see such a park set up in the central and northern part of French Guiana, which essentially consists of uninhabited forest covering an area of 50 000 square kilometres. However, increasing numbers of illegal goldmining camps are springing up in this part of French Guiana, turning the area into a new ‘Wild West’. Fearing confrontation with the goldminers, France has now moved the site of the proposed national park to the south, right to the heart of the Indian reservation established in 1970. The reservation was set up to protect the native peoples against the impact of tourism, which destroys their culture and brings diseases to which they have no resistance. There would, therefore, be a real risk of them dying out. In addition, the tropical environment, which the native peoples have been shown to care for, is likely to be seriously damaged. If it were to establish the national park in the south of French Guiana, France would also be in breach of UN Resolution 47/135, which stipulates the following: ‘States shall protect the existence and the national or ethnic, cultural, religious and linguistic identity of minorities within their respective territories and shall encourage conditions for the promotion of that identity’ (Article 1); ‘National policies and programmes shall be planned and implemented with due regard for the legitimate interests of persons belonging to minorities’ (Article 5); ‘States should cooperate in order to promote respect for the rights set forth in the present Declaration’ (Article 7). 1. Is the Commission fully aware of this problem? 2. What action does the Commission plan to take to persuade France to abandon the national park project? 3. The EU contributes 71 % of French Guiana’s budget. Is there any provision for cutting funding with a view to preventing adverse developments?