9 January 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Diana Wallis, Joan Vallvé and Paavo Väyrynen on behalf of the ELDR Group Heidi Anneli Hautala, Per Gahrton, Elisabeth Schroedter and Bart Staes on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group on the Northern Dimension Action Plan European Parliament resolution on the Northern Dimension Action Plan The European Parliament, – having regard to the conclusions of the chairman of the Conference on the Northern Dimension and the Arctic Window (Ilulissat, Greenland, 28 August 2002) and the Presidency Conclusions on the Future of the Northern Dimension Policies of the European Union (Luxembourg, 21 October 2002), – having regard to the conclusions of the Arctic Parliamentarians' Meeting (Tromsö, Norway, 12 August 2002), – having regard to the conclusions of the Arctic Council Ministerial Meeting (Saariselkä, Finland, 10 October 2002), – having regard to the joint statements of the EU-Russia Summit (Brussels, 11 November 2002), A. whereas the Northern Dimension is an essential policy area of the EU, both externally and internally, B. whereas the Commission is preparing a 2004-2006 Northern Dimension Action Plan, C. whereas the enlargement of the EU is creating new opportunities and challenges for the northern regions of Europe, and whereas the enlargement necessitates reviewing the approach to the Northern Dimension, given that several ND partner countries will become members of the EU, D. whereas such countries as Belarus and Ukraine are now becoming neighbouring countries to the EU and whereas there will be four new EU countries bordering the Russian Federation, E. whereas these new border regions have a great human and economic potential, F. whereas in the northern and arctic regions the effects of the global climate change might be dramatic, G. whereas the Baltic Sea will be almost exclusively surrounded by EU Member States, and whereas increasing oil transport in the region raises serious environmental concerns, H. whereas the EU is one of the actors with a significant role to play in the development of the Northern Dimension policy; whereas these actors should improve the coordination of their activities, I. whereas the Luxembourg Council (9 April 2001) decided to set up a Northern Dimension Forum, and whereas this decision still remains to be implemented, 1. Welcomes the approach presented in Council's guidelines for a new action plan; expresses its gratitude for the work the Danish presidency has done for the Northern Dimension; 2. Emphasises the need to involve elected representatives at all levels in the preparation of the Action Plan and in the process of political implementation; 3. Urges the Commission to address the following points in the 2004-2006 Northern Dimension Action Plan: 3.1. Ensuring that the EU enlargement does not create new barriers for cooperation and mobility; 3.2. Adapting the general approach to the changing situation where partner countries become members in the EU; noting the specific needs this creates for regional development and cross-border cooperation; adapting the INTERREG II programme to the new situation; 3.3. Making sustainable development the keystone of the Northern Dimension; 3.4. Paying