21 December 2007; – having regard to the Fourth Council Directive 78/660/EEC of 25 July 1978 based on Article 54(3)(g) of the Treaty on the annual accounts of certain types of companies OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11. and Seventh Council Directive 83/349/EEC of 13 June 1983 based on Article 54(3)(g) of the Treaty on consolidated accounts OJ L 193, 18.7.1983, p. 1. (Fourth and Seventh Company Law Directives), - having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, - having regard to the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs ( A6-0032/2008 ), A. whereas the European Union, since taking on IFRS, has gained insight and expertise that must be used when discussing the further development of the IASCF/IASB; whereas jurisdictions which have not abandoned their own accounting standards but have merely embarked on convergence processes may not have the same expertise and experience, B. whereas the 17 months which elapsed before the appointment of the new chairperson of the IASCF lead one to wonder about the effectiveness of the current selection and appointment process for members of that body, C. whereas the European Union should move from a reactive to a proactive attitude in its relations with the IASCF/IASB, D. whereas the sub-prime crisis of summer 2007 highlighted the importance of accounting standards, and in particular the notions of ‘fair value’ and 'market-to-market’, for financial stability, Transparent, responsible international organisations 1. Is firmly convinced that the aim must be to develop high-quality global accounting standards; 2. Notes that the IASCF is a private self-regulatory body which has been given the role of lawmaker for the EU by Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002; underlines that the IASCF/IASB lack transparency, legitimacy, accountability and are not under the control of any democratically elected parliament or government, without the EU institutions having established the accompanying procedures and practices of consultation and democratic decision-making that are usual in its own legislative procedures; welcomes, however, that the IASCF/IASB have sought to improve these deficiencies, for example through twice-yearly meetings at which the IASCF reviews the IASB's work, through impact assessments for new standards, through the introduction of formalised feedback statements for comments received in public consultations, etc.; 3. Considers that, lacking satisfactory solutions to the set up and oversight of the IASCF/IASB, a debate should be launched on the conditions for integrating the IASCF/IASB into the system of international governance e.g. the International Monetary Fund, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (, the World Bank; 4. Stresses the need for more representatives with a European background within the international standard-setting bodies, in order to legitimate a truly international approach and to meet the need for a balanced consideration of the weight of the Community, constituting as it does by far the largest economic area and the area with the most entities applying IFRS; believes that all trustees of the IASB should come from nations that have signed up, or intend to sign up, to IFRS; 5. Notes the increasingly theoretical dimension of IASB projects,