of Cyprus into the EU, but this, he said, had led us into a trap. With a radical change on the Turkish side, the guaranteed accession of Greek Cyprus had led to the present position. The UN plan reflected neither all of the Greek Cypriot view or the Turkish Cypriot view. It was an attempt to remove the last barbed wire border from the EU. Things could always be better, but the Greek Cypriot government's arguments were sophistry. The citizens in the north should not be held hostage by the south. If there is a no vote in the south and a yes in the north, he said, we should fight for the opening of political relations with the north and the lifting of the embargo. There were no other possible solutions. Koenraad DILLEN (IND, B) described as " criminal negligence " the decision in Helsinki to leave open the option of Turkish membership without withdrawal of troops from Cyprus. He understood the objections of the Greek Cypriots to the continuing military occupation, the presence of 100 000 Turkish settlers and the limits of freedom of movement. He concluded by saying that Islamic Turkey should never join the EU. Chris DAVIES (ELDR, North West) said the good faith of Commissioner Verheugen had been betrayed by the Greek Cypriot government. The entire island would join the EU in May, but the new Turkish Cypriot citizens would be unrecognised and unrepresented, kept in poverty by economic sanctions. They feel threatened both by the Turkish settlers and the economic power of the Greek Cypriot side. If the north votes 'Yes' then they will have done everything we asked of them, and sanctions should be lifted, transport and trade developed - without delay. Baroness Sarah LUDFORD (ELDR, London) recalled that in 1999, her position was that accession to the EU would not be possible without reunification. The EU, through diplomacy, had shown the Turkish Cypriots what potential reunification could offer. The EU had let down the Greek Cypriots in recent years she said, but a yes vote from the north and a no from the south would mean that the status quo could no longer endure. She also called on some of the restrictions on the Turkish Cypriots to be lifted including the obligation of Greek mother tongue for Cypriots wanting to work in the EU institutions. Charles TANNOCK (EPP-ED, London) welcomed this opportunity for peaceful reunification. However, pointing out that he represented many Cypriots in his London constituency he stated that there were not sufficient guarantees on how the Turkish Cypriots would implement the agreement. He also said that the draft agreement could possibly reward the aggressor contrary to the Geneva Conventions. Mr Tannock did not want to put outside pressure on the vote and said he would support the outcome whatever it may be. Responding to the debate for the Council, Dick Roche emphasised that, coming from Ireland, he understood the problems of historic, generations-long conflict. In such circumstances, there were rare opportunities to resolve the problems, and this was one such opportunity. He