of its Conclusions, that a genuine common policy on asylum and immigration implied the establishment of common standards on procedures for asylum, reception and family reunification and called on the Commission to present a new amended proposal. Amendment 9 Recital 7a (new) (7a) The Council should adopt as rapidly as possible the proposal, submitted by the Commission on 12 September 2001, for a Council directive on minimum standards for the qualification and status of third-country nationals and stateless persons as refugees or as persons who otherwise need international protection (1) . ____________ (1) OJ C 51 E, 26.2.2002, p. 325. Amendment 10 Recital 11 (11) Family reunification applies to members of the nuclear family, that is to say the spouse and the minor children. It is for States to decide whether they wish to extend this category and authorise family reunification for relatives in the ascending line, children who are of full age and unmarried partners. (11) Family reunification applies to members of the nuclear family, that is to say the spouse, and the minor children. Registered or unmarried partners, irrespective of sex, should be eligible for family reunification, where the legislation or practice of the Member State concerned treats unmarried and registered partners in a corresponding manner to married couples. It is for the Member States to decide whether they wish to extend this category and authorise family reunification for relatives in the ascending line and for children who are of full age. Amendment 11 Recital 11a (new) (11a) Family reunification should also apply to children of full age and to relatives in the ascending line where such persons have no other means of family support in the country of origin and are objectively unable to provide for their own needs on account of their state of health. Amendment 12 Recital 12 (12) A set of rules governing the procedure for examination of applications for family reunification and for entry and residence of family members should be laid down. Those procedures should be effective and manageable, taking account of the normal workload of the Member States' administrations, as well as transparent and fair, in order to offer appropriate legal certainty to those concerned. (12) A set of rules governing the procedure for examination of applications for family reunification and for entry and residence of family members should be laid down. Those procedures should be effective as well as transparent and fair, in order to offer appropriate legal certainty to those concerned. Amendment 13 Recital 15 (15) In accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty, the objectives of the proposed action, namely the establishment of a right to family reunification for third-country nationals to be exercised in accordance with common rules, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale and impact of the action, be better achieved by the Community. This Directive confines itself to the minimum required to achieve those objectives and does not go beyond what is necessary for that purpose. (15)