Answer given by Mr Hahn on behalf of the Commission (8 December 2010) The Commission attaches high importance to the achievement of better economic, social and territorial cohesion in Europe, including for the territories mentioned in Article 174 of the Treaty on the Functioning of European Union (TFEU), which, with their considerable diversity caused by their geographical specificities clearly constitute a particular challenge for regional policy. However, geographical specificity in itself does not necessarily constitute a problem. Statistics suggest that these territories are far from being homogeneous in socioeconomic terms. Therefore, a one-size-fits-all approach (e.g. a general island and/or mountain policy) is not appropriate. The challenge is rather to strengthen the support from all relevant EU policies, allowing these territories to make value from their potential and to limit the effects of their constraints. Cohesion policy already provides many possibilities for supporting and strengthening the development of these areas. Furthermore, Member States and regions may adapt to the particular socioeconomic and territorial characteristics of specific territories through other means, such as particular territorial provisions in programmes. Other EU policies also offer possibilities for specific territories. For example, State aid rules allow the granting of aid to promote the economic development of certain areas. This concerns — amongst others — islands, mountains and low density regions provided that they meet certain conditions. Taking into account the provisions of Article 174 TFEU the Commission has given the discussions on the future cohesion policy a further impetus through the publication of the 5th Cohesion Report on 10 November 2010. As described in this report, geographical or demographic features could, in some cases, intensify development problems. As this seems to be particularly true for the areas mentioned in Article 174 TFEU, the Commission argues that ‘It will be necessary to develop targeted provisions to reflect these specificities’. In this context the Commission also poses the question ‘How cohesion policy can take better account (i.a.) of territories with particular geographical features in development processes?’ Additionally, the Commission proposes to examine whether the regulatory architecture of cohesion policy should allow greater flexibility in organising programmes in order to better reflect the nature and geography of development processes. The public consultation on the 5th Cohesion Report is open until 31 January 2011. The Commission expects a strong participation in this process. It is clear that a strategy for the future cohesion policy will only result from extensive discussions among Member States, the European institutions and relevant stakeholders, which will undoubtedly take into account the new place given to territorial cohesion in Article 174 TFEU.