fairly and professionally and in a manner which promotes the integrity of the market. 2. Member States shall require investment firms to keep at the disposal of the competent authority, for at least five years, the relevant data relating to all transactions in financial instruments which they have carried out, whether on own account or on behalf of a client. In the case of transactions carried out on behalf of clients, the records shall contain all the information and details of the identity of the client, and the information required under Council Directive 91/308/EEC OJ L 166, 28.6.1991, p. 77. . 3. Member States shall require investment firms which execute transactions in any financial instruments admitted to trading on a regulated market to report details of such transactions to the competent authority in the home Member State of the investment firm. This obligation shall apply whether or not such transactions were carried out on a regulated market. 4. Those reports shall be transmitted as quickly as possible, and no later than the close of the following working day. The reports shall specify the instrument bought/sold, the quantity, the date and time of execution, and transaction prices. They shall identify the party executing the transaction and indicate the market, trading system or other means through which the transaction was concluded. 5. Member States shall provide that the reports are to be made to the competent authority either by the investment firm, a third party acting on its behalf or by the operator of the regulated market or MTF through whose systems the transaction was completed or by a trade-matching or reporting system approved by the competent authority . In cases where transactions on a regulated market or MTF are reported directly to the competent authority by the regulated market or MTF, or where the transactions are reported directly to the competent authority by a trade-matching or reporting system approved by the competent authority, the obligation on the investment firm laid down in paragraph 3 may be waived. 6. In order to ensure that measures for the protection of market integrity are modified to take account of technical developments in financial markets, and to ensure the uniform application of paragraphs 1 to 5, the Commission may adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), implementing measures which clarify the methods and arrangements for reporting financial transactions, the form and content of these reports, as well as arrangements for communicating them to the competent authorities of other Member States, having particular regard to the expenses incurred by any adjustment of existing reporting systems . 7. The competent authority of the home Member State shall ensure that the obligations of this provision and the implementing measures adopted under paragraph 6 are complied with by investment firms when providing services in other Member States. The competent authority of the Member State in which a branch is located shall enforce the obligations of this provision and any implementing measures adopted under paragraph 6 in respect of the services provided by a branch to its clients.