Centre (Belgium, Czech Republic, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Hungary, Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, United Kingdom) and South (Bulgaria, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Cyprus, Malta, Portugal). Harmful substances banned Most active substances will receive EU approval initially for 10 years, though low-risk substances would receive a 15 year approval (in both cases renewable for 15 years). Certain highly toxic chemicals, namely those which are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction, will be banned unless exposure to them would in practice be negligible. The same applies to substances which are endocrine-disrupting, those which are persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic (PBT) and those which are very persistent and very bioaccumulative (vPvB). For developmental neurotoxic or immunotoxic substances, higher safety standards may be required. Substances likely to be harmful to honeybees will also be outlawed. However, if a substance is needed to combat a serious danger to plant health, it may be approved for up to five years (with five-year renewals) even if it does not meet the above safety criteria relating to human health. Moreover, products containing certain hazardous substances ("candidates for substitution") are to be replaced if safer alternatives are shown to exist. MEPs successfully demanded a shorter deadline for their replacement, of three years rather than five. A gradual process Contrary to certain fears, the new legislation will only gradually supersede existing EU law. Pesticides which can be placed on the market under current legislation will remain available until their existing authorisation expires. There will thus be no sudden or large-scale withdrawal of products from the market. Any substances already approved under the 1991 directive will remain legal until their approval period (10 years) expires. For example, substances approved in 2006 can remain on the market until 2016. Only then must they undergo the new authorisation procedure and only at that point might they be banned. There should thus be ample time for farmers to adapt by using alternatives or non-chemical methods or for the pesticides industry to devise replacements. How many substances will be banned? To place matters in perspective, when the existing EU directive took effect in 1991, over 800 active substances were used in pesticides. As a result of that legislation, the number has already been whittled down by around 50% without causing major problems to users. The new regulation is expected to remove only a small number of further substances from use, namely the worst remaining ones. Estimates vary as to how many this will be, but rapporteur Hiltrud Breyer believes a study by the Swedish Chemicals Agency KEMI, which was used as a basis for the compromise with the Council, gives the most realistic estimate available, with a figure of 22 existing substances likely to be outlawed eventually. No loophole for imports Fears have also been voiced that food imported into the EU could evade the new rules. However, food imports are already checked by the EU for pesticide residue levels. It is not in the interest of importers to risk falling foul of such inspections. Using pesticides in forests, farms and parks: everyday practice The second phase