a binding obligation on Member States to draft a detailed correlation table when transposing directives. Parliament should systematically table an amendment to that effect where it has the power to do so. 36. The committee is of the opinion that the systematic availability of correlation tables would ease the Commission’s monitoring task, which in certain cases is unduly complicated by the absence of an Ariadne’s thread to guide it through implementing legislation. The committee considers, furthermore, that the systematic availability of correlation tables would convince Member States' parliaments to play a more active role in the monitoring of the implementation of Community law and would help them in scrutinising their governments and holding them accountable. 37. The committee believes that fragmentary transposition, that is the practice of transposing directives through multiple acts of varying hierarchy or through existing national legal concepts, should be avoided if possible by Member States, as that practice does not help the monitoring of implementation or increase transparency for EU citizens. Such a conclusion is all the more compelling in the absence of correlation tables. 38. The committee recommends that, where possible, and in circumstances where Parliament’s prerogatives with regard to co-decision can be exercised, regulations - and not directives - are chosen as the standard legal form to legislate on particularly sensitive issues and/or where pan-EU consistency is a requisite, in order better to achieve the legislator's aims. This applies particularly to legislation where transposition errors, inconsistencies or delays might substantially threaten the protection of EU consumers or cause substantial disruptions in the internal market. 39. The committee believes that traditional enforcement mechanisms based on infringement proceedings led by the Commission are necessary but by no means sufficient in light of the growing number of EC and Member States measures. The committee strongly recommends that they be complemented by more sophisticated cooperation mechanisms with domestic authorities and a stronger emphasis on capacity building. In this context, the committee supports the Lamfalussy Process for banking, securities and insurance legislation as an example to follow. Its multilevel governance arrangements replace more traditional top-down forms of policymaking and enforcement, encouraging cooperation among national regulators and supervisors. The committee notes, nevertheless, that Parliament's prerogatives need to be adequately safeguarded when such procedures are laid down and implemented. 40. The committee demands further measures, on the part of the Commission and especially the Member States, to solve linguistic and other problems encountered in the implementation of EC legislation. 41. The committee strongly requests that the Commission be given more resources and staff (particularly lawyer-linguists) in order for the quality of transposition monitoring to be improved. Moreover, the committee calls on Parliament to follow through with this commitment and to support the Commission via increased budget appropriations for this specific task. 42. The committee believes that the Commission should take a more proactive stance when monitoring national events, in particular when they are related to crucial EC directives. The Commission should closely follow the national media and be in close contact with the relevant stakeholders, in order to detect in time any potential