on Directorate-General (DG) Agriculture’s website http://europa.eu.int/comm/agriculture/eval/index_en.htm#rep2 . For the current programming period, it is too early to make an overall assessment. Specific information on the development of the social and economic structure of rural areas in Austria can be consulted in the evaluation reports for the programmes Leader II and 5b http://dokumente.oerok.gv.at . 3. A graphic and a table are sent direct to the Honourable Member and to Parliament’s Secretariat, containing the required information The definition which has been used to define farmer’s income is the farm net value added per annual working unit (income = output + subsidies – intermediate consumption – taxes – depreciation). The data until 2001 are presently available for all (EU-15) Member States. The time period used was therefore 1992—2001. The 10 New Member States will start delivering their data from 2004 onwards . The population was divided in 10 quintiles, 1 being the class with the highest income and 10 with the lowest income, as requested. However, for the quintile 10 it must be stressed that the results are influenced greatly by a relatively small number of large farms which made a loss in the period. 4. The Commission has identified in its proposal for a new Council Regulation on Rural Development COM (2004) 490 final several economic and social challenges that will need to be addressed by its future policy such as higher unemployment in rural areas. Therefore three major priorities have been set for the next programming period around which the policy will be structured: increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, enhancing the environment and countryside and enhancing the quality of life and promoting the diversification of economic activities. The proposal is currently under discussion in the Council’s working group. Moreover, the proposal for a new Council Regulation on the European Regional Development Fund COM (2004) 495 final underlines that the intervention of this fund in rural areas should be concentrated on the economic diversification: infrastructures to improve accessibility, acceleration of the rolling-out of telecommunication networks and services in rural areas, development of new economic activities outside the agricultural sector, reinforcement of links between urban and rural areas, development of tourism and rural amenities.