general rules. ( 43 ) Appropriate information on all essential aspects of cross-border healthcare is necessary in order to enable patients to exercise their rights to cross-border healthcare in practice. For cross-border healthcare the most efficient mechanism for providing such information is to establish central contact points within each Member State to which patients can refer, and which can provide information on cross-border healthcare taking into account also the context of the health system in that Member State. Since questions about aspects of cross-border healthcare will also require liaison between authorities in different Member States, those central contact points should also constitute a network through which such questions can be most efficiently addressed. Those contact points should cooperate with each other and should enable patients to make informed choices about cross border healthcare . They should also provide information about options available in case of problems with cross-border healthcare, in particular about out of court schemes for settling cross border disputes. In developing arrangements for the provision of information on cross-border healthcare, the Member States should give consideration to the need to provide information in accessible formats and to potential sources of additional assistance for vulnerable patients, disabled people and people with complex needs. ( 44 ) When healthcare is received by a patient in a Member State , which is not the Member State where he is insured, it is essential for the patient to know in advance which rules shall be applicable. An equivalent level of clarity is needed ▌when healthcare is provided cross-border , such as telemedicine . In those cases, the rules applicable to healthcare are those provided by the legislation of the Member State of treatment in accordance with the general principles set out in Article 5 of this Directive , given that in accordance with Article 152(5) of the Treaty the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care is of responsibility of Member States. This will help the patient to make an informed choice, and will avoid misapprehension and misunderstanding. It will also establish a high level of trust between the patient and the healthcare provider. ( 45 ) The Member States should decide on the form of the national contact points as well as the number of them. The national contact points may be also incorporated into or build on activities of existing information centres provided that it is clearly indicated that they are also national contact points for cross-border healthcare. The national contact points should have appropriate facilities for the provision of information on the main aspects of cross-border healthcare and for the provision of practical assistance to patients if needed. The Member States should ensure the participation of bodies representing health professionals in these activities. The existence of national contact points should not preclude Member States from establishing other linked contact points at regional or local level, reflecting the specific organisation of their healthcare system. The national contact points should be able to provide patients with relevant information on cross-border healthcare and to assist them. This should not include legal advice.