Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (13 January 2005) The Commission is aware of the legislation adopted by the Greek authorities in respect of the charter of aircraft to which the Honourable Member refers, this measure forms part of the ongoing restructuring of Olympic which is itself the subject of an ongoing investigation by the Commission under the State aid rules. The Commission has requested clarifications from the Greek authorities on this particular measure. The Commission investigation has to be seen against the background of ongoing action taken by the Commission in respect of Olympic. On 11 December 2002 the Commission took a final negative decision with a request for recovery of aid. At that time the recovery order concerned a sum of aid totalling about €190 million. On 8 September 2003 the Commission became aware of the plans of the Greek authorities to restructure and privatise Olympic and issued an injunction for information. On 3 October 2003 the Commission took an action before the European Court of Justice against Greece for failure to carry out the decision of December 2002. On 16 March 2004, the Commission decided to open an investigation procedure under Article 88(2) against Greece concerning Olympic Airways. The Commission expressed doubts about the arrangements for setting up and privatising a new company to be known as Olympic Airlines (which took over the aviation activities of Olympic Airways) and intends to ensure that no State aid is involved. The Commission will assess whether a number of measures taken in respect of Olympic Airways/Olympic Airlines constitute State aid, and in particular the non-payment of tax debt in 2003; the provision of an advance by the Greek State to fund the restructuring and privatisation of the company and the non-payment of the airport modernisation tax (Spatosimo) charged to passengers. It might be in the context of this change of legal structure (new company) that the Greek authorities have adopted the legislation concerning the charter of aircraft referred to by the Honourable Member. It will be considered in the context of the ongoing investigation.