as defined in Article 148(2) of the Treaty, during the full revision of the guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States, which is scheduled to take place in 2014; 5. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council, the Commission and the national parliaments. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Following the assessment of preliminary National Reform Programmes (NRPs) presented by the Member States under the Europe 2020 strategy, and in parallel with the presentation of the first Annual Growth Survey, the Commission adopted on 12 January a proposal for a Council decision suggesting to confirm the validity, for 2011, of the integrated economic policy and employment guidelines of the Member States adopted in 2010 Council Decision 2010/707/EU of 21 October 2010 on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States (OJ L 308, 24.11.2010, p. 46) . This proposal takes account of the fact that the new Europe 2020 integrated guidelines are to be fully transposed into the policy measures and sequencing of the reforms of the Member States to be presented in the final NRPs due in April 2011. Furthermore, the Commission's proposal is based on the commitment included in the Employment Guidelines of 2010 to keep the guidelines stable, as far as possible, until 2014 so that the Member States can focus on their implementation. The proposal for a Council decision is based on Article 148 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) which requires the Council to draw up guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States each year. Before adopting a decision on the guidelines, the TFEU provides for the Council to consult the European Parliament, as well as the Employment Committee, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. The Council addressed a consultation request to the Parliament on 26 January 2011. The integrated economic and employment policy guidelines as adopted in 2010 consist of Broad Economic Policy Guidelines, based on Article 121 TFEU, and Employment Guidelines based on Article 148 TFEU. These two legal acts were adopted as distinct yet interlinked instruments, forming together a package of integrated guidelines. The European Parliament discussed the proposal for Employment Guidelines and, on 8 September 2010, adopted a legislative resolution including a number of amendments (Öry Report). Your Rapporteur can understand the aim to maintain the Employment Guidelines stable until the midterm review of the Europe 2020 strategy. Your Rapporteur, however, wishes to stress the importance of keeping the integrated economic policy and employment guidelines in the main focus of the annual review of the Europe 2020 strategy. The Commission and the Council have to ensure that the integrated guidelines are the red thread of the European Semester. Should the key messages of the annual growth survey depart from the content of the guidelines, these should consequently be amended to ensure consistency. Finally, your Rapporteur reiterates the Parliament's calls for effective governance of the employment and social policies by the Member States, which has to include involvement of stakeholders, including the social partners and parliamentary bodies in the