membership of the Joint Undertaking. This amendment seeks to insert one condition, i.e. an agreement with the EC. Amendment 39 Annex, Article 1, paragraph 3 3. Any request for accession pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be addressed to the Executive Director, who shall transmit it to the Administrative Board. 3. Any request for accession pursuant to paragraph 2 shall be addressed to the Executive Director, who shall transmit it to the Administrative Board. The Administrative Board shall decide whether to accept or reject the request. If the request is accepted, the Executive Director shall negotiate the conditions of accession and submit them to the Administrative Board. These conditions may include, in particular, provisions relating to the financial contributions and representation within the Administrative Board. The Administrative Board shall advise the Commission whether to accept or reject the request and the Commission, pursuant to the procedure set out in Article 5a, shall make a proposal to that effect. If the request is accepted, the Executive Director shall negotiate the conditions of accession and submit them to the Administrative Board. These conditions may include, in particular, provisions relating to the financial contributions and representation within the Administrative Board. Justification This is a necessary clarification deriving from the Regulation's new Article 5a (new) on the accession of new members. The procedure should be stated clearly, allowing no misinterpretation or creation of precedent. The EU Institutions are responsible for such questions, not its Joint Undertaking of a PPP nature, such as the SESAR. Amendment 40 Annex, Article 1, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. In proposing whether to authorise negotiations on accession with a public or private undertaking or body, given the agreement referred to in the third indent of Article 1 (2) of the Annex, the Administrative Board shall take particular account of the following criteria: - documented knowledge and experience with air traffic management and/or with the manufacture of equipment and/or the provision of services for air traffic management; - the contribution that the undertaking or body can be expected to give to the execution of the ATM Master Plan; - the financial security of the undertaking or body; - any potential conflict of interests. Justification This is a follow up to the essential condition referred to in amendment to Art. 1(2), sub-paragraph 1a (new). It further clarifies the criteria and procedure. The Council's working group has agreed on a similar text. And this amendment should be considered in conjunction with the amendment to Article 5a (new). Amendment 41 Annex, Article 3, paragraph 1, point (a a) (new) (aa) a representative of the military; Justification The representatives of the industry should be nominated by the relevant representative organisations at the European level. The representative of the Military should be nominated by the relevant representative organisation dealing with ATM at the European level. Amendment 42 Annex, Article 3, paragraph 2 2. The representatives referred to in points (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph 1 are designated by the Industry Consultation Body, set up in accordance with Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 549/2004. 2.