of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The possibility of choosing the law applicable to divorce and legal separation or to the dissolution of a registered partnership should not harm the superior interests of the child. In particular, when the divorce or the separation involves any children of the spouses, the law applicable to the divorce and legal separation can take into consideration the principles laid down in Article 24 of the Charter, placing emphasis on the best interests of the children, the duty to hear their opinion in decisions which concern them and the right to maintain regular personal relations and direct contact with both parents, unless it is against their interest to do so. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) Before designating the applicable law, it is important for spouses to have access to up-to-date information concerning the essential aspects of national and Union law and of the procedures governing divorce and legal separation. To guarantee such access to appropriate, good-quality information, the Commission regularly updates it in the Internet-based public information system set up by Council Decision 2001/470/EC. (15) Before designating the applicable law, it is important for spouses or registered partners to have access to up-to-date information concerning the essential aspects of national and Union law and of the procedures governing divorce and legal separation and the dissolution of a registered partnership, including the option of mediation . Spouses should be informed about the different forms of divorce and the conditions for obtaining a divorce that exist in the laws of the Member States concerned. To guarantee such access to appropriate, good-quality information, the Commission regularly updates it in the Internet-based public information system set up by Council Decision 2001/470/EC , while the Member State in which the divorce proceedings take place should make available to the spouses all the information they need . Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (16) The informed choice of the two spouses is a basic principle of this Regulation. Each spouse should know exactly what are the legal and social implications of the choice of applicable law. The possibility of choosing the applicable law by common agreement should be without prejudice to the rights of, and equal opportunities for, the two spouses. Hence judges in the Member States should be aware of the importance of an informed choice on the part of the two spouses concerning the legal implications of the choice-of-law agreement concluded. (16) The informed choice of the two spouses or registered partners is a basic principle of this Regulation. Each spouse /registered partner should know exactly what are the legal and social implications of the choice of applicable law. The possibility of choosing the applicable law by common agreement should be without prejudice to the rights of, and equal opportunities for, the two spouses or registered partners . Hence judges in the Member States should be aware of the importance of an informed choice on the part of the two spouses /registered