Answer given by Mr Cioloş on behalf of the Commission (12 July 2011) The vitality and potential of many rural areas remain closely linked to the presence of a competitive and dynamic farming sector. The role of agriculture can be particularly important, not only directly but also indirectly — through the generation of additional economic activities and the employment opportunities this yields, with especially strong linkages with food processing, tourism and trade. The Commission is currently analysing these issues in the framework of the preparatory work for the forthcoming legal proposals and impact assessment on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) to be presented during the second semester of 2011. The aim of the future CAP is to enhance growth and employment in rural areas and thereby contribute to inclusive growth and to the Europe 2020 strategy in general. As stated in the communication, the three objectives for reform will be viable food production, sustainable management of natural resources and balanced territorial development. Employment is an important element in all of these objectives, and in particular present in the third one of them. As far as instruments, a better balance of direct support to farmers as well as a better targeting of aid would improve farmers' income and lead to more balanced farm activities throughout all of the EU territory. Moreover, measures such as specific support for areas with natural handicap and coupled support can have particular social benefits in the most fragile areas. Rural development measures promote competitiveness of the agriculture and forestry sectors, the delivery of public goods and the diversification of economic activity and quality of life in rural areas and are thereby also enhancing growth and employment. The Commission solicited input from all interested parties, including representatives of workers, to complete the diagnosis and exploration of the options for reform. Stakeholders have been consulted through a wider public debate (April-June 2010), an interinstitutional debate on the communication, a stakeholders' conference in July 2010, two enlarged advisory committees and a public consultation. The summary of the public consultation will be published as part of the impact assessment on the future of the CAP.