Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (1 July 2009) Under the Birds Directive Council Directive 79/409/EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds, OJ L 103, 25.4.1979. , the deliberate capture and killing of Cormorants, disturbance, destruction of their nests or taking of their eggs can only be allowed by Member States if it is in accordance with the derogation system set out in Article 9 of the directive. Member States do not require prior agreement from the Commission before applying the derogations, but must have regard to the conditions set out in Article 9(1) and (2) of the directive. Member States can make full use of the derogations provisions to prevent serious damage by cormorants to fisheries, where this is justified and in the absence of alternative solutions to protect the fisheries. It is for each Member State to take the measures it considers necessary to manage populations and any conflicts that arise in relation to fisheries interests. Apart from the conditions laid down in Article 9, the Birds Directive does not contain provisions restricting the use of the derogations to particular locations or periods of the cormorants' life cycle, as long as the objective of maintaining or adapting the level of populations of cormorants is achieved. On the basis of information provided to the Commission in the context of Member State reports, the derogations system is being widely used in different Member States in order to avoid serious damage from cormorants. Derogations can be used to respond appropriately, either by scaring, shooting or by other means, to the specific cases of localised impact of cormorants in fisheries and fish stocks in certain regions. The Commission is currently considering taking a coordinated action in cooperation with Member States and stakeholders to respond to this issue more efficiently by developing further guidance on the use of the derogations. The Commission intends to explore the results of the international research project Intercafe aimed at reducing the conflict between cormorants and fisheries, when these results become available. Furthermore, the Commission is planning to promote the exchange and dissemination of technical information in particular on mitigation, non-lethal and lethal measures, social and economic issues and data on cormorant populations.