Answer given by Mr Oettinger on behalf of the Commission (4 May 2010) 1. The Commission takes and will continue to take a variety of measures to achieve energy saving. The enhancement of energy efficiency is the main avenue towards energy saving. It is also a cost effective way of fighting against climate change and improving energy security. The Commission promotes energy efficiency by taking measures in areas such as energy end-use services, co-generation of heat and power, the industrial sector, transport and in particular also buildings. The European Energy Efficiency Action Plan of 2006 (COM(2006)545) gives a good overview of the many actions and measures taken by the Commission as well as Member States. Regarding the building sector, the Commission proposed a complete recast of the existing EU legislation on the energy performance of buildings in 2008 (COM(2008)780) final) on which a political agreement was reached in November 2009. The final new legislative text will soon be published. The recast strengthens existing legislation in many aspects and significantly extends the scope as to also cover small-scale renovations and all buildings irrespective of their size. 2. The EU budget does indeed provide funding for the measures mentioned by the Honourable Member. The structural funds are the Commission's most relevant support budget with an amount of EUR 9 billion structural and cohesion policy funds allocated to energy efficiency (and renewable energy sources) projects for the 2007‑13 period. Additional funding possibilities for energy efficiency (and the use of renewable energy sources) in existing housing have been opened by the amendment of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) Regulation in May 2009 Regulation (EC) No 397/2009 of the EP and Council, OJ L 126/3, 21.5.2009. which provides all Member States with the possibility to allocate ERDF resources up to a maximum of 4 % of this Fund to housing. This represents an additional EUR 5 to 8 billion across the EU available for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments in existing housing provided that Member States include this option in their national programmes. Other possibilities for the Commission to allocate funding for improving the energy efficiency of housing in the EU include the Sustainable Energy Financing Initiative (SEFI) launched in the 2nd Strategic Energy Review in November 2008, and the new Facility for European Local Energy Assistance (ELENA) operated jointly by the Commission and the European Investment Bank with funding from the Intelligent Energy Europe (IEE) Programme.