order to treat cases before the Court in a quick and effective way by judges with special knowledge of competition and state aid; 6. Asks the Commission to consider a new system whereby the final decision in a meger case, including the imposed conditions, should be subject to a preview by such an independent body in a fast-track procedure, giving a greater legal security for the companies involved and their competitors; 7. Considers that even in markets with low rates of mergers where competition theoretically exists, restrictive agreements may occur which promote price-fixing or excessively high margins; 8. Takes the view that it is in the consumer's interest to obtain better quality and improved services at a lower price, but that what consumers want above all is that the service required actually exists, and that the consumer is above all a citizen and resident who may use his vote to assert his demand for a general interest service in a specific form; 9. Welcomes the Commission conclusion that the functioning of the Technology Transfer Block Exemption ‘is too prescriptive and seems to work as a straitjacket, which may discourage efficient transactions and hamper the dissemination of new technologies’, which in turn may limit opportunities for job creation and employment growth; 10. Endorses the option chosen at the Stockholm Council, which was confirmed at Barcelona, to reorient sectoral state aid to horizontal objectives of common interest; 11. Takes the view that the principle of transparency requires that horizontal aids should be as well-defined as possible; 12. Welcomes the Commission recognition that agreements between SMEs are in general ‘de minimis’, and therefore fall outside EU competition policy rules; 13. Welcomes first editions of the public aid scoreboard as an important tool for promoting transparency and democratic control, but regrets the continued willingness to accept situations of blatant inequality in this respect; 14. Welcomes the inclusion of a chapter on services of general interest in the report; 15. Is of the opinion that the Commission and Council can no longer act as the only player in the field of European competition policy; calls therefore for increasing the democratic legitimacy of the Treaty provisions relating to the competition policy and to implement the codecision procedure to future legislative rules on competition policy; 16. Draws the Commission's attention to the efforts made by and the results obtained by the candidate countries and calls for greater discipline in connection with state aid with only short transitional periods, if any; 17. Recalls that the rules on state aid must be applied to the candidate countries in a non-discriminatory manner; 18. Calls once again for an international competition system in the framework of the WTO, since in view of the growing number of world-wide mergers, regional and price cartels and oligopolies, distortions of competition and abuse of the market can only be counteracted by world-wide minimum standards governing competition, particularly for mergers and cartels, and by minimum standards for supervisory authorities in all WTO Member States; 19. Welcomes the proposed modernisation of Regulation 17 of 1962 implementing Articles 81 and