(H1). Others referred to " obfuscations and general obstructiveness " (Mr BELLORD, H2) and " a pattern of deliberate delay " (Mr WEIR, H2). Mr SCAWEN (H3) said that " the Financial Ombudsman Service is ... part of the problem and not part of the solution ". The more specific criticisms put forward by policyholders against the FOS's handling of their complaints can be summarised as follows: Firstly, some policyholders expressed their dissatisfaction with the level of competence shown by the FOS's staff in the course of treatment of complaints. In WE 23 Pages 6 and 7. Mr SCAWEN states that " in my experience the staff are under-trained [and] do not have the legal financial or pensions experience ... For example, I made a complaint ... and was told in return that my claim was rejected due to the GAR compromise. Since I had very specifically ensured that my claim in no way mentioned or referred to any aspect of the compromise, I wrote a strongly worded letter back pointing out their error. In return, I received a reply saying they would now consider my claim. The point I am making is that I am reasonably knowledgeable about the issues, certainly more so than the overwhelming majority of policyholders. I suspect that most claimants would have accepted this so-called 'ruling' and let the matter rest. This is not an acceptable standard for a Government Department, which should have a clear duty to ensure accuracy and fairness ." Law firm Clarke Willmott is also highly critical of the FOS's performance, stating that the required " degree of diligence " would " all too often " be " absent " (WE 23 Page 25. ): " A good example in our experience has been the large number of mis-selling complaints made by Equitable With-Profits Annuity holders which were dismissed on the grounds that they were 'GAR-related', i.e. subject to the Compromise Scheme made between Equitable and its policyholders and sanctioned by the High Court on 8 February 2002. There has been widespread injustice caused by the dismissal of these complaints. This is because FOS failed to appreciate that the annuitants, writing their self-prepared complaints, believed that Equitable’s problems were caused by its GAR liabilities (because that was what was in the newspapers). They did not trouble, in our experience, to look deeper and find out what the real nature of the complaint was, which in most cases was the suitability of the policy, with its attendant risks " (WE 23 Page 25. ). An entirely different view on the FOS's approach is expressed in ES 3 Page 49. : " FOS processed the claims efficiently, thoroughly and with due regard to procedural rights. It went at lengths to ensure that all parties had a proper opportunity to be heard and an extensive consultation process took place before final determinations were made ." He went on to say that " there is no evidence to suggest that the FOS [didn't] work diligently, as efficiently as possible in the circumstances and with due regard to