the period covered by the Community's financial contribution. 3. In applying paragraphs 1 and 2, the following additional criteria may be taken into account: a) synergies with education at all levels; b) readiness and capacity to engage with actors beyond the research community and the public as a whole, to help spread awareness and knowledge and to explore the wider societal implications of the proposed work; c) activities to increase the role of women in research. 4. Calls for proposals shall determine, in accordance with the type of instruments deployed or the objectives of the RTD activity, how the criteria set out in paragraph 1 shall be applied by the Commission. These criteria, and those of paragraphs 2 and 3 , may be specified or complemented in the work programme , in particular to take account of the contribution of the proposals for indirect actions to improve information for and dialogue with society and to promote competitiveness of SMEs . 5. A proposal for an indirect action which contravenes fundamental ethical principles or which does not fulfil the conditions set out in the work programme or in the call for proposals shall not be selected. Such a proposal may be excluded from the evaluation and selection procedures at any time. Any participant having committed an irregularity in the implementation of an indirect action may be excluded from the evaluation and selection procedure at any time , due regard being had to the principle of proportionality . 6. The Commission shall evaluate the proposals with the help of independent experts appointed in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 . For some specific support actions, particularly those covered by Article 9(2), independent experts shall be appointed only if the Commission deems it appropriate. The Commission shall publish the list of the experts selected. All proposals submitted for indirect actions shall be treated confidentially by the Commission, which shall ensure that the principle of confidentiality is upheld in all procedures and that the independent experts are bound by this. Unless otherwise specified in the call for proposals, proposals shall not be evaluated anonymously. 7. Proposals for indirect actions shall be selected on the basis of the evaluation results and having regard to the Community funds available. The Commission shall adopt and publish guidelines setting out detailed provisions for evaluation and selection procedures. Article 11 Appointment of independent experts 1. The Commission will designate independent experts to assist with the evaluation required under the sixth framework programme and the specific programmes, and also for the assistance referred to in Article 10(6) and the second subparagraph of Article 18(1). It may in addition set up groups of independent experts to advise on the implementation of Community research policy. 2. The Commission will appoint the independent experts in accordance with one of the following procedures: (a) The independent experts appointed by the Commission for the evaluations provided for in Article 6 of Decision No .../2002/EC [on the sixth framework programme ] and in specific programmes under the sixth framework programme shall be very high-ranking individuals from the