report on the safety of these nanomaterials at the same time; 25. Reiterates its call for the provision of information to consumers on the use of nanomaterials in consumer products: all ingredients present in the form of nanomaterials in substances, mixtures or articles should be clearly indicated in the labelling of the product (e.g. in the list of ingredients, the name of such ingredients should be followed by the word 'nano' in brackets); 26. Calls for full enforcement of Directive 2006/114/EC to ensure that that there is no misleading advertising with nanomaterials; 27. Recommends the establishment of a feedback portal where nanomaterial researchers from industry, academia and citizen users can share experiences, report and share findings and find out the latest information, and which will regularly review these contributions. 28. Calls for the urgent development of adequate testing protocols and metrology standards to assess the hazard of, and exposure to, nanomaterials over their entire life cycle, using a multi-disciplinary approach; 29. Calls for a major stepping up of the funding of research into the environmental, health and safety aspects of nanomaterials over their life cycle, e.g. via the establishment of a special European Fund within FP7; furthermore calls specifically on the Commission to revise the evaluation criteria under FP7 so that FP7 attracts and funds significantly more research to improve the scientific methodology to assess nanomaterials; 30. Calls on the Commission to promote coordination and exchange between Member States on research and development, risk assessment, guidance development and regulation of nanomaterials by using existing mechanisms (e.g. REACH Competent Authorities Subgroup on Nanomaterials) or by creating additional ones, if appropriate; 31. Calls on the Commission and Member States to propose, as soon as possible, the establishment of a permanent and independent European decision-making platform responsible for monitoring nanotechnologies and nanomaterials, and a basic and applied research programme on the methodology for this monitoring (particularly metrology, detection, toxicity and epidemiology); 32. Calls on the Commission to carry out an impact assessment on the costs and benefits of creating a European institute on nanomaterials; 33. Asks the Commission and the Member States to undertake an EU-wide public debate on nanotechnologies and nanomaterials and on the regulatory aspects of nanomaterials and seek public opinion on which developments are considered acceptable or necessary and under which conditions; 34. Recognises that it is essential to remove the obstacles preventing very small businesses and SMEs in particular from accessing patents and calls at the same time for patent rights to be limited to specific applications or production methods of nanomaterials, and only to be extended to nanomaterials themselves on an exceptional basis, to avoid stifling innovation and to avoid creating a North-South "nano-divide"; 35. Considers that stringent ethical guidelines need to be developed in due time, particularly for nanomedicine, such guidelines being the right to privacy, free and informed consent, the limits set on non-therapeutic human enhancement, whilst offering encouragement to this promising interdisciplinary domain with breakthrough technologies such as molecular imaging and diagnostics, which can offer impressive benefits for the early diagnosis and smart and cost-effective treatment of