9.2.2010 B7-0094/2010 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure on Venezuela Renate Weber , Frédérique Ries , Marietje Schaake , Izaskun Bilbao Barandica , Marielle De Sarnez , Ramon Tremosa i Balcells on behalf of the ALDE Group PE432.948v01-00 B7‑0094/2010 European Parliament resolution on Venezuela The European Parliament , - having regard to its previous resolutions, and in particular that of 23 May 2007 on the Channel Radio Caracas TV in Venezuela, - having regard to Rule 122(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the TV Channel Radio Caracas and 3 other TV Channels had their licences suspended on the 24 January 2010 for not having connected to the official channel in order to transmit the presidential message on the occasion of the 52 anniversary of the fall of the dictator Perez Jiménez, B. whereas media freedom is of primary importance for democracy and respect for fundamental freedoms, given its essential role in guaranteeing the free expression of opinions and ideas and in contributing to people's effective participation in democratic processes, C. whereas the right of the public to receive information from pluralistic sources is fundamental for a democratic society and for citizens´ participation to the political and social life of a country, D. whereas the non-renewal of the broadcasting license of the private audiovisual group Radio Caracas Televisión (RCTV) expired on 27 May 2007 even though it continued broadcasting via cable, E. whereas the non-renewal of the license of this audiovisual organ, one of Venezuela's oldest and most important, will deprive a large section of the public of a pluralist source of information, thus undermining not only the right of the press to criticise the authorities, but mostly the right of the public to receive information and pluralistic opinions expressed by media, F. whereas the Organisation of American States through the Inter-American Commission of Human rights warned that the new closure of channels has enormous repercussions regarding the right to the freedom of expression; G. whereas during the latest violence and the student protests in different cities for and against the waiver of RCTV International, two young students were killed and dozens of other people got injured, due to the hard-line attitude of the police, H. whereas the events of the last days are not isolated ones as there is a growing concern in the Venezuelan population due to the climate of insecurity, the enormous indicators of delinquency, and violence that have turned Venezuela, I. whereas the media must abide by the provisions of the law, and closing a media outlet should be the last resort and a measure that should only be implemented after being given all the guarantees of due process, including the right to present a defence and appeal in independent courts of justice, J. whereas Articles 57 and 58 of Venezuela's Constitution guarantee freedom of expression, communication and information, K. whereas President Chavez recently declared that the