due to the availability of final data for the previous year, the current report date of 31 March has turned out to be unworkable. It is suggested that the annual report would instead be presented by the 30 June. Conclusion Article 1 of the Regulation already states that "...The lending and guarantee operations.....shall be those carried out for the benefit of a third country or for the purpose of financing projects in third countries." It is thus clear that the intention was always to carry out these operations with third countries and not with Member States of the Union. Does this mean that operations carried out in the past must now be excluded from the Guarantee Fund? Not necessarily. An exception could theoretically be made whereby already existing loans and guarantees could continue to be covered by the Fund whereas new operations would of be excluded. However, the intention of the current Regulation, fixing the scope of the actual guarantee mechanism exclusively to third countries, should in the rapporteur's view also apply to already existing liabilities. He can therefore endorse the Commission's specific amendment to this effect, especially since the real risk involved appear to be acceptable. It should also be noted that the concept of 'risk" in this situation refers mainly to what the Commission calls "commercial risk", as it is suggested that "political risk" - presumably meaning a failing state, civil unrest resulting in financial breakdown etc- is now considered all but eliminated. In a complex analysis of what liabilities should be taken into account to obtain the "maximum risk exposure", the Commission comes to the conclusion that this amount would be € 733 million at the time of accession. By 2006, this measure of risk will have fallen to about € 480 million. To put it simply: if all accession countries should default on their loans, this amount would have to be found through the budget or an amending budget. Although it is true that this credit risk would be transferred to the budget directly, and that it is simply not possible to exactly predict the chance of a default on individual loans, the rapporteur considers it highly unlikely that this situation should arise for a Member State of the EU. The rapporteur notes that, ever since its start, charges on the Fund due to defaults have been extremely low. Furthermore, they have never included any of the countries now joining the EU. In conclusion, therefore, the rapporteur can agree with the substantial changes proposed by the Commission. However, importantly, the rapporteur notes that by removing these countries from the lending mandate and the coverage of the guarantee mechanism, a "surplus" is created with respect to the established lending ceilings covered by the guarantee. In other words, some additional space will be created that could be used to extend guarantee-covered lending to other countries/regions. The rapporteur is inserting a new recital to highlight this fact. (am. 1 and 2). The amount of loans of the accession countries no longer covered will, as has been stated, amount to € 2