and young democracies, J. whereas India and Pakistan have engaged in a continuous dialogue since the beginning of 2004 in order to put an end to some of the disputes facing them, K. whereas, however, a new crisis may be brewing in Kashmir, and in the Indian states of Punjab and Haryana and the Pakistani provinces of Punjab and Sindh, as a result of the growing water shortages there, which could spark off a new and dangerous conflict, L. whereas, in view of ever decreasing supplies, the global thirst for oil is a potential source of strategic and political tensions, M. whereas 70 % of the energy consumed in India is imported, N. whereas on 1 April 2005 the myriad of local taxes was replaced by a national value added tax, with which it is hoped to raise tens of millions of dollars each year; whereas most, although not all, Indian states have adopted this new law, Domestic situation 1. Welcomes the democratisation process in India and India's commitment to democracy in an international context; 2. Declares its intention to contribute to a deepening of the relationship between the EU and India in keeping with the above-mentioned Commission Communication, the conclusions of the above-mentioned Fifth Summit and the above-mentioned European Parliament recommendation, as well as its continuing desire to develop and strengthen bilateral relations; 3. Welcomes the adoption, at the above-mentioned Sixth Summit, of a joint action plan to implement the EU-India strategic partnership, together with the joint political declaration, which takes relations between the EU and India to a new, higher and more intensive level, in particular as regards international peace and security, multilateralism, research, development, the environment, science, technology and human rights; welcomes in particular the creation of the high level trade group for trade and investment; considers that these agreements are a turning point in relations between the two economic powers and should be implemented with the active participation and engagement of India; 4. Stresses the remarkable cultural, political and, now, economic importance of India which, in the past, was only inadequately reflected in contractual relations between India and Europe; 5. Warmly welcomes the agreement on a strategic partnership between the EU and India, which confers on relations between the EU and India an importance equal to those with China, Russia, Japan, the USA and Canada; 6. Considers it important, in view of the clear desire on the part of non-European governments and public opinion to forge strategic alliances with India, for the Commission to make special efforts to raise the European Union's profile in India and to promote awareness of its institutions, principles, values and objectives; 7. Recognises that the desired mutual understanding between the EU and India will benefit from the strengthening of the privileged relations which some Member States maintain with certain regions of India for historical reasons, representing added value which favours proximity and genuine social, technical and economic cooperation; 8. Highlights the need to set up EU-India associations in order to promote the study, appreciation, diffusion and recovery of our shared linguistic, historical and