financed in whole or in part from the general budget. 2. The appropriations relating to the activities in which the JRC participates on a competitive basis shall be treated as assigned revenue within the meaning of Article 18. The commitment appropriations generated by this revenue shall be made available as soon as the amount receivable has been estimated. The utilisation of these appropriations shall be shown in a set of analytical accounts in the budgetary outturn account for each category of action to which it relates; it shall be separate from revenue originating from financing by third parties (public or private) and from revenue from other services carried out by the Commission for third parties. 3. The rules on procurement in Title V of part one shall not apply to the activities of the JRC on behalf of third parties. 4. By way of derogation from Article 23, the Commission may, within the title of the budget relating to the policy area "Direct action research", make transfers between chapters of up to 15 % of the appropriation in the line from which the transfer is made. TITLE IV EXTERNAL ACTIONS CHAPTER I General provisions Article 162 1. Parts one and three shall apply to external actions financed from the budget, save as otherwise provided in this Title. 2. The appropriations for the actions referred to in paragraph 1 shall be used by the Commission: a) either within the framework of aid granted on an autonomous basis; b) or under agreements concluded with one or more beneficiary third countries; c) or under agreements with the international organisations referred to in Article 53. CHAPTER 2 Implementation of actions Article 163 The actions referred to in this Title may be implemented either on a centralised basis by the Commission or on a decentralised basis by the beneficiary third country or countries, or jointly with international organisations. Appropriations for external actions may be combined with funds from other sources to achieve a joint objective. Article 164 1. Under the decentralised management arrangements, the Commission may decide to entrust management of certain actions to the authorities of beneficiary third countries, after having established that the beneficiary third country or countries are in a position, in the management of Community funds, to apply in whole or in part the following criteria according to the degree of decentralisation agreed: a) effective segregation of the duties of authorising officer and accounting officer; b) existence of an effective system for the internal control of management operations; c) for project support, procedures for the presentation of separate accounts showing the use made of Community funds; and for other forms of support, an officially certified annual statement for the area of expenditure concerned to be made available to the Community; d) existence of a national institution for independent external auditing; e) transparent, non-discriminatory procurement procedures ruling out all conflicts of interest. 2. The beneficiary country must undertake to comply with Article 53(6). Article 165 The implementation of actions by beneficiary third countries or international organisations is subject to scrutiny by the Commission. Such