Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (24 February 2009) The draft Commission Regulation on non-directional household lamps (resulting in the phasing out incandescent bulbs) endorsed by unanimity by Member State representatives on 8 December 2008 is currently under the scrutiny of the Parliament and Council. In addition to energy efficiency requirements, the draft Regulation introduces requirements on the functionalities of compact fluorescent lamps and on the product information to be provided in order to allow consumers to make informed choices, namely: rules on how to claim equivalence on the product packaging (such as ‘X watt compact fluorescent lamp = Y watt incandescent bulb’) so that consumers get compact fluorescent lamps that really provide as much as light as the incandescent bulbs that are claimed to be equivalent. The draft regulation also requires that the quantity of light provided by any lamp (expressed in lumens) should be displayed in a font twice as large as the indication of the power of the lamp in watts (in case the wattage is displayed outside the energy label provided on the packaging according to Directive 98/11/EC) OJ L 71, 10.3.1998. ; a minimum requirement on the lifetime of compact fluorescent lamps (at least 6000 hours), and a mandatory display of the lifetime on their packaging. Furthermore, the rights of consumers who either were misled about the characteristic of a fluorescent lamp or have bought a lamp which does not correspond to the specification are already covered by European consumer protection legislation. In particular, Directive 1999/44/EC OJ L 171, 7.7.1999. on the sale of consumer goods and associated guarantees safeguards the rights of consumers who have purchased faulty product (i.e. a product, which is not in conformity with the contract of sale). The product is presumed to be in conformity with the contract if it shows the quality and performance which are normal in goods of the same type and which the consumer can reasonably expect given the nature of the goods and taking into account any public statements by the seller or the producer on the specific characteristics of the goods (e.g. in advertising or information provided on the package). According to the directive the buyer of a faulty product has the right to have it repaired or replaced. If repair or replacement is impossible or inconvenient, the buyer has the right to get his money back. According to the directive this guarantee is two years long i.e. the seller is liable where the lack of conformity becomes apparent within two years from the delivery of the goods. It is legitimate for a seller to refuse to repair or replace a product during this period only if the nature of the good and/or public statements about it makes clear that its normal life span is shorter. In any event, the life span consumers can reasonably expect must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Batteries and incandescent light bulbs are examples of products which typically have a shorter life span than two years. Finally, Directive 2005/29/EC on Unfair Commercial Practices OJ L.149/22, 11.6.2005.