report thereon which shall be submitted to Parliament for debate. 3. The Ombudsman may also inform the committee responsible at its request, or be heard by it on his own initiative. Rule 196 Dismissal of the Ombudsman 1. One-tenth of Parliament's component Members may request the Ombudsman's dismissal if he no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of his duties or if he is guilty of serious misconduct. 2. The request shall be forwarded to the Ombudsman and to the committee responsible, which, if it decides by a majority of its members that the reasons are well-founded, shall submit a report to Parliament. If he so requests, the Ombudsman shall be heard before the report is put to the vote. Parliament shall, following a debate, take a decision by secret ballot. 3. Before opening the vote, the President shall ensure that half of Parliament's component Members are present. 4. If the vote is in favour of the Ombudsman's dismissal and he does not resign accordingly the President shall, at the latest by the part-session following that at which the vote was held, apply to the Court of Justice to have the Ombudsman dismissed with a request for a ruling to be given without delay. Resignation by the Ombudsman shall terminate the procedure. TITLE X PARLIAMENT'S SECRETARIAT Rule 197 Secretariat 1. Parliament shall be assisted by a Secretary-General appointed by the Bureau. The Secretary-General shall give a solemn undertaking before the Bureau to perform his duties conscientiously and with absolute impartiality. 2. The Secretary-General shall head a Secretariat the composition and organisation of which shall be determined by the Bureau. 3. The Bureau shall decide the establishment plan of the Secretariat and lay down regulations relating to the administrative and financial situation of officials and other servants. The Bureau shall also decide to what categories of officials and servants Articles 12 to 14 of the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Communities shall apply in whole or in part. The President of Parliament shall inform the appropriate institutions of the European Union accordingly. TITLE XI POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES RELATING TO POLITICAL PARTIES AT EUROPEAN LEVEL Rule 198 Powers and responsibilities of the President The President shall represent Parliament in its relations with political parties at European level, pursuant to Rule 19(4). Rule 199 Powers and responsibilities of the Bureau 1. The Bureau shall take a decision on any application for funding submitted by a political party at European level and on the distribution of appropriations amongst the beneficiary political parties. It shall draw up a list of the beneficiaries and of the amounts allocated. 2. The Bureau shall decide whether or not to suspend or reduce funding and to recover amounts which have been wrongly paid. 3. After the end of the budget year the Bureau shall approve the beneficiary political party’s final activity report and final financial statement. 4. Under the terms and conditions laid down in European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 the Bureau may grant technical assistance to political parties at European level