Answer given by Mr Figel' on behalf of the Commission (30 March 2007) The Commission thanks the Honourable Member for providing additional information on the technical aspects of this question raised in 2006. The Commission considers that gender-specific rules in the realm of sport do not automatically represent a case of gender discrimination. The parallel organisation of men's and women's competitions in various disciplines is often underscored by dissimilar technical specifications. The rules of the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) distinguish between male and female athletes without necessarily limiting the equality of treatment between the two genders. It is recalled that the practical conditions for organising and carrying out competitions are in the hands of the governing bodies of sport, who act within the framework of the autonomy of sport. The governing bodies of sports must ensure that their rules, procedures and practices are in line with Community law. Regarding the procedure for dealing with this potential problem, the Commission wishes to reiterate that it has not received any complaint related to it. Based on the principle of subsidiarity, the person(s) concerned by the problem should first discuss it with the Royal Spanish Olympic Shooting Federation. Should the outcome of this dialogue be unsatisfactory, the person(s) could bring the issue before the competent administrative or judicial bodies. The Equality Body created in conformity with Article 8a of Directive 76/207/EEC Council Directive 76/207/EEC of 9 February 1976 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, OJ L 39, 14.2.1976. , as amended by Directive 2002/73/EC Directive 2002/73/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 23 September 2002 amending Council Directive 76/207/EEC on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, OJ L 269, 5.10.2002. (in Spain, Instituto de la Mujer) will be able to provide independent assistance to the person(s) concerned in pursuing the complaint about discrimination. Under these conditions, the Commission does not have the intention to take action related to the issue referred to by the Honourable Member.