the following: BRIE ( A5-0151/00 ), PASCUA ( A5-0032/02 ) and MARCHIANI ( A5-0033/02 ), KORAKAS ( A5-0245/02 et A5-0420/03 ), COHN-BENDIT ( A5-246/03 ) and MARCHIANI ( A5-0422/03 et A5-0423/03 ). In a total of eight cases the committee considered that animus persecutionis was present to different degrees. In most cases Parliament found perturbation of a political activity (BRIE), abusive elements in the prosecution process and the conduct of the prosecutor ( MARCHIANI cases), or the consideration that the Member was judicially attacked because he was a MEP ( KORACAS case). 8. Dr Zelezný's case is of a certain intricacy. The committee has to weigh, on one hand, the suspicion cast by the Member on the accusations brought against him by the Czech authorities, and, on the other hand, the fact that the Senate has already waived his immunity in the same case and all the satisfactory responses and assurances furnished by the Minister of Justice, which has fully collaborated with the Committee on Legal Affairs. 9. Nevertheless, there are certain aspects to the case, as pointed out by Dr Zelezný ( some disproportionate reaction from the police on his arrest, the rather obscure situation of other main accused, Mr Novotný in the first case presented by the Prague Court, certain police harassment and the length of the proceedings), that have demanded a thorough exam by the committee, but, as said above, the response from the Senate and the explanations from the Minister of Justice make the rapporteur inclined to advise Parliament to waive the immunity of Dr Zelezný. Moreover, none of the criteria set out in point 6 and 7 of this explanatory statement has been clearly established in the present case, which makes it very difficult to appreciate whether there is a fumus persecutionis . 10. It is in the interest of Parliament to use the fumus principle very carefully so it is not seen as a privilege of the parliamentarian but a guarantee of Parliament's independence. In this complex case it might be in Parliament interest to allow Dr Zelezný to defend himself in the cases brought against him. But, also, and given the convoluted nature of the case, it might be necessary for Parliament to secure the situation of Dr Zelezný so that the proceedings against him do not perturb his work as an MEP. 11 The Judge has stated that "Dr Zelezný remains at liberty and there is no ground for his imprisonment, and nothing prevents him from continuing to perform his duties". It does not seem that the nature of the counts brought against him would need such a precautionary measures. With a view to ensure that his work as a parliamentarian is not perturbed during the proceedings brought against him, Parliament may use the right exceptionally granted by Rule 7 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. It has to be absolutely clear that this precludes any form of detention or any other measure which prevents the Member from performing his duties as a parliamentarian but only until final judgment is given by the Court.