{ "context": [ [ "Northern Sydney Institute of TAFE", [ "The Northern Sydney Institute (NSI) is a TAFE NSW Institute located in the northern Sydney region.", " The Institute comprises seven campuses that offer vocational education and training (VET) qualifications and TAFE NSW Higher Education Degree Programs.", " The Institute has partnerships with Universities providing pathways from VET qualifications to university degrees." ] ], [ "Institute of Indigenous Government", [ "The Institute of Indigenous Government, Canada's First Nations College, is a publicly funded post-secondary education institute located in Burnaby, British Columbia.", " Established in 1995, the institute was originally located in the Gastown neighbourhood of Vancouver.", " Its corporate owners, members, faculty, and students were in their majority made-up of indigenous people from around the world.", " As of September, 2007, the Institute of Indigenous Government is now part of the Nicola Valley Institute of Technology an aboriginal run, private institute in Merritt, British Columbia, that was started in 1983." ] ], [ "Mandar Madhukar Deshmukh", [ "Mandar Madhukar Deshmukh (born 20 October 1974) is an Indian physicist specialising in nanoscale and mesoscopic physics and affiliated to Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai.", " He was awarded the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology in 2015, the highest science award in India, in the physical sciences category.", " He obtained BTech degree from Indian Institute of Technology Bombay in 1996 and PhD degree from Cornell University under the guidance of D.C. Ralph in 2002." ] ], [ "Ford Institute for Human Security", [ "The Ford Institute for Human Security was established in 2003, and is an independent research institute located within the University of Pittsburgh.", " The researchers at the Institute primarily investigate issues relating to human rights, including: genocide, forced labor, corporate responsibility, international conflicts, forced migration, refugees, and environmental security.", " The Institute generates and disseminates policy papers and advances nonpartisan policy proposals.", " Research produced by the Ford Institute is available to national and international policy makers, non-governmental organizations, corporations and any interested organizations.", " Each year the Institute hosts several conferences, speakers, and workshops on issues related to human security.", " The Ford Institute was created with a large endowment from Ford Motor Company, and is currently under the direction of Louis A. Picard, a professor at the Graduate School of Public & International Affairs (GSPIA).", " The Ford Institute was previously directed by professors Simon F. Reich, who founded the Institute in 2003, Paul J. Nelson, and Taylor B. Seybolt." ] ], [ "Bankura Unnayani Institute of Engineering", [ "The Bankura Unnayani Institute of Engineering is a Government Aided, TEQIP-II funded and ISO 9001:2008 Engineering Degree Institute located in Bankura, West Bengal, India.", " Institute offers Undergraduate (B.Tech.)", " and Postgraduate (M.Tech.)", " courses in Engineering and Technology.", " Shri Jyoti Basu (Honorable Chief Minister, Government of West Bengal) inaugurated this Institute on 19 September 1998.", " Its academic curriculum started in 1998." ] ], [ "Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh Memorial Medical College", [ "Dr. Panjabrao Deshmukh Memorial Medical College or Bhausaheb Deshmukh Memorial Medical College