Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (31 August 2011) The shortage of burial sites in Yerevan has been known already for some time. In 2008 the government decided to promote the construction of crematoria as a solution to the lack of space in Yerevan’s cemeteries. Land has already been allocated in Yerevan’s Ajapnyak district, however the crematorium has not yet been build due to lack of funds. Currently 14 out of 21 cemeteries in Yerevan have reached the limits of their capacity. The government, including Prime Minister Sargsyan, raised indeed concerns about corruption in burying practices. As set out in the 2010 progress report on the implementation, by Armenia of its European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) Action Plan, the fight against corruption was characterised by uneven progress. The level of perceived corruption in Armenia decreased slightly in 2010. Good progress was made in improving the legislative framework in the area of anticorruption and in strengthening the role of the Human Rights Defender. Efforts were made to improve transparency in the public sector. The Chamber of Audit published a number of audits in state institutions and there was increased public discussion on corruption issues. Several high level officials were dismissed on corruption charges. Limited progress was made on the enforcement of anticorruption legislation and in the implementation of the Anti-corruption Strategy and Action Plan 2009-12. Overall, efforts seeking to tackle the endemic corruption remain limited. The EU is implementing programmes in Armenia to help the country address corruption in a systemic way. This approach includes both legal harmonisation with the EU and international standards as well as targeted institutional strengthening. The EU Advisory Group continues since 2009 to provide support to Armenian authorities in the core areas of the EU Armenia ENP Action Plan. Substantial contributions were made to the Armenian reform efforts in the areas of customs, protection of human rights, anticorruption, good governance, and trade related areas. Specific contributions were, for example provided, in drafting the Law on Public Service, including new provisions on conflict of interest. In addition, the ‘Justice reform programme’ (EUR 18 million) is ongoing with the aim of promoting comprehensive judicial reform and a proper Public Financial Management (PFM) system in the sphere of justice. A substantial decrease in corruption in the judiciary should also be achieved. Moreover, through an EU e-Governance project, modernisation of the existing State Registry of Legal Entities database and its equipment has been completed, enabling online publication of corporate information required by the law. This includes an online tax declaration system to diminish the corruption risks. Armenia also increasingly draws on twinning projects with EU Member States. A good example is the support to the Human Rights Defender in investigation and rapid response activities.