on all UN member states to endeavour to elect the candidate countries with highest human rights standards, which have ratified core human rights treaties, complied with their reporting obligations, issued open invitations to the UN special procedures and endeavoured to implement their recommendations; calls on the EU to insist that nominations be presented at least thirty days prior to election, to allow for public scrutiny of their human rights records and pledges; 9. Reaffirms its view that the HRC's ability to protect human rights will depend on all the parties' political willingness to make it a strong and effective body; 10. Calls therefore on all UN member states to fulfil the mandate that they have defined and to implement the mechanisms developed so as to ensure the ability of the HRC to meaningfully protect and promote human rights; 11. Urges the EU to play a pioneering role in the HRC and to set an example for working towards a strengthened human rights UN body, capable of addressing and reacting to human rights situations all over the world; 12. Reaffirms the need for strengthened consultation, cooperation and coordination between the EU and the UN, in particular the new HRC; 13. Reaffirms the need for a coordinated, concerted and well prepared approach on the part of the European Union prior to, during and after the HCR sessions so as to ensure an efficient and effective contribution to its proceedings; 14. Considers it appropriate, following the practice of EP participation in the annual sessions of the UNCHR, to continue sending a delegation to attend relevant sessions of the HCR; 62nd session of the UNCHR 15. Takes note of the decision to make the 62nd session of the UNCHR a transitional, procedural, shortened session; 16. Considers nevertheless that these modalities should not prevent the UNCHR from carrying out its protection mandate and that all activities of the Commission in standard setting should be duly adopted or otherwise followed-up; 17. Calls therefore on Members of the Commission to ensure that the work of special procedures mandated at the last session, is presented, acknowledged and fully debated, such as the report of the Secretary-General on cooperation with representatives of United Nations human rights bodies, and that those mandates that come to an end are renewed such as the mandate of the UN Secretary-General's Special Representative on Human Rights Defenders; stresses that the ability of human rights defenders to address the Commission and take part in the debates must be maintained; 18. Instructs the EP ad hoc delegation to the 62nd UNCHR to endorse and convey the views expressed in this resolution; *** 19. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the UN Secretary-General, the President of the 60th General Assembly and the High Commissioner for Human Rights.