Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (23 February 2009) It is the responsibility of the competent national authorities to identify and select the sites for protection under Council Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora OJ L 206, 22.7.1992. , which they then propose to the Commission. It is on the basis of these national proposals that the Commission adopts, in agreement with the Member States, lists of sites of Community importance. The selection process is exclusively based on scientific criteria, set out in the directive. The Member States must designate these sites as Special Areas of Conservation within six years of adoption of the Community list. The Habitats Directive does not set out a procedure for consultation with different interested and affected groups prior to notifying the sites. The Commission welcomes any such consultation but it is for the Member States to decide on whether and to what extent consultation takes place. There has in fact been an extensive consultation process in Ireland with landowners and other interest groups, including a national appeals system, prior to proposal of the sites to be protected under the directive. The establishment of Special Areas of Conservation (SACs) is not intended as a block on human activities. Rather the emphasis is on ensuring that these activities are environmentally sustainable and not damaging to the overall conservation objectives of the Natura 2000 sites. This is best achieved within the context of management plans for the sites. Under the LIFE Regulation, the European Union has supported the development of conservation management plans for Irish SACs, many of which are still in the process of finalisation http://www.npws.ie/en/PublicationsLiterature/ConservationManagementPlans/ . It is the responsibility of the competent authorities in Ireland to ensure that existing and future activities in Natura 2000 are managed in such a way as to ensure their long term environmental sustainability. Such an approach will not only help to ensure that the conservation values are maintained or restored where needed, but will also help to ensure the long term viability of any use of the areas. This can help safeguard the future of indigenous industries in these Special Areas of Conservation.