requesting Member State maintains its request and no solution can be found, the reasoned decision to refuse the request shall be forwarded to the Council for information by the requested Member State, for possible consideration in the context of a subsequent evaluation at the level of the European Union of the operation of this Convention. (Amendment 5) Article 9 While taking account of its own constitutional structures and national traditions, each Member State shall set up integrated multidisciplinary teams at national level, where they do not already exist, specifically in the area of organised crime, in particular with regard to laundering of the proceeds of crime. The coordinating teams should be familiar with national criminal investigations to enable them to contribute to developing national policies in their field of competence and to exchange information amongst themselves, in particular pursuant to Article 7 of the 2000 Convention. While taking account of its own constitutional structures and national traditions, each Member State shall set up integrated multidisciplinary teams at national level, where they do not already exist, with national competence specifically in the area of organised crime, in particular with regard to laundering of the proceeds of crime. The coordinating teams shall be familiar with national criminal investigations to enable them to contribute to developing national policies in their field of competence and to exchange information amongst themselves, in particular pursuant to Article 7 of the Convention of 29 May 2000. The Member States shall appoint for this purpose a European cooperation unit with a view to providing optimum information exchange and identifying and proposing best practice in this area. European Parliament legislative resolution on the initiative of the French Republic with a view to adopting a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, in particular in the area of combating organised crime, laundering of the proceeds from crime and financial crime (10213/2000 - C5-0394/2000 - 2000/0815(CNS) ) (Consultation procedure) The European Parliament, - having regard to the initiative of the French Republic (10213/2000 OJ C 243, 24.8.2000, p. 11. ), - having regard to Article 34(2)(d) of the EU Treaty, - having been consulted by the Council pursuant to Article 39(1)of the EU Treaty ( C5-0394/2000 ), - having regard to Rules 106 and 67 of its Rules of Procedure, - having regard to the report of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs ( A5-0314/2000 ), 1. Approves the initiative of the French Republic as amended; 2. Calls on the Council to notify Parliament should it intend to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 3. Asks to be consulted again if the Council intends to amend the initiative of the French Republic substantially; 4. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission and to the Government of the French Republic.