actions, while calling on the Commission to make an annual report on their implementation. MEPs maintain that civil society should be given a central role in the partnership with the Mediterranean countries and call for the implementation of policies aimed at creating a rich social fabric. Parliament insists that there should be a mid-term review of Article 2 of all association agreements with Mediterranean countries in order to evaluate whether respect for human rights, in particular women’s rights, and democratic principles are fully implemented in those agreements. MEPs call for the introduction of specific mechanisms to enable the human rights clauses included in the Euro-Mediterranean association agreements to be applied more effectively and efficiently. MEPs recognise that, in the context of this new spur to action by the Union, the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) can only work within the framework of an overall human rights and democratisation policy. They believe it should continue to be systematically and flexibly applied in the Wider Middle East and the neighbouring countries in Wider Europe, in particular given the €17.5 million increase in funds included in the 2004 budget, among other things to support and actively encourage the process of acting on the ‘Sana’a Declaration’. Parliament notes in this context that the Tunisian authorities are continuing to block funding for projects approved in the framework of the EIDHR which benefit independent NGOs, including the Tunisian Human Rights League, and deplores the fact that this government also prevented several representatives of civil society from taking part in the Sana’a Conference. Finally, MEPs call on their delegation to the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly to find ways to address the question of democracy and human rights in the region at the next meetings of this assembly. Press enquiries: Joëlle Fiss (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73840 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 41075 e-mail : foreign-press@europarl.eu.int Iran: elections not free and fair, say MEPs Motions for re solutions on the elections in Iran Doc.: B5-0080/2004 , B5-0083/2004 , B5-0084/2004 , B5-0088/2004 , B5-0094/2004 , B5-0098/2004 , B5-0099/2004 Debate: 12.02.2004 Vote: 12.02.2004 Vote MEPs expressed their regret at the severe setback in efforts towards the establishment of democratic structures in Iran represented by the exclusion of many candidates from the forthcoming parliamentary elections. In adopting a resolution on Iran, they stated their agreement with the Iranian President and a majority of current members of the Majlis (parliament) that this means the elections cannot be described as free and fair. Parliament notes that the reform-minded majority in the Majlis has been continually undermined by the unelected Guardian Council, with one third of bills adopted by the Majlis since 2000 having been vetoed by the Council. MEPs express their understanding and respect for the 127 Majlis members who have resigned after the electoral exclusions were announced. They warn that the lack of respect for democratic procedures may lead to a parliament unable to legitimise itself and a weakening of Iran's stance in the international community. It would also affect EU-Iran elections. MEPs remain convinced that continued dialogue between all the relevant European institutions and