would not be called upon to take these measures. If they are not solved in time, this will have negative consequences for the countries involved and not for the EU. Thus if the structures for agricultural payments are not in place, then there will be no money arriving for the farmers. The Commission has taken an especially close look at food safety, where there are a few problems as well. If food does not meet the standards required, it will not come into the internal market. But the number of cases here is relatively small and involves only a few companies in some countries. In short, the EU institutions and policies will always continue to function normally after May, there will be no notable disturbances. Where problems do arise, they will be manageable. Bulgaria and Romania have both made considerable progress. Bulgaria has finally moved forward with reforms in the justice area. Romania has improved its market economy and will achieve its target by 2007, especially if reforms continue as now. The Commission still wishes to bring in both countries in 2007, but remains faithful to the principle that no country should wait for another. Mr Verheugen encouraged the two countries to improve their political and economic governance, especially as regards corruption and economic crime, as the investment climate is concerned here. On Turkey, the Commission did not wish to pre-empt anything and avoid speculation on a possibly positive or negative recommendation next year. The speed and quality of reforms have gone up considerably, but more still needs to be done to meet the standards and requirements. In Turkey public opinion has reacted with surprise, expecting a much more negative evaluation. The Commission does recognise what has been done in Turkey so far, but there are still problems with fundamental rights, the implementation of judgements by the Court for Human Rights, and the implementation of reforms decided, which shows a considerable deficit. As regards Cyprus, the Commission took the new and possibly controversial step to link the Turkish application for membership to the issue of Cyprus. This is not a prerequisite - in Helsinki it was said it would not be. But it is a fact of life. If there is no solution, this would be a considerable obstacle to Turkish aspirations for Europe. Saying this in the strategy report is, of course, of political importance. There will be a window of opportunity after the elections on the Turkish side of Cyprus. Debate Hans-Gert POETTERING (EPP-ED, D) wondered whether the present Member States should not set a good example to the acceding countries, e.g. by adhering to the Stability Pact. Mr Poettering was delighted that Turkey is making good progress, but saw important differences between theory and practice. He asked the Commission whether it was considering other means of bringing Turkey closer to the EU, such as a privileged partnership. Mr Verheugen agreed that if the Commission were to compare the number of identified problems in the new Member States with that of infringement procedures against current Member states, the ratio would