Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (12 March 2009) According to Article 27 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities recruitment at the European institutions ‘shall be directed to securing for the institution the services of officials of the highest standard of ability, efficiency and integrity, recruited on the broadest possible geographical basis from among nationals of Member States of the Communities’. As the Honourable Member knows, this Article is to be understood in the sense that ‘merit’ should be the guiding recruitment principle whereas geographical — and gender — balance are of an important, but secondary nature. As a consequence, no quotas per Member State exist at any level of the organisation. Nevertheless, in view of the importance of the 2004 and 2007 enlargements, the Council adopted specific derogatory Regulations in order to facilitate the recruitment of citizens from the EU‑10 and EU‑2 Member States during defined transition periods. In this context, the Commission fixed indicative recruitment targets for the Member States concerned, at all levels of the organisation. The number of management functions was increased in proportion to the overall increase in the number of posts in the establishment plan EU‑10: Communication C(2003)436 of 19 February 2003. , EU‑2: Communication C(2006)5778 of 1 December 2006. . Indicative management recruitment targets for the EU‑10 Member States were set at 189 middle management and 41 Director/Principal Adviser positions. For EU‑2, the indicative targets are 63 middle managers and 13 Directors/Principal Advisers. At (Deputy) Director-General level (grade AD15) the Commission set itself the target to recruit at least one national from each of the new Member States. By 12 February 2009, the Commission had appointed Recruited and in the process of being recruited. 146 middle managers and 34 Directors/Principal Advisers from the new Member States. Several selection procedures are currently underway. At (Deputy) Director-General level the number of Deputy Directors-General has been brought to 9, as the annex The annex is sent directly to the Hopnourable Member and to the Secretariat of Parliament. shows. It is true that so far no ‘full’ Director-General from the new Member States has been appointed. This does not mean that none of the persons recruited at this level would be capable of taking up such a function. It rather reflects the consideration that appropriate in-house experience is considered desirable before taking up such a key function. The target of recruiting one Director-General or Deputy Director-General from each of the new Member States means that every nomination leads to meeting the indicative target of one country. The fact that in the case of three nationalities two Deputy Directors-General have been appointed is an illustration of the abovementioned principle that the primary recruitment criterion is and will remain a candidate’s merit. Though progress has been satisfactory so far, the target at (Deputy) Director-General level has not yet been reached for six new Member States (Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Malta, Bulgaria, Romania). Therefore, two posts at (Deputy) Director-General level which are about to be published are already targeting only these six nationalities and the