Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (12 November 2007) The Commission wishes to inform the Honourable Member that the information gathered has been taken from the Commission’s mission management system, which is in use in the whole Commission. The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) has considered it relevant to add some more detailed categories of missions to those described by the Honourable Member. The analysis below has been conducted taking the following categories into account: missions linked to cases, missions consisting of visits to other EU institutions or bodies, contacts with international administrative bodies, coordination of international investigative activities on fraud in the Member States, missions during which the Director-General delivered a speech and courtesy visits. The period covered (1 January 2005 to 30 June 2007) represents a total of 601 working days, out of which 162 were spent on missions by Mr Brüner, Director General of OLAF, representing an overall total of 94 missions. This figure amounts to about one quarter of the working days in the period concerned. The Commission wishes to highlight that the missions of any Director-General cover in the vast majority of cases several aspects of his service’s work, as is the case for the Director-General of OLAF. Thus, missions respond to either short-term and/or long-term requirements. In most of the cases, Mr Brüner’s missions are aimed at reinforcing the cooperation between operational services and have therefore both horizontal and operational aspects. As an example, courtesy visits are often necessary to deepen the cooperation with an external body in order to conduct investigations or inquiries (ongoing or foreseeable): 13 % of missions contained courtesy visits, all but one were linked to either ongoing cases or operational cooperation, 27 % of the missions were directly linked to cases. More than 80 % of Mr Brüner’s missions are linked to operational and administrative cooperation with Member states (60 %), European institutions and bodies (14 %) and/or international (40 %) organisations/institutions. This work, when not directly linked to a case, actively contributes to the strengthening of operational cooperation. In this respect, the Commission would refer, as a public example, to Mr Brüner’s mission to Burundi in June 2006 where, in close cooperation with the Commission, meetings with the local political and judicial authorities were organised for coordination work and during which an ongoing investigation relating to external aid was also discussed in great detail. Missions during which Mr Brüner gave a speech represent 40 % of the total. The active participation of the Director-General of OLAF in front of various audiences reflects OLAF’s in-depth involvement in either sponsoring, financing or organising fora, networks (Anti-Fraud Coordination Service — AFCOS, OLAF Anti-Fraud Communication Network — OAFCN) and conferences relating to anti-fraud, or anti-corruption. Again, when Mr Brüner delivered a speech during a mission, in the majority of the cases (62 %), these missions were combined with other aspects of work, such as meetings to deal with a case, cooperation or courtesy visits.