{ "context": [ [ "New Mexico Department of Transportation", [ "The New Mexico Department of Transportation (NMDOT; Spanish: Departamento de Transporte de Nuevo México ) is a state government organization which oversees transportation in the U.S. state of New Mexico.", " The agency has four main focuses—transit, rail, aviation and highways." ] ], [ "Frank W. Rollins", [ "Frank West Rollins (February 24, 1860 – October 27, 1915) was an American lawyer, banker, and Republican politician from Concord, New Hampshire.", " His father, Edward H. Rollins, had represented New Hampshire in the United States Senate.", " Frank served New Hampshire in the state's Senate (as its president in 1895) and as governor.", " Rollins and others founded the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests in 1901, a private organization to protect the forests now known as the \"Forest Society.\"", " A shelter was built in his honor at Lost River in Kinsman Notch, New Hampshire in 1912, and remains there.", " As Governor of New Hampshire, he invented and founded \"Old Home Week\" intended to remind New Hampshiremen to return to their hometowns.", " This was in response to the large numbers of people moving to the Midwest (Minnesota in particular) because of the slow economy in the northeast at the time.", " He and his father started the investment banking firm of E.H. Rollins and Sons, which became one of the largest in the country by the crash of 1929.", " After the crash, it was very diminished and finally closed in the 1940s.", " New research shows that Rollins and Senator John Weeks collaborated on the founding of the National Forest Act of 1911, signed by the President William Howard Taft." ] ], [ "Shock and Vibration Information Analysis Center", [ "The Shock and Vibration Information Analysis Center (SAVIAC) is a U.S. Government organization established by the U.S. Navy Office of Naval Research on 20 December 1946.", " SAVIAC's purpose is to promulgate information on the transient and vibratory response of structures and materials.", " This broad field includes such technical areas as the testing, analysis and design of structural or mechanical systems subjected to dynamic conditions and loading such as vibration, blast, impact, and shock for various agencies in the U. S. Government including NASA, the Department of Energy (DOE), and the Department of Defense (DOD).", " The organization sponsored the professional journal \"Shock and Vibration Journal\" and currently sponsors and publishes the professional journal \"Journal of Critical Technology in Shock and Vibration.\"", " SAVIAC also sponsored and published a series of monograms addressing different aspects of shock and vibration.", " In 2012 SAVIAC became inactive as a result of new Department of Defense cost-cutting regulations limiting DoD sponsorship and participation of conferences and workshops.", " SAVIAC has been succeeded by an industrially-funded and managed \"Shock and Vibration Exchange\" SAVE." ] ], [ "Ed Dupont", [ "Ed Dupont is a New Hampshire businessman, five-term New Hampshire state senator, former New Hampshire State Senate President, and President of the Dupont Group, one of New Hampshire's most powerful lobbying