Baltic Sea – Germany – Russia – Baltic States – Poland – Germany – Germany – Czech Republic – Poland – Germany – Other Member States – Libya – Italy – Tunisia – Libya – Italy – Caspian Sea countries – EU – Russia – Ukraine – Moldavia – Romania – Bulgaria – Greece – Slovenia – Other Balkan countries – Russia – Ukraine – Slovakia – Hungary – Slovenia – Italy – The Netherlands – Germany – Switzerland – Italy – Belgium – France – Switzerland – Italy – Denmark – Sweden – Poland – Norway – Russia – EU – Ireland – Algeria – Italy – France – Algeria – Tunisia – Italy – Middle East – East Mediterranean Gas Ring – EU – Winksele blending installation on north-south axis (blending of H gas with nitrogen) – Capacity upgrade on east-west axis: Zeebrugge – Eynatten 10. Actions improving the functioning of the interconnected natural gas networks within the internal market and transit countries, in particular, identifying the bottlenecks and missing links, developing solutions in order to deal with congestion and adapting methods of forecasting and of operating natural gas networks efficiently and safely: – Identifying the bottlenecks and missing links, especially cross-border, within the natural gas networks. – Developing solutions for natural gas flow management in order to deal with the problems of congestion within the gas networks. – Adapting the methods of forecasting and operating natural gas networks required by the functioning of the internal market. – Increasing the overall performance, safety and security of the natural gas networks in transit countries. 11. Developing and integrating the olefin gases transport capacity needed in order to meet demand within the internal market: – All Member States ANNEX III TRANS–EUROPEAN ENERGY NETWORKS Projects of common interest and their specifications, currently identified according to the criteria set out in Annex II ELECTRICITY NETWORKS 1. Developing electricity networks in isolated regions 1.1. Submarine cable Ireland – Wales (UK) 1.2. Connection of Southern Cyclades (EL) (to the Interconnected System) 1.3. 30 kV Underwater cable link between the islands of Faial, Pico and S. Jorge (Azores, PT) 1.4. Connection and reinforcement of the grid in Terceira, Faial and S. Miguel (Azores, PT) 1.5. Connection and reinforcement of the grid in Madeira (PT) 1.6. Submarine cable Sardinia (IT) – Italy mainland 1.7. Submarine cable Corsica (FR) – Italy 1.8. Connection Italy mainland – Sicily (IT): doubling of the connection Sorgente (IT) – Rizziconi (IT) 1.9. New connections in the Balearic and Canary Islands (ES) 2. Developing electricity connections between the Member States 2.1. Moulaine (FR) – Aubange (BE) line 2.2. Avelin (FR) – Avelgem (BE) line 2.3. Interconnection between Germany and Belgium 2.4. Vigy (FR) – Marlenheim (FR) line 2.5. Vigy (FR) – Uchtelfangen (DE) line 2.6. La Praz (FR) phase transformer 2.7. Further increase of capacity through existing interconnection between France and Italy 2.8. New interconnection between France and Italy 2.9. New trans-Pyrenean interconnection between France and Spain 2.10. Eastern Pyrenees connection between France and Spain 2.11. Connections between northern Portugal and north-western Spain 2.12.