Answer given by Mrs Kroes on behalf of the Commission (6 June 2011) The first interim evaluation of the Ambient Assisted Living (AAL) Joint Programme (COM(2010)763 final) based on Article 185 of the TFEU indeed concluded that the level of national financial contributions has been a major determining factor in the success of the programme. In fact, the financial commitments made by participating countries in the two first annual calls for proposals of the AAL Joint Programme exceed the minimum level needed in order to receive Commission funding, in accordance with the ‘matching’ principle. The collective minimum annual financial commitment from the participating countries is indeed EUR 25 million per year in order to access the EU matching funding, but the actual commitments were significantly higher, with participating States raising their financial contribution respectively 30 % and 50 % above the required minimum in 2008 and 2009. A positive, leverage effect has therefore been observed. There are no signs that this commitment is decreasing. The formal control of the respect of the ‘matching’ principle, according to which the EU financial contribution can only be committed and spent if participating countries also commit and pay their share of the budget, is being done in two steps: Firstly, this is and has been checked at the time of the annual EU financing agreements towards the annual work programme of the AAL Joint Programme, where financial commitment letters from participating countries are required to document the national financial participation, before EU funding is committed. Secondly, it is and has been checked at the time of actual payments towards the participants in the AAL JP projects, that the EU contribution is only paid, once there is evidence of payment of matching national funds. The mentioned difficulties for participants in the AAL Joint Programme arise from the differing national funding rules which are applied by the participating national programmes. It is intended that the Commission will work with participating countries towards further alignment of these rules as part of the follow-up to the Interim evaluation of the AAL Joint Programme. This problem has been highlighted in the ‘Innovation Union’ flagship initiative and goes beyond this particular joint programme.