founded on a set of values, as expressed, for instance, in the Copenhagen criteria, and whereas those values should be promoted all over the world as the only way to prevent terrorism in the long term, T. aware that the external and internal dimensions of the fight against terrorism are interlinked and inseparable, U. whereas prevention, and hence the need for exhaustive consideration of intelligence reports, are basic elements in the fight against terrorism, as evidenced by some of the attacks which have recurred, V. whereas in order for the actions of the Union in the fight against terrorism to be effective, close cooperation and an enhanced exchange of information between the institutions of the Union, the Member States and their respective intelligence services, and the Union's specialised agencies (such as Europol and Eurojust) are vital, W. whereas the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator has an essential role to play and whereas he must be given more powers and resources, X. whereas the Union must develop a proactive, rather than merely reactive, prevention , protection and suppression policy to combat international terrorism effectively, Y. whereas, in order to be effective, the fight against international terrorism and its ideology must be backed by real conviction and determination within the Union and the Member States and have the backing of an aware and well-informed public, Z. whereas the Member States must not delay implementation of all commitments associated with the fight against terrorism, based on counter-terrorism cooperation both within the Union and at the international level, AA. convinced that demonising any culture, civilisation or religion in the name of combating terrorism is a mistake which may have counter-productive effects, AB. whereas Muslims are themselves among the victims of Islamist terrorism, which is linked in turn to inherent conflicts within the Muslim world and to struggles for power and natural resources, including oil, Fundamental principles of the external dimension of the fight against international terrorism 1. Supports the need for a strategic objective of combating terrorism globally, respecting human rights, with the ultimate aim of achieving a more secure European Union, and allowing its citizens to enjoy a true area of freedom, security and justice; shares the view of the Council that, other forms of terrorism notwithstanding, the most serious threat to Europe at the moment is posed by violent radical groups claiming to defend Islam, such as the criminal Al-Qaeda network and the groups which are affiliated to it or are inspired by its ideology; 2. Emphasises the need for the European Union, its Member States and its partner countries to base their global counter-terrorism strategy on the fundamental principles which also serve to guide the actions of the United Nations, on a constructive and serious dialogue between peoples and nations, as well as between cultures, religions and civilisations, taking account of the respective perceptions and concerns, and on respect for international law; 3. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to ensure that certain groups of people from various diasporas living in Europe are not stigmatised, in particular by supporting policies to combat xenophobia