Answer given by Mrs Kroes on behalf of the Commission (11 May 2007) The term ‘national champion’ is not a legal concept and is therefore subject to different interpretations. It is often used to refer quite simply to industrial enterprises of a particular nationality which enjoy some success in the markets or sectors in which they are active. It goes without saying that the Commission can applaud without reservation European enterprises which have achieved success, on a national, European or worldwide scale, on the basis of the merits of their performance in the markets where they operate. Through the renewed Lisbon Agenda, the Commission is working in partnership with Member States to ensure that the conditions are in place for European industry to prosper in a global economy. In this context, the Commission fully supports policies which prioritise investment in research and development (R & D) and innovation; education, training and re-training; and up to date transport, communication and information technology (IT) infrastructures. At the same time, the Commission has warned of the inherent dangers in governments intervening to favour directly particular enterprises. In this sense, ‘national champions’ can refer to the targets of Member States' attempts to artificially engineer the creation or protection of perceived national assets. The Commission does not consider such attempts to be in the overall interests of European competitiveness in a global economy. The Commission therefore takes a firm position on direct or indirect steps taken by national governments or authorities to frustrate the takeover of important industrial concerns based in those countries. Similarly the Commission is reorienting its state aid policy to encourage Member States to spend more of their total state aid budgets on Lisbon-related objectives, instead of supporting measures which artificially keep failing companies alive. Experience has shown that even some of the short term benefits to shareholders or employees of such measures can be illusory: firms which are artificially spared from facing competitive pressures may have an incentive to reduce output and cut jobs. Consumers and taxpayers are likely to pay the price for what, in the longer-term, risks resulting in a downward spiral of decreasing competitiveness.