Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (2 March 2005) The Commission continues to be preoccupied by the problematic Human Rights situation in Iran, including in the area of freedom of expression and regarding the rights of religious minorities. It is aware that despite certain constitutional rights in Iran of three religious minorities – including Christians – serious problems continue to exist. As regards the application of the death penalty for converts from Islam, the EU has a clear and unambiguous policy against the use of the death penalty in all circumstances. The EU frequently raises this issue with third countries, including a range of Muslim countries. The specific case of Hamid Pourmand is, in fact, little known by the Commission (which, as the Honourable Member knows, does not have any representation in Iran), but from Christian news sources it has been reported that Mr Pourmand was arrested in Iran along with other members of the Assemblies of God, on 9 September 2004. It has since been reported that Mr Pourmand went on trial before a military court in Tehran at the end of January 2005, charged with apostasy. The Commission is seeking further information and feedback on this case from Member States represented in Iran, in order to determine how best to proceed. Based on the actual Human Rights situation in the country, the EU chose to co-sponsor Canada’s resolution on Human Rights in Iran at the Third Committee in the United Nations (UN) General Affairs Assembly in November 2004. Nonetheless, the Commission remains convinced that the Human Rights dialogue established between the EU and Iran - in which the Parliament has also taken part - should be maintained. The Council did reaffirm in its October 2004 conclusions the interest of the EU to pursue this dialogue, since it provides a forum that allows the EU to discuss individual cases as well as a range of Human Rights issues, on the basis of established benchmarks. In addition, and whenever deemed effective, the EU may choose to carry out demarches to Iranian authorities regarding individual cases. As the Honourable Member knows, following the ‘Paris agreement’ in November 2004, the European Union is resuming talks with the Iranian Government on a comprehensive range of issues. This gives the EU the opportunity to highlight, once again, to the Iranian authorities that all the relevant issues - political, nuclear, trade and human rights- are closely linked together. It is indeed the case that the situation of Human Rights, including the treatment of Christians and of people having converted from Islam, will have an impact on the development of closer relations between the EU and Iran.