health’ P5_TA-PROV(2003)006. , – having regard to Rule 49 of its Rules of Procedure, taken in conjunction with Rule 107, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs (A5‑0085/2003), A. having regard to the 1961 UN Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the 1971 UN Convention on Psychotropic Substances and the 1988 UN Convention against illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, B. whereas, on 16 and 17 April 2003 in Vienna, a Ministerial Conference of the UN Member States which are signatory to those Conventions will assess the progress achieved and the difficulties encountered in meeting the goals and targets set out in the Political Declaration adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth special session in 1998, C. whereas, in that Political Declaration, two target dates were set: 2003 for, inter alia , the establishment of new or enhanced drug-demand reduction strategies and 2008 for the elimination of, or significant reduction in, the illicit manufacture, marketing and trafficking of the substances listed in the Conventions, D. whereas the EU will be represented at that Conference by individual Member States as well as by a separate delegation, E. whereas reduction of illicit drug use, prevention of new people taking up drug abuse, particularly among young people under the age of 18, harm reduction, treatment of drug addicts and reduction of drug-related crime are among the central goals of the EU Drugs Strategy for the period 2000-2004, F. whereas the Council is in the process of adopting a recommendation to the Member States on the ‘prevention and reduction of risks associated with drug dependence’, G. having regard to the serious consequences of drug abuse and drug dependence, particularly at the social level and at the level of individual and collective health, H. whereas the overwhelming majority of crimes and offences committed in the EU consist of drug-related petty crime and organised crime connected with drugs, I. whereas the growing profits that criminal organisations make from trading in illicit substances, profits which are subsequently reinvested not only in other criminal activities but also in legal financial and economic circuits, have reached such a level that the criminal organisations involved wield considerable political, economic and financial power, J. whereas some experiments have been successful in reducing both the negative health impact and the level of petty crime, K. whereas there are different ways of treating drug addicts, as well as different drug policies, in the various Member States, L. whereas the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction concludes that the tendency of law enforcement authorities to give low priority to the prosecution of individual drug-use or possession of illegal drugs for personal consumption is confirmed by new measures towards the decriminalisation or non-prosecution of drug-use offences implemented in some Member States, M. whereas research and evidence-based and well-considered assessment are needed in order to determine whether the policies pursued on the basis of the UN Convention on drugs are effective in reducing the supply and demands for drugs, health risks and drug-related