well as add new ones - a move fiercely criticised by Parliament. In the case of dangerous substances, MEPs complain that they have not been informed in time about the Commission plans to modify the directive. Parliament considers that exemptions are being proposed where there are substitute products available. MEPs are therefore demanding that the Commission rethinks its plan for a decision, noting that last February saw only a token effort to start the procedure again. More generally, Parliament takes the view that the Commission " has exceeded the executive powers " accorded to it under the directive and in the agreement regulating the comitology procedure. MEPs note that this is not the first such case and demand from now on that the Commission respect the right of the Parliament to information. They further ask that the Commission provides them with a detailed evaluation of every case where the comitology procedure was not adhered to. Press enquiries: André Riche (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73840 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 40992 e-mail : envi-press@europarl.eu.int Eco-design: making appliances more environmentally friendly Frédérique RIES (ALDE, BE) Report on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the setting of eco-design requirements for Energy-Using Products and amending Council Directive 92/42/EEC and Directives 96/57/EC and 2000/55/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (11414/1/2004 – C6 0246/2004 – 2003/0172(COD)) Doc.: A6-0057/2005 Procedure : Codecision (2nd reading) Vote : 13.04.2005 In adopting the legislative report of Frédérique RIES (ALDE, BE) on 13 April, the European Parliament gave its go-ahead to the speedy introduction of a new framework directive on eco-design - ecological design of energy-using products. What is it about? The framework directive concerns all products using energy, except motor vehicles, which are regulated elsewhere. The text covers all sorts of domestic or office devices used everyday by Europeans, from the dishwasher and the washing machine to the computer and the simple electric light-bulb. Seemingly harmless, these devices consume about 30% of primary energy in the EU and are responsible for 40% of CO2 emissions into the atmosphere. Since it is at the manufacturing stage that the rate of energy consumption is determined, this is the focal point of the measures. After the mid-March vote in the Environment Committee, the rapporteur and the EP shadow rapporteurs started negotiations with the Commission and the Council. This informal process led to a compromise, approved by the Member States' permanent representatives in the Council a few days ago. With this compromise welcomed by the plenary, Parliament will be able to avoid a conciliation procedure with the Council, which in turn enables the Commission to concentrate on concrete measures to implement the agreement. In the debate which preceded the vote, the rapporteur declared, " With this framework directive, the EU is equipped with a new tool in the protection of the environment. Almost 80% of environmental pollution stem from the design phase of production. It is therefore important to tackle the problem from its source ." Since the Commission had not set