reducing the cost of labour, particularly for lower paid workers, whilst efforts to stimulate the economy should focus on public and private investment and on swifter attainment of the objectives and structural reforms which form part of the Lisbon strategy but on which progress is lagging in several Union countries. Also, the process of integrating financial services should be speeded up. The aim is therefore to increase public and private investment in the following sectors: 1. research and innovation; 2. policies to develop and promote lifelong learning to ensure that mobility and flexibility are an integral part of a strategy of employability, based on education, adjustment and vocational retraining; 3. creation of infrastructures capable of meeting the new requirements of integrated systems of enterprises, such as the establishment of a European telecommunications network or the dissemination of services to provide information, vocational guidance, refresher courses and retraining for the long-term unemployed. In this connection, the process of competitive liberalisation of general interest services should be pursued in the energy, gas and transport sectors, while safeguarding their universal character, with or without privatisation. Bearing in mind the budgetary constraints in particular, decisions of this kind must be coordinated if they are to be effective, first and foremost in the Euro zone. Economic government of the monetary union would permit a transparent dialogue with the Central Bank whose independence should be reinforced and safeguarded. However, this independence cannot signify passive acceptance of a monopoly - albeit an indirect one - over economic policy decision-making at European level. This dialogue must allow scope for assessing whether margins are available for a further reduction in interest rates. Decisions and initiatives relating to coordination methods should not be left solely to individual states. The Commission should play a vital role in proposing and promoting open forms of collaboration, such as those provided for by the Lisbon Summit, in the field of research, innovation and lifelong learning, the establishment of an integrated services network, for example, for employment services and in the field of telecommunications, the harmonisation of strategies on active ageing, a vital prerequisite for a reform of pension systems capable of safeguarding the universal nature of the basic system and avoiding a reduction in earnings for employees and self-employed workers. The Commission should also issue a directive on the implementation of a system of training and lifelong learning based on the framework agreement defined by the social partners at European level and follow up the Green Paper on corporate social responsibility by encouraging agreements at regional and European level to promote social management of restructuring processes and information and preventive consultation arrangements for representatives of employees in public institutions that take into account the forecasts of the European observatory on industrial change in Dublin. Finally, detailed consideration should be given to the suggestions from TEPSA designed to encourage transparency and broader participation in the decision-making process for economic and social policy (policy mix) at European level, both through more systematic involvement of national parliaments and closer coordination between the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and