for defining the national strategy and priorities for the European Year as well as for selecting the individual activities to be proposed for Community funding. The national strategy and priorities for the Year shall be set out in accordance with the objectives listed in Article 2 and will seek to ensure a balanced treatment of all grounds of discrimination as referred to in Article 2. Each State shall ensure that this body is involved in the design, definition and execution of the National Policy Plan to be submitted to the Commission by 31 December 2006 at the latest. National Policy Plans shall consist of translating the objectives set out in Article 2 into the national and cultural contexts. The procedure for awarding Community funding for national level activities is set out in Part II of the Annex. Justification This amendment seeks to rationalise procedures for the award of funding with a view to reducing the administrative burden on the Member States. Amendment 30 Article 5, paragraph 2 2. The Commission shall delegate its budget implementing power to national intermediary bodies chosen by the participating States and approved by it in accordance with the procedures laid down under Part II(1) of the Annex, in accordance with the provisions of Article 54(2)(c) of the Financial Regulation. 2. For the purpose of carrying out its tasks, this Body shall consult on a regular basis and cooperate closely with civil society, including with organisations defending or representing the interests of people potentially exposed to discrimination and unequal treatment and with other relevant stakeholders. Once satisfied that the procedure and conditions referred to under Part II(1) of the Annex have been complied with, the Commission shall approve the body selected for delegation, and delegate the relevant budgetary powers to it. Justification This amendment seeks to rationalise procedures for the award of funding with a view to reducing the administrative burden on the Member States. Amendment 31 Article 5, paragraph 3 3. The national intermediary bodies shall take all the steps necessary for executing the implementing tasks delegated to them as detailed in Part II(2) of the Annex as regards the selection and management of the local, regional and national actions referred to in Part II(4) of the Annex. Deleted A delegation agreement must be signed between the intermediary body and the Commission as a prerequisite for the body’s implementation of its delegated tasks. The Commission shall be entitled to monitor and supervise the intermediary bodies in compliance with the requirements imposed by the Financial Regulation. Justification This amendment seeks to rationalise procedures for the award of funding with a view to reducing the administrative burden on the Member States. Amendment 32 Article 6, title and paragraph 1 Committe e Advisory Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee, composed of one representative per State and chaired by a representative of the Commission. The representative per State shall be designated from the national intermediary body as referred to in Article 5(2). 1. The Commission shall be assisted by an advisory committee, composed of one representative per