can cause an increase in fuel consumption. When this is multiplied across millions of cars the effects can be enormous. Noise levels and wet grip also labelled Like the European energy label, the tyre label will use classes ranging from best-performance (green “A” class) to worst (red “G” class). As well as fuel efficiency labels information about tyres would also have to show levels of wet grip and rolling resistance. There would also be a "low noise mark" showing a tyre with earmuffs if it is below 68 decibels (C1), 69 decibels (C2 tyres) or 70 decibels (C3 tyres). The reason the Committee and Ivo Belet of the centre-right EPP-ED group were so keen on labelling is that 78% of all tyres sold in Europe are replacements for older ones and they want drivers to be informed of their choices. Mr Belet is confident it will cause no hassle to drivers: "Opting for eco-friendly tyres will become very straightforward thanks to a European-wide consumer-friendly and easy to read labelling system." He went on to tell us the measure has "substantial environmental and consumer benefits". The Parliament approved the draft regulation on Wednesday 25 November 2009. Energy Efficiency Package 20% energy saving objective by 2020 Update the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive Revise the Energy Labelling Directive A proposed Directive on tyre labelling to promote fuel efficiency Report Energy efficiency: additional measures to curb consumption Energy MEPs back more energy efficient buildings A thermogram showing heat and energy use in buildings. The hotter parts show where heat is lost ©Belga Unless you are lucky enough to be sitting in a park with a laptop, if you are reading this you are probably in one of the 160 million buildings in the European Union. In total they account for 40% of Europe's energy use and the room for savings is extensive. MEPs on the Energy Committee recently backed proposals that should see all buildings constructed after 2018 having to produce their own energy. The plans relate to proposed changes to the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive. On Tuesday 18 May, MEPs approved the changes to Energy Performance of Buildings Directive. This will help consumers to cut their energy bills and the EU as a whole to hit its climate targets set for 2020. Member States will have to alter their building codes so that all new buildings constructed from the end of 2020 meet high energy-saving standards. Existing buildings will have to be upgraded where possible. Higher standards for new buildings All buildings put up from the end of 2020 must have high energy-saving standards and, to a large extent, use renewable energy. Public authorities' building projects are to lead the way two years earlier. Part of the funding for these changes will come from the EU budget. Upgrading of existing buildings Where feasible the energy performance of existing buildings will have to be improved through major renovations. When renovating, owners will be encouraged to install "smart meters" and replace heating, hot-water plumbing and air-conditioning systems with high-efficiency alternatives such as heat pumps. Regular