Answer given by M Tajani on behalf of the Commission (7 September 2009) (A) The Commission would like to inform the Honourable Member that it adopted a decision on 14 July 2009 (C(2009)5507)) See the press release on the following website: http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=IP/09/1132&type=HTML&aged=0&language=EN&guiLanguage=en – pending publication of the decision in the OJ by which it initiated a formal investigation procedure as regards state aid for infrastructure development in favour of the Piraeus Port Authority S.A. (hereinafter ‘PPA’), notified to the Commission on 25 February and 28 March 2008. However, in its decision to open an investigation the Commission reached the preliminary conclusion that there was no state aid provided to Cosco Single-Purpose Limited Company (AEAS) (hereinafter the ‘contractor’) as far as the notified measures were concerned and did not pronounce itself on the existence of any other possible state aid granted to the concession holder outside the scope of the notified measures. Since the notifications did not concern possible fiscal or capital provisions in favour of the contractor these issues are not covered by the current investigation procedure. (B) In view of the answer above, the question of whether Articles 2 and 3 of Law 3755 of 30 March 2009 (Official Gazette A 52/09) contain state aid elements and, if so, whether such elements are compatible with the common market, have not been examined in the opening decision. In this respect the Commission will request further information from the Greek authorities in order to be able to assess whether the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 of Law 3755 are compatible with the Community rules on state aid. If the Commission establishes that such possible advantages have been granted to the contractor, it may extend the scope of the formal investigation procedure in order to address these issues. (C) With respect to the issue of the maintenance of competition in the port, it is the understanding of the Commission that the Greek authorities plan to extend Pier I (the specific area of the Port of Piraeus, which according to Article 9.2 of the concession contract will remain operated by PPA) by means of a construction of a new jetty This measure is part of the notifications subject to the formal investigation procedure. . The Greek authorities have further emphasised that the concession will for the first time actually introduce competition within a Greek port, which should enhance both the efficiency and quality of the provided services to the overall benefit of the economy and consumers. For the sake of completeness, it should be reminded that there is no Community legislation which prevents the Greek authorities from granting all or part of the port services provided in a certain port to one or several undertakings. In the case at stake the concession has been won by the contractor following a Europe-wide open and transparent public tender. In addition, Article 82 of the EC Treaty prohibits only abuses of dominant position but not the mere fact that a company may enjoy a dominant position on a particular market. (D) As far as the purpose of