assistance which shall be provided within three months of the request. 5. Detailed rules for the implementation of paragraphs 1 to 4 may be established in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4), after consultation of the Authority. Article 40 Reporting and exchange of information on applications for authorisation 1. Member States shall compile a file on each application. Each file shall contain the following: a) a copy of the application; b) a report containing information on the evaluation of and decision on the plant protection product; c) a record of the administrative decisions taken by the Member State concerning the application and the documentation provided for in Article 33 (3) together with a summary of the latter. Not later than ... * 12 months after the entry into force of this Regulation. , the Commission shall present a proposal introducing a standardised format for the documentation provided for in points (a), (b) and (c). 2. Member States shall, without delay, make available to the Authority a file containing the documentation provided for in points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 1. The Authority shall maintain a register in which all authorisations in the different Member States are registered. 3. To facilitate the decision-making process described in Article 37(2), Member States having granted an authorisation shall, without delay, make available to the other Member States ▐and the Commission a file containing the documentation provided for in points (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph 1 of this Article . 4. Within 12 weeks of a decision on the authorisation of a plant protection product, Member States shall make available a record of the administrative decision as referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1 on a public web site. 5. On request, applicants shall provide a copy of the documentation to be submitted with an application pursuant to Article 33 (2) and Article 34 to Member States, the Authority and the Commission. Subsection 3 Mutual recognition of authorisations Article 41 Mutual recognition 1. The holder of an authorisation may apply for an authorisation for the same plant protection product and for the same use in another Member State under the mutual recognition procedure║ provided for in this subsection. ▐ ▐ 2. Mutual recognition shall not apply to plant protection products containing a candidate for substitution. Article 42 Authorisation 1. The Member State to which an application under Article 41 is submitted shall examine thoroughly the assessment undertaken by the reference Member State against the circumstances in its own territory. 2. The Member State shall grant the authorisation under conditions relevant to that Member State or refuse to grant the authorisation if Article 30 is not fulfilled in that Member State. 3. The authorisation may be subject to provisions resulting from the implementation of other measures in accordance with Community law, relating to the conditions for distribution and use of plant protection products intended to protect the health of the distributors, users and workers concerned. 4. The authorisation may be subject to additional requirements when relevant agricultural, plant health