emissions can be extremely high in places where non-road machinery is used, for example on building sites. If stricter emission limits also cover barges and train engines, this will help EU goods transport policy, which seeks to promote rail and inland waterway rather than road transport. However, opponents of these amendments within the committee argue that tougher restrictions would give rise to disproportionate costs, especially for farmers. The inclusion of train engines in the directive was opposed by several Members who feared this would encourage the preservation of old, even more harmful, engines in the new Member States. The planned legislation does not apply to machinery already in use. There will also be transition phases up to 2011. In addition, MEPs give thought to train engines that are collectors' items and call for these to be exempted from the rules. Equal Opportunities / Women's Rights Human rights clauses in trade must address violence against women Miet SMET (EPP-ED, B) Report on violation of women's rights and EU international relations (2002/2286(INI)) Doc.: A5-0334/2003 Procedure : Own-initiative report Debate : 21.10.2003 Since 1992 the European Union has incorporated a human rights clause into all its agreements with non-EU countries. However, in an own-initiative report drawn up for the Women's Rights Committee, Miet SMET (EPP-ED, B) stresses that this clause is clearly inadequate when it comes to protecting women, who continue to suffer unacceptable forms of violence often perpetrated in the name of culture and tradition. She points out that international implementation of human rights in practice tends to take less account of violence against women, which stems from the unequal nature of the relations between men and women in many societies. The committee believes that there are various measures which the EU could take in the context of its international relations to help combat violence against women. It wants to see a comprehensive definition of violence, whether private or public, included in trade and development agreements. These agreements should also include a specific clause providing for sanctions and, ultimately, the suspension of the agreement in the event of serious and repeated violations of women's rights, i.e. widespread episodes of violence such as genital mutilation, mutilation with acid, public castigation, burning, blood feuds, stoning, raping, trafficking in women, "honour killings", forced marriages and slavery. However, careful consideration should be given to the impact of any sanctions or suspension on the population as a whole and on women and children in particular. MEPs also want the EU to adopt a "carrot and stick" approach by establishing favourable or unfavourable trade terms for partner countries according to their record for fighting violence against women and by establishing incentives for those countries according to their achievements in the fields of democratisation and the rule of law. Lastly, they call on the Commission to propose anti-violence measures and clauses in multilateral agreements, for example in the context of the WTO. Economic & Monetary Affairs No more cheap cigarettes in Corsica after 2009 John PURVIS (EPP-ED, Scotland) Report on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directives 92/79/EEC and 92/80/EEC,