Parliament's Members, particularly as the provision as currently worded can be interpreted in two ways. The proposed new version of Rule 51 essentially seeks to achieve three objectives: 1) Make the provision more readily understandable and therefore easier to use. 2) Lay down new conditions governing the application of the procedure. 3) Determine the scope of the procedure. With a view to achieving the first objective, the conditions governing the application of the procedure no longer take the form of references to other provisions. The two conditions are set out in a clear and immediately understandable form. Achieving the second objective, that of laying down new conditions governing the application of the procedure, necessitated substantive changes: Whereas hitherto it was sufficient – by virtue of the reference to Rule 50 – that the matter should fall ‘almost equally within the competence of two or more committees, or that different parts of the matter should fall within the competence of two or more committees’, now it is necessary that ‘responsibility for the matter cannot be split between several committees’. The purpose of this change is to emphasise the exceptional nature of the procedure with joint committees and is justified, inter alia, by the administrative and technical workload which that procedure entails. The third objective, that of determining the scope of Rule 51, i.e. the practical implications of its application for the ongoing legislative procedure, is more difficult to achieve. The key issue is to determine whether the procedure should be ‘joint’ throughout its duration or only at first reading. Although there are practical arguments in favour of the second option, your rapporteur supports the first. If, as generally accepted, the aim of the new procedure is to enable the committees concerned to exchange arguments at an early stage and to ‘prepare the ground’ for plenary when the matter at issue is particularly important, under the ordinary legislative procedure this logic applies at all stages, right up to the adoption of the act. For the duration of the procedure the joint committees thus become the ‘committee responsible’ within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE Date adopted 24.5.2011 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 20 2 0 Members present for the final vote Andrew Henry William Brons, Carlo Casini, Andrew Duff, Ashley Fox, Matthias Groote, Enrique Guerrero Salom, Zita Gurmai, Gerald Häfner, Daniel Hannan, Constance Le Grip, David Martin, Paulo Rangel, Potito Salatto, Algirdas Saudargas, Søren Bo Søndergaard, Indrek Tarand, Rafał Trzaskowski, Luis Yáñez-Barnuevo García Substitute(s) present for the final vote John Stuart Agnew, Zuzana Brzobohatá, Sylvie Guillaume, Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, Rainer Wieland