EUR million): Justification Standard amendment in order to emphasize that the amounts proposed are subject to confirmation by a possible multiannual financial framework . Amendment 4 Article 3, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Commission shall provide prior information to the budgetary authority whenever it intends to depart from the breakdown of expenditure stated in the remarks and annex of the annual budget Justification To improve the financial monitoring of Community financed research activities, the rapporteur considers that the Commission should inform the budgetary authority on the implementation of specific programmes on a regular basis and provide prior information whenever it intends to depart from the breakdown of expenditure stated in the general budget. Amendment 5 Article 3, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. Access to funding shall be facilitated by the application of the principle of proportionality as regards the documents to be supplied and by the creation of a database for the submission of applications. Or. en Justification The methods and the procedures need to be simplified in order to speeding up the transparency of the selection procedure and facilitate access to the programme. The appropriations allocated to the Executive Agency should comply with the provisions of the Code of conduct on the setting up of an Executive agency and Council Regulation N°58/2003 laying down the statute for executive agencies to be entrusted with certain tasks in the management of Community programs. This will ensure appropriate financing of the actions of the programme. Amendment 6 Article 3, paragraph 2 b (new) 2b. The overall administrative expenditure of the programme including internal and management expenditure for the Executive Agency should be proportional to the tasks provided for in the programme concerned and is subject to the decision of the budgetary and legislative authorities. Or. en Justification The methods and the procedures need to be simplified in order to speeding up the transparency of the selection procedure and facilitate access to the programme. The appropriations allocated to the Executive Agency should comply with the provisions of the Code of conduct on the setting up of an Executive agency and Council Regulation N°58/2003 laying down the statute for executive agencies to be entrusted with certain tasks in the management of Community programs. This will ensure appropriate financing of the actions of the programme. PROCEDURE Title Proposal for a Council decision concerning the seventh framework programme of the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) for nuclear research and training activities (2007 to 2011) References COM(2005)0119 – C6-0112/2005 – 2005/0044(CNS) Committee responsible ITRE Opinion by Date announced in plenary BUDG 10.5.2006 Enhanced cooperation – date announced in plenary Draftswoman Date appointed Marilisa Xenogiannakopoulou 9.6.2005 Previous draftswoman Discussed in committee 22.2.2006 Date adopted 22.2.2006 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 32 4 1 Members present for the final vote Laima Liucija Andrikienė, Richard James Ashworth, Reimer Böge, Simon Busuttil, Paulo Casaca, Gérard Deprez, Valdis Dombrovskis, Brigitte Douay, Bárbara Dührkop Dührkop, James Elles, Szabolcs Fazakas, Louis Grech, Nathalie Griesbeck, Catherine Guy-Quint, Jutta D. Haug, Ville Itälä, Anne E. Jensen, Alain Lamassoure, Janusz Lewandowski, Vladimír Maňka, Jan Mulder, Gérard