Answer given by Mr Šefčovič on behalf of the Commission (5 May 2010) An official or former official who is called to give evidence in legal proceedings to do with his work must request prior authorisation from the appointing authority. This authorisation has to be granted, except where the interests of the Union would justify a refusal Article 19 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities: ‘An official shall not, without permission from the appointing authority, disclose on any grounds whatever, in any legal proceedings information of which he has knowledge by reason of his duties. Permission shall be refused only where the interests of the Communities so require and such refusal would not entail criminal consequences as far as the official is concerned. An official shall continue to be bound by this obligation after leaving the service.’ . This also means that each request, whether introduced by the official directly or by a national judicial authority, is examined by the appointing authority individually and case by case. Refusals are wholly exceptional and no such case has occurred in recent years. When Commission officials are invited to give written or oral evidence on or off the record to a national parliamentary committee, in a Member State, they must obtain authorisation from the Commission's competent authority and follow the relevant internal procedures. This situation can be considered to be similar to that of evidence given at the request of a court — there is a similar revelation of previously unpublished information, the institutions have a similar duty of cooperation with such bodies and such committees may have powers to compel witnesses, similar to those of courts. Members of the Commission are not subject to the Staff regulations. If they are invited to give written or oral evidence to a national parliamentary committee either on or off the record, they are, without prejudice of the confidentiality due to the meetings of the Commission, free to do so at their discretion. Out of respect for the principle of collective responsibility, it is foreseen that the Commission should be informed each time one of its member gives such evidence to a national parliamentary committee.