are no longer fulfilled. To that effect, the implementing measures and grant agreements arising from this Decision shall provide in particular for supervision and financial control by the Commission (or any representative authorised by it), audits by the Court of Auditors, and for on-the-spot checks carried out by OLAF or any Commission department, in accordance with the procedures of the Council Regulation n°2185/96. Justification This change arises from the new Article 5 as amended by the rapporteur with a view to simplifying the administrative and financial management of this event. Amendment 47 Annex, part II, paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. The Commission shall evaluate and if necessary request modifications to the applications for Community funding submitted by the National Implementing Bodies. The NIBs shall be responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the various national activities. Justification This change arises from the new Article 5 as amended by the rapporteur with a view to simplifying the administrative and financial management of this event. Amendment 48 Annex, part II, paragraph 5, point (b) (b) Information campaigns and measures to disseminate the principles and underlying values celebrated by the European Year at national level including the organisation of awards and competitions (b) Information and educational campaigns and measures to disseminate the principles and underlying values celebrated by the European Year at national level including the organisation of awards and competitions Justification The European Year should have an educational dimension. Amendment 49 Annex, part II, paragraph 5, point (c) (c) Cooperation with corporate, broadcasting and media organisations in particular as partners spreading the information about the European Year at national level deleted Justification This amendment arises from the deletion of Article 3, paragraph 1, point (c) Amendment 50 Annex, part II, paragraph 5, point (d) (d) Surveys and studies other than those mentioned in 1(A) above (d) Surveys and studies other than those mentioned in I(3) above EXPLANATORY STATEMENT 1. INTRODUCTION In the Moraes Report on the protection of minorities and anti-discrimination policies in an enlarged Europe which it recently adopted, the European Parliament noted that ‘equal treatment is a basic right, not a privilege, of all citizens,’ and ‘therefore, that all forms of discrimination must be fought with equal intensity’ A6-0140/2005 of 10.5.2005, recital A. . In fact, since the adoption of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the concept of non-discrimination, which until then had been intrinsically linked to the issue of gender equality, for which an intricate legal battery and abundant case law exists, has been extended to include other parameters, set out in Article 13 of the EC Treaty. The first paragraph of that Article, as subsequently amended by the Treaty of Nice The Treaty of Nice added a second paragraph that enables the Council, acting by a qualified majority, to adopt incentive measures: ‘2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, when the Council adopts Community incentive measures, excluding any harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the Member States, to support action taken by the Member States in order to contribute to the achievement of the objectives referred to in