issuers. Amendment 71 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 1 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1b. The credit rating agency shall inform the entity subject to rating 12 hours before publication of the result of the rating and of the principal grounds on which the rating is based in order to give the entity an opportunity to draw attention to any factual errors. Justification Prior notification of the rated entity has already been included in the IOSCO Code of Conduct as provision 3.7. In this way, incorrect information or misunderstandings can quickly be clarified before inaccurate ratings are traded on the market. Amendment 72 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Credit ratings shall be presented in accordance with the requirements set out in Section D of Annex I. 2. Credit ratings sh all reflect homogeneous criteria within the internal market, avoid regulatory arbitration and be comparable with those issued internationally by related entities . T hey shall be presented in accordance with the requirements set out in Section D of Annex I. Amendment 73 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 3 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (a) credit rating categories that may be attributed to structured finance instruments are clearly differentiated from rating categories that may be used to rate other types of rated entities or financial instruments; (a) credit rating categories that may be attributed to structured finance instruments are clearly differentiated from rating categories that may be used to rate other types of rated entities or financial instruments . Separate rating categories shall be used for structured, complex instruments ; Justification Increased transparency and better protection of investors. Amendment 74 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 5 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. When a credit rating agency issues an unsolicited credit rating it shall state in the credit rating that the rated entity or related third party did not participate in the credit rating process and that the credit rating agency did not have access to the accounts and other relevant internal documents of the rated entity or its related third party. 5. When a credit rating agency issues an unsolicited credit rating it shall state prominently in the credit rating whether or not the rated entity or related third party participate d in the credit rating process and whether the credit rating agency had access to the accounts and other relevant internal documents of the rated entity or its related third party. The rated entity or related third party may require that any reservations be explicitly recorded in the rating and that any such reservation be made available in the information disclosed by the rating agency. Amendment 75 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. A credit rating agency shall document and disclose all the steps, information and factors which have given rise to a rating. Justification Increased transparency and