Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (15 May 2009) A Commission communication COM(2007)275 final. , adopted in 2007, on organ donation and transplantation in the EU identified 3 priority areas of action: improving quality and safety of human organs, increasing organ availability and making transplantation systems more efficient and accessible. In order to respond to these challenges, in December 2008 the Commission adopted a proposal COM(2008)818 final. for a directive on setting basic quality and safety principles for human organs and a 10-point action plan on strengthening cooperation in the field of organ donation. The aim of both these initiatives is to improve the quality and safety of organs across Europe, increase organ availability and make transplant systems more efficient and accessible. These two initiatives aim to assure patients and citizens that the EU and Member States are maximising their efforts to provide high quality and safety transplantation medicine across Europe. In particular, the proposed directive will ensure that the necessary quality and safety structures are put in place across the EU. These will ensure a basic level of quality and safety for all patients and will, therefore, improve the conditions for the cross border exchanges of organs. The proposed framework approach in the directive will deal with the key aspects of organ donation: establishment of national oversight authority or authorities; authorisation of activities; traceability of organs; reporting of serious adverse events and reactions; establishment of national quality programmes; protection of the donor; and ensuring a complete characterisation of the organ so that the transplant team can undertake the appropriate risk assessment. The action plan, strengthening the coordination of Member States in the field, would run for a period of 6 years (2009‑15) and proposes 10 priority actions which Member States should implement in order to respond to the abovementioned challenges. This Action Plan aims to reinforce cooperation between Member States and to complement the directive. Each priority action is complemented by a specific provision in the directive. For example, as regards making transplantation systems more efficient, the action plan proposes a number of priority actions (EU‑wide agreements, procedures to interchange organs, etc.) in order to tackle this challenge. At the same time, the directive complements these actions by specific provisions such as establishment of a competent authority, national quality programmes, registers, etc. Article 152 of the Treaty provides the EU with an opportunity, as well as an obligation, to implement binding measures laying down high standards of quality and safety for the use of blood, organs and substances of human origin. Thus, the Commission has a clear mandate to propose measures to ensure the quality and safety of organ donation and transplantation and therefore to improve public health. Nevertheless, according to the aforementioned article, Community action must respect the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. It is up to each Member State to determine the rules governing healthcare cover under their social security system. It is also up to each Member State, in compliance with Community Law,