Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (25 May 2010) The Commission is aware of the practice of incommunicado detention in Spain. However, the Commission is not in a position to change the current law and practice of Spain as regards this kind of detention in Spain. Article 72 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) provides that it is the Member States themselves that are responsible with regard to the maintenance of law and order and the safeguarding of internal security. The usual rationale for permitting short-term incommunicado or unacknowledged detention is that the detainee would otherwise alert co-conspirators allowing destruction of evidence, flight of accomplices, or other interference that will thwart the criminal investigation. It should be noted that the European Prison Rules of the Council of Europe contain detailed rules about prisoners' rights. The main rule (24.1) about contact with the outside world is that they shall be allowed to communicate with the outside world as often as possible, but (pursuant to rule 24.2) communications and visits may be subject to restrictions and monitoring necessary for the requirements of continuing criminal investigations, maintenance of good order, safety and security, prevention of criminal offences and protection of victims of crime, but such restrictions, including specific restrictions ordered by a judicial authority, shall nevertheless allow an acceptable minimum level of contact. Finally, ill treatment must attain a minimum level of severity if it is to fall within the scope of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. According to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR), the assessment of this minimum is, in the nature of things, relative; it depends on all the circumstances surrounding the case, such as the nature and context of the treatment or punishment, the manner and method of its execution, its duration and its physical or mental effects. The question whether incommunicado detention is allowed or not can therefore not be answered in the abstract. Given the wording of Article 72 TFEU, the subject matter must be considered as coming under the competence of the Member States. Under the Treaty on European Union and the TFEU, the Commission can only intervene where an issue of European Union law is involved.