States the option of allowing retail investors to request execution of their transactions on a regulated market. (2) In recent years more investors have become active in the financial markets and are offered an even more complex wide-ranging set of services and instruments. In view of these developments the legal framework of the Community should encompass the full range of investor-oriented activities. To this end, it is necessary to provide for the degree of harmonisation needed to offer investors a high level of protection and to allow investment firms to provide services throughout the Community, being a Single Market, on the basis of home country supervision. In view of the preceding, Directive 93/22/EEC should be replaced by a new Directive. (3) Due to the increasing dependence of investors on personal recommendations, it is appropriate to include the provision of investment advice as an investment service requiring authorisation. Therefore proportionate and relevant requirements should be imposed on investment advisors to ensure that the content of personal recommendations is not influenced by factors other than the financial situation, investment objectives, knowledge, risk profile and expertise of the client. Those requirements should not apply to the mere provision of information of a general nature on financial instruments, provided that the purpose of that activity is not to help the client conclude or fulfil a contract for an investment service or financial instrument. In granting authorisation to provide investment advice, the competent authority, or the body to which it delegates this responsibility, should be able to take into account any authorisation conditions required for registration as an insurance intermediary which overlap with the requirements laid down in this Directive. (4) It is appropriate to include in the list of financial instruments commodity derivatives which , not being physical spot or forward commodity contracts, are constituted and traded in such a way as to give rise to regulatory issues comparable to traditional financial instruments such as certain futures or options contracts traded on regulated markets or on a multilateral trading facility (MTF) which, even though they may be physically settled, possess the characteristics of financial instruments and swaps which are settled only in cash and where the amounts to be settled are calculated by reference to values of a full range of underlying prices, rates, indices and other measures. In this respect, regard may be had to whether, inter alia, they are cleared and settled through recognised clearing houses, give rise to daily margin calls, are priced in reference to regularly published prices, standard lots, standard delivery dates or standard terms as opposed to the terms of settlement being specified in individual contracts. (5) It is important that financial regulation establish a fair and level playing field for the different forms of intermediaries, both regulated markets and investment firms, offering securities execution services and that fair competition be permitted to thrive in order to ensure further efficiency. The twin objectives of regulation should be to ensure a high quality of execution of investor transactions and to uphold the integrity and overall efficiency of the financial system. A