Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (17 October 2008) The Commission believes that the situation in the health sector in Sierra Leone is worrying, and is helping the Government of Sierra Leone to tackle the problem with several interventions. Budget Support programmes are used as a vehicle for supporting economic and institutional reforms and to support the implementation of the national Poverty Reduction Strategy, especially to ensure equitable access to social services. Indeed, the Commission is linking its budget support disbursements, inter alia , to performance in social services delivery. Education and health are critical sectors in the Government’s overall poverty reduction strategy. In order to monitor poverty alleviation performance, indicators have been chosen for health and primary education that provide a direct measure of the level of service delivery to the population. The Commission has also significantly contributed to the development of the Sierra Leone Health System focusing on primary healthcare at decentralized level and on availability, affordability and quality of pharmaceutical drugs through a dual approach: a reconstruction and rehabilitation effort of health infrastructure linked to a capacity building developmental support to the Ministry of Health and the decentralised health management bodies. In the Agreement signed by the Government of Sierra Leone for the financing of the rehabilitation of the Serabu Hospital, the Government commits itself to the annual allocation of sufficient budgetary resources for the recurrent costs of schools and clinics. The Government of Sierra Leone in turn made it clear to the operators of the hospital, the Catholic Archdiocese of Freetown and Bo, that the Archdiocese would be responsible for equipping and operating the hospital once the rehabilitation works were completed. The Commission informed the Honourable Member of the situation at the time in its reply to her Written Question P‑0783/08 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB/application/home.do?language=EN and is open to discussion in the context of Petition No 193/2008. In any case, the Commission has been active to ensure the success of the project and has been in contact with the main stakeholders involved. In March 2008, the Commission's Delegation organised meetings and a field visit to address the problems. The rehabilitated hospital was constructed according to appropriate and agreed upon plans and norms, and was handed over to the beneficiaries, the Archdiocese, on 26 March 2008. The works have indeed been fully accepted by the Archdiocese. Upon request of the Archdiocese, in addition to the previously agreed infrastructure facilities, a cafeteria, a nurses' hostel, the nurses' training school and training school offices were built. With civil works of this scope it is to be expected that corrections have to be made during or immediately after the reconstruction phase. The field mission noted that some repairs needed to be made on the operation theatre, and the government and the Commission accepted to finance small additional works to solve this problem, ensuring the hospital therefore complies fully with medical norms. The Commission will continue to make every effort to ensure that all those responsible for the hospital fulfil their contractual obligations so that it can deliver improved healthcare to the