an international or non-governmental organisation, and involving in any case at least two Member States or at least one Member State and one other state which may either be an acceding or a candidate country , under the conditions set out in the annual work programmes; or (c) support to the activities of non-governmental organisations or other entities pursuing an aim of general European interest in accordance with the general objectives of the programme under the conditions set out in the annual work programmes. (d) operating grants to co-finance expenditure associated with the permanent work programme of the Conference of the European Constitutional Courts and the Association of the Councils of State and Supreme Administrative Jurisdictions of the European Union, which maintains certain databases providing for a European-wide collection of national judgments relating to the implementation of Community law, insofar as the expenditure is incurred in pursuing an objective of general European interest by promoting exchanges of views and experience on matters concerning the jurisprudence, organisation and functioning of their members in the performance of their judicial and/or advisory functions with regard to Community law. Article 5 Participation of third countries 1. The following countries, hereinafter referred to as « participating countries » may participate in the actions of the programme: the acceding countries, candidate countries and the Western Balkan countries included in the stabilisation and association process, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the association agreements or their additional protocols relating to participation in Community programmes concluded or to be concluded with those countries; 2. Actions under Article 4 may associate authorities, bodies or non-governmental organisations of countries not participating in this programme pursuant to paragraph 1, where this would contribute to the preparation for accession of the countries referred to in paragraph 1 or serve the objectives of the actions concerned. Article 6 Target Groups The programme is targeted at European Union citizens, citizens of participating countries or third country nationals legally residing within the European Union territory and civil society associations, among other groups active in promoting the objectives of this programme. Article 7 Access to the programme 1. Access to this programme shall be open , inter alia, to institutions and public or private organisations, universities, research institutes, non-governmental organisations, national, regional and local authorities, international organisations and other not‑for‑profit organisations established in the European Union or in one of the countries participating, pursuant to Article 5. 2. The programme shall permit joint activities with international organisations competent in the field of fundamental rights, such as the Council of Europe, on the basis of joint contributions and in accordance with the various rules prevailing in each institution or organisation, for the achievement of the objectives of this programme. Article 8 Types of intervention 1. Community funding may take the following legal forms: – grants, – public procurement contracts. 2. Community grants shall be awarded further to calls for proposals, save in duly substantiated exceptional cases as foreseen in Financial Regulation applicable to the General budget of the European Communities and shall be provided through operating grants