6(1)(b). However, a Member State may authorise a drive r to drive within its territory before obtaining a CPC, when he is undergoing a national vocational training course of at least 6 months, for a maximum period of three years. In the context of this vocational training course, the tests referred to in points (i) and (ii) may be completed in stages. b) a system of periodic training In accordance with section 4 of Annex I, periodic training involves compulsory course attendance. It shall be certified by a CPC as provided for in Article 8(1). 2. Member States may also provide for a system of accelerated initial qualification so that a driver may drive in the cases referred to in Article 5(2)(a)(ii) and (b) and in Article 5(3)(a)(i) and (b). In accordance with section 3 of Annex I, the accelerated initial qualification shall involve compulsory course attendance. It shall conclude with a test. Upon successful completion of the test, the qualification shall be certified by a CPC as provided for in Article 6(2). 3. Member States may exempt drivers who have obtained the certificate of professional competence provided for in Directive 96/26/EC Council Directive 96/26/EC of 29 April 1996 on admission to the occupation of road haulage operator and road passenger transport operator and mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications intended to facilitate for these operators the right to freedom of establishment in national and international transport operations (OJ L 124, 23.5.1996, p. 1). Directive last amended by Directive 98/76/EC (OJ L 277, 14.10.1998, p. 17). from the tests referred to in paragraph 1(a)(i) and (ii) and in paragraph 2 in the subjects covered by the test provided for in that Directive and, where appropriate, from attending the part of the course corresponding thereto. Article 4 Acquired rights The following drivers shall be exempted from the requirement to obtain an initial qualification: a) drivers who hold a category D1, D1+E, D or D+E licence, or a licence recognised as equivalent, issued no later than two years after the final date for the transposition of this Directive; b) drivers who hold a category C1, C1+E, C or C+E licence, or a licence recognised as equivalent, issued no later than three years after the final date for the transposition of this Directive. Article 5 Initial qualification 1. Access to an initial qualification shall not require the corresponding driving licence to be obtained beforehand. 2. Drivers of a vehicle intended for the carriage of goods may drive: a) from the age of 18: i) a vehicle in licence categories C and C+E, provided they hold a CPC as referred to in Article 6(1); ii) a vehicle in licence categories C1 and C1+E, provided they hold a CPC as referred to in Article 6(2); b) from the age of 21, a vehicle in licence categories C and C+E, provided they hold a CPC as referred to in Article 6(2). 3. Drivers of a vehicle intended for the carriage of passengers may drive: a) from the age of 21: i) a vehicle