Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (1 September 2006) The Commission shares the Honourable Member’s concerns about the effects of violent video games on minors. Protecting minors from harmful content is of paramount importance. The protection of minors remains a shared responsibility between parents, industry and regulators. Rating and labelling of content combined with media literacy and technological solutions are key tools to address the protection of minors. Through legislative proposals and other actions, the Commission seeks to ensure the best protection possible for our children in accordance with its responsibilities under the EC Treaty. Video games in general are covered by the Commission’s amended proposal for a recommendation of Parliament and of the Council on the protection of minors and human dignity and the right of reply in relation to the competitivenes of the European audiovisual and information services industry of 20 January 2006 COM(2006)31 final. . The proposal addresses, inter alia , actions with regard to media literacy and to cooperation among bodies which deal with rating or classification. Furthermore, the proposed update of the Television without Frontiers (TVWF) Directive Council Directive 89/552/EEC of 3 October 1989 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities, OJ L 298, 17.10.1989. also covers video games which correspond to the definition of audiovisual media services. As regards video games, the Pan-European Game Information (PEGI) age rating system was established in 2003 to help European parents make informed decisions on interactive games, such as ensuring that minors are not exposed to games that are unsuitable for their particular age group. PEGI is supported by the major console manufacturers, as well as by publishers and developers of interactive games throughout Europe, and society representatives, such as consumers, parents and religious groups have been involved in the setting up of the system. It should be noted that PEGI supports — as a classification system — informed adult choice but it does not censor content, which is in line with the Commission’s view that the protection of minors and human dignity must be carefully balanced with the fundamental right to freedom of expression, as laid down in the Charter on Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The Commission, in the framework of the Safer Internet Plus programme, co-funds the ‘PEGI Online’ project which aims to extend this approach to online electronic games. As regards media literacy, a ‘media literacy expert’ group has been set up by the Commission this year with the aim to analyse and define media literacy objectives and trends, to highlight and promote good practices at European level and to propose actions with regard to the promotion of the protection of children, young people and human dignity in the media, and to supporting the creation of a media environment appropriate for citizens’ social, educational and cultural needs. The Commission intends to use the findings of this group to launch a public consultation on the different issues referred to above and to possibly report on