15 December 1999 JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure by the following Members: Maij-Weggen, Ferrer, Giannakou-Koutsikou, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Gröner, Díez González, Theorin, on behalf of the PSE Group, Mrs Thors, on behalf of the ELDR Group, Evans, Hautala, Sörensen, Auroi, Breyer, Buitenweg, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance Eriksson, Frahm, González Alvarez, Morgantini, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, replacing the motions by the following groups: PSE ( B5-0342/99 ) ELDR ( B5-0351/99 ) PPE-DE ( B5-0370/99 ) Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance ( B5-0379/99 ) GUE/NGL ( B5-0383/99 ) on voting rights for women in Kuwait The European Parliament, A. Noting that Article 29 of the Kuwait constitution reads that 'all citizens are equal before the law, regardless of gender, religion, race or ethnic background', B. Noting that Kuwait is a signatory to the International Convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, C. Noting that, since the Constitution was promulgated in 1961, the rights of women to vote and stand for election have never been granted, D. Noting that His Highness the Emir had submitted a decree to the Kuwait Legislative Assembly aimed at giving women the right to vote and stand for election in parliamentary and municipal elections from 2003 and that this decree was rejected by the Legislative Assembly on November 23, 1999, E. Noting that at a second attempt the same Assembly narrowly rejected a bill of similar import on November 30, 1999 by 32 to 30, with 2 abstentions, 1. Voices deep disappointment in its dismay at the decisions taken by the National Assembly of Kuwait, which prevents Kuwaiti female citizens from exercising an elementary right; expresses its solidarity with the women of Kuwait and encourages efforts to make the population more aware of the issue; 2. Calls on the Parliament of Kuwait to adopt a bill granting women full political rights, including the right to vote and to stand for election; 3. Congratulates the Kuwait Government for its recent nomination, the first time ever, of a woman – Mrs Rasha al-Sabah – to a position in the Government; 4. Instructs its President to make all possible efforts, in agreement with the Speaker of the National Assembly, to organise a meeting in Kuwait of the EP delegation for relations with Mashreq and the Gulf States with a representation of Kuwait parliamentarians to debate issues of common interest as soon as possible, including women’s rights; 5. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, Emir Cheikh Jaber el Ahmed as Sabah and the National Assembly of Kuwait.