Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (16 May 2011) The Commission is aware that road transport plays an important role in the internal market. The Commission is also aware that a number of divergent national restrictions on the driving of heavy vehicles are in place in several Member States. This is because there are currently no harmonised Union rules on restrictions on the driving of heavy goods vehicles on weekends and public holidays. The Commission acknowledges that divergent national rules may cause practical problems for haulage operators and professional drivers. This is why, in 1998, the Commission submitted to the Council a proposal for a directive on a transparent system of harmonised rules for restrictions on heavy goods vehicles involved in international transport COM(1998)115 final. . The proposal proved to be controversial and was rejected by several Member States. The Commission submitted an amended proposal in 2000 COM(2003)473 final. but this amended proposal also failed to attract sufficient political support from Member States and was finally withdrawn in 2003. In 2010 the Commission conducted a study http://ec.europa.eu/transport/road/studies/doc/2010_12_driving_restrictions_for_heavy_goods_vehicles_in_the_european_union.pdf on driving bans which came to the conclusion that the diverging national rules on driving restrictions do not create a significant problem provided that the respective information is made available to the interested parties sufficiently in advance so that they can plan their operations accordingly. The lack of harmonised rules can to some extent be counterbalanced by improved, clear and consistent communication of the existing driving restrictions amongst others through and in addition to the relevant public authorities also road haulage organisations who have an important role to play in this communication process. Therefore, the Commission has currently no plans to launch a new harmonisation initiative in this area. Concerning the Austrian driving restrictions to which the Honourable Member refers, it should be noted that these are not of a discriminatory nature, as they apply to national and foreign vehicles alike. The Commission considers that, as the law stands, the Austrian driving restrictions for heavy goods vehicles on weekends do not infringe EU‑law.