Khun Htun Oo and Sao Nyunt Lwin, Chairman and General Secretary respectively of the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy, and Sao Hso Ten, Chairman of the Shan State Peace Council, 2. condemns the continuing restrictions placed on the National League for Democracy and other political parties which prevented them from participating in the recently reconvened national convention, 3. expresses its grave concern at the ongoing systematic violation of human rights, including civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of the people of Myanmar, in particular discrimination and violations suffered by persons belonging to ethnic minorities, women and children; 4. is deeply shocked by a draft report from "Christian Solidarity Worldwide" international President Dr Martin Panter presenting evidence of chemical weapons use during an incident which is alleged to have happened near Burma's North Western border with Thailand on February 15, 2005; 5. deeply regrets the fact that the government of Myanmar has not yet undertaken all the relevant measures to allow joint government of the Union of Myanmar - International Labor Organisation Plan of Action for the elimination of Forced Labor pratices in Myanmar to come into force; 6. calls upon the government of Myanmar to restore democracry and respect the results of the 1990 elections by, inter alia, releasing immediately and unconditionnaly the leadership of the national league for democracy, including General Secretary Aung San Suu Kyi and members of the National League for democracy detained after 30 may 2003, as well as the recently arrested Shan leadership; 7. also calls upon the government of Myanmar to pursue through dialogue and peaceful means to immediate suspension and permanent end of conflict with all ethnic groups in Myanmar; 8. welcomes the common position adopted by the Council on 25 April 2005 and invites the Council and the Commission to do its utmost in order to refuse any cooperation with Asean if Burma refuses to relinquish its claim to the chairmanship of Asean in July 2006 until the human rights situation in Myanmar has not yet seriously improved; 9. Insists that the EU's Common Policy on Burma should be strengthened immediately and, in addition to the measures proposed by the Council, should also ban the import of goods and services from enterprises owned by the military, military personnel and their associates and ban the import of strategically important goods from sectors of the economy under monopoly, such as gems and timber, and furthermore calls on travel agencies and independent tour operators in the EU to stop promoting and selling tourist visits to Burma; 10. invites the UN Secretary General to mandate his organisation in order to realise an inquiry on the facts reported by the international NGO "Christian Solidarity Worldwise" on the use of chemical weapons by the Brumese army against the Karenni minority; 11. instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the High Representative for the CSFP, the UN Secretary General and the governemnet of Myanmar.