point 3.1 a (new) 3.1 a. developing a specific action to promote, by means of public awareness/information campaigns, an improved diet and eating habits which are better suited to the needs of the human body; Amendment 53 Annex, point 3.2 3.2. analysing the situation and developing, if necessary , strategies on socio- economic health determinants, for instance in order to identify and combat health inequalities; 3.2. analysing the situation and developing strategies on social and economic health determinants, in order to identify and combat inequalities in access to health, and to assess the impact of social and economic factors (such as working and housing conditions, etc.) on health; Amendment 54 Annex, point 3.3 3.3. analysing the situation and developing strategies on health determinants related to the environment; 3.3. analysing the situation and developing strategies on health determinants related to the environment, in particular assessing the impact of environmental pollution on human health and identifying diseases which are closely linked to environmental problems; Amendment 55 Annex, point 3.5 a (new) 3.5 a. developing and coordinating relevant training activities related to the above measures. Amendment 56 Annex, point 4.1 4.1. Community assistance may be provided to support the activities referred to in Article 3 , paragraph 2(a) . 4.1. Community assistance may be provided to support the activities referred to in Article 3. The actions to be taken may be funded by service contracts following calls for tender (which shall not exceed 50% of total budget) or by subsidies for joint financing with other sources. In the latter case the amount of Community financial assistance may not exceed 80% of the expenditure actually incurred by the recipient. To support projects in candidate countries, the Community may finance up to 100% of costs. Amendment 57 Annex, point 4.3a (new) 4.3 a. Within one year of the date of entry into force of this Decision, the Commission shall take the necessary measures to prepare, adopt and implement the changes and practical arrangements required for the implementation of the general objectives of the programme, together with appropriate structural arrangements to set up a coordinating centre for comprehensive and ongoing coordination of the programme. Expenditure on technical and administrative assistance in respect of the structural arrangements and activities arising therefrom shall be met from the overall budget of the programme. For this purpose, the committee referred to in Article 9 shall be consulted.