committed in breach of the abovementioned regulations are returned to the Framework Programme and earmarked essentially for the training of research staff and scientific advisory activities. Justification This should be made clear, given the budget restrictions affecting the seventh framework programme. Amendment 3 Article 3, paragraph 1, introductory part The overall amount for the implementation of the seventh framework programme for the period 2007 to 2011 shall be EUR 3092 million . That amount shall be distributed as follows (in EUR million): The indicative overall amount for implementation of the seventh framework programme shall be EUR 2751 million for the period of 5 years starting on 1 January 2007. That amount shall be distributed as follows (in EUR million): Justification Standard amendment in order to emphasize that the amounts proposed are subject to confirmation by a possible multiannual financial framework . Amendment 4 Article 3, paragraph 1, table a) Fusion energy research 2159 a) Fusion energy research 1947 b) Nuclear Fission and radiation protection 394 b) Nuclear Fission and radiation protection 287 c) Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre 539 c) Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre 517 Amendment 5 Article 3, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. Within the amount foreseen for fusion energy research, not less than EUR 900 million will be reserved to activities, other than the realisation of the research infrastructure ITER, listed in Annex I. Justification A full and effective exploitation of the ITER device, once it is built, will require a strong commitment by an adequate number of skilled European scientists and engineers as well as an high level knowledge of the Physics behind; thus the accompanying programme must be adequately supported, with an earmarked appropriation, out of the overall budget on Fusion. Continuity with the research activities in FP6 requires the accompanying programme, carried out by the Associations, be financed with not less than EUR million 900. Amendment 6 Article 3, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Commission shall provide prior information to the budgetary authority whenever it intends to depart from the breakdown of expenditure set out in the remarks and Annex to the annual general budget of the European Union. Justification To improve the financial monitoring of Community financed research activities, the rapporteur considers that the Commission should inform the budgetary authority on the implementation of specific programmes on a regular basis and provide prior information whenever it intends to depart from the breakdown of expenditure stated in the general budget. Amendment 7 Article 5 All the research activities carried out under the seventh Framework Programme shall be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles. All the research activities carried out under the seventh Framework Programme shall be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles , giving priority consideration to safety aspects. Justification Ethical principles and safety aspects are substantially complementary in this context. Amendment 8 Article 6, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 The Commission shall communicate the conclusions thereof, accompanied by its observations, to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the