detail in a protocol annexed to the Constitution. Finally, regarding 'the flexibility clause' (Article 16), he indicated the possibility of transferring additional powers to the Union would be subject to a more formal procedure than that currently set out in Article 308 involving in particular better information for national parliaments. The procedure would also require the agreement of the European Parliament. The President invited the members to table their amendments. A number of them asked for more time and the deadline was accordingly set at 17 February. The amendments can be obtained from the Convention's website ( http://european-convention.eu.int ). The articles and their amendments will be discussed in the plenary meeting of 27 and 28 February and possibly in a 'think tank' for issues requiring more in-depth debate. Although the matter had not yet been discussed, three members indicated reservations regarding the articles presented. Mr Peter HAIN (Gvt, UK) expressed 'concern', taking the view that efforts to achieve agreement within the Convention and the working groups was not reflected in the draft articles. Mr John TOMLINSON (Pt, UK) and Mr Jens-Peter BONDE (EP, EDD, DK), expressed the same criticism, the latter fearing increased centralisation within the Union and accusing the Praesidium of 'enlightened despotism'. Report by the 'social Europe' working group Mr Giorgos KATIFORIS (Gvt, GR), who presided over the deliberations of the working group on social affairs, took the view that the report (Doc. CONV 516/1/03) constituted a 'message to the public' showing that, at the very least, members agreed on the objectives to be achieved despite differences of opinion on detail concerning these values and objectives. The group advocated the inclusion in the Union's values of human dignity, social justice, solidarity and equality, in particular equality between men and women. A number of objectives are also advocated: measures to stimulate full employment, social justice, social peace, sustainable development, economic social and territorial cohesion, a social market economy, quality of life at the work place, a high level of social protection, health care and social services .... .Concerning services in the general interest or public services, Mr KATIFORIS indicated that it was necessary to create positive legislation in these areas 'rather than treat them as exceptions to the underlying philosophy of the single market'. The competences of the Union regarding social affairs should remain unchanged outside the field of public health, where the group sought to extend its remit to serious cross-border risks, transmissible disease, bioterrorism and WHO agreements, Aside from that, it was above all a question of defining more closely its existing powers. Concerning decision-making or coordination methods, the group widely supported the inclusion of the 'open method of coordination' within the Constitution, but not at the expense of decision-making procedures already applicable. Increased use of the qualified majority vote was more controversial however. The members sought at least to retain the compromise reached in the Treaty of Nice, requiring a unanimous decision to hold a majority vote ... . By way of compromise, a number of members proposed the introduction of a 'superqualified majority vote'. The group finally