elected to take their pension benefits in a different form ... but at the lower market rate ruling at the time. The Board thought that this strategy was legal; the Institute of Actuaries and Treasury Insurance Directorate agreed." (WE29) As a result of complaints from policyholders, who argued that the differential bonus policy rendered the GAR option valueless, EL initiated a legal ‘representative action’ in the High Court to resolve the issue, which became known as the 'Hyman litigation', ending with the final House of Lords ruling of 20 July 2000 . "The case ended up in the House of Lords, which ruled that ELAS could not apply a differential bonus policy to any class of policyholder, whether GAR or non-GAR. Those GAR policyholders who had exercised their GAR option between January 1994 and 20 July 2000 had to be given the same final bonus as the GAR policyholders who had not taken the GAR option and then the GAR had to be applied to the revised terminal policy value. Crucially the House of Lords also ruled that the cost of meeting the GAR liabilities could not be ‘ring fenced’ within the class of GAR policyholders." (WE29) Following this ruling, the total cost to EL was estimated to be 25% of GAR policy values, or £1.5 billion this sum comprising £200m to cover the lower GAR pension payouts between January 1994 and 20 July 2000 and £1.3bn for correcting future shortfalls. . This sum had to be taken from the single with-profits fund that invested both GAR and non-GAR premiums. " On 20 July 2000 25% of the with-profits fund represented GAR policyholders’ claims and 75% non-GAR policyholders’ claims. So the House of Lords ruling meant that an ‘economic transfer’ of claims of £1.1 bn (75% of £1.5bn) from non-GAR to GAR policyholders had to be implemented."(WE29) WE-CONF2 underlined how "the GAR problem was compounded by the fact that historically the Society had operated a policy of maximizing bonuses and not building up a reserve. The Society's argument was that commercially a reserve of only £50m was required, based on the fact that... only a trivial percentage of GAR policyholders exercised their GAR option. The theoretical exposure was calculated at £170m." see also para.4.15.3 of the Baird Report (WE17). It also reminded that EL's statutory accounts for 1998 and 1999 included " provisions of £200m for 'any additional liabilities which may arise through clients choosing to exercise GAR options under their policies'. It is important to bear in mind that these reserves were not made against failure in the Hyman litigation, they were against liabilities expected even if the Society was wholly successful in that litigation." It appears that EL failed to react to market developments by not providing any consistent hedging or cover against the risk of GAR optioned being taken or against defeat in the Hyman litigation. In 1999 EL took out a financial reinsurance over £700 million to cover immediate payments required on the exercise of GAR options, "but this reinsurance was never intended to be claimed on. By