months, verify the statements of support provided on the basis of sample checks, and deliver to the organiser a certificate in accordance with the model set out in Annex VII, certifying the number of valid statements of support for that Member State. The percentage of invalid signatures in the sample will be deducted from the overall number of statements of support. A certificate will only be issued if the remaining number of statements of support exceeds one million. Justification This article aims to make verification faster. If for example an ECI raises 1.5 million signatories the verifying authority may randomly check 5000 samples taken form the whole. If it results from those 5000 that 500 (or 10%) are false, incomplete or non-verifiable, then it may be extrapolated onto the entire collection of signatures, assuming that 10% of the 1.5 million signatories are false. Moreover, such a sample-check correction system also counters the argument put forth by the Commission that the ID number is needed for a thorough check of validity of the signatories. Amendment 48 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 1 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment a. publish the citizens' initiative without delay on its website; a. publish the citizens' initiative without delay on its website , in all the official languages of the Union ; Justification All the EU citizens should be able to understand the content of the proposed citizens' initiative in order to support it, after its approval by the European Commission. This could be achieved only if the initiatives are translated to all the official languages of the European Union, upon publication on the website of the European Commission. Amendment 49 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 1 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment b. examine the citizens' initiative and, within 4 months , set out in a communication its conclusions on the initiative, the action it intends to take, if any, and its reasons for doing so . b. examine the citizens' initiative and, within three months , set out in a communication its conclusions on the initiative, as well as the appropriate proposal on the matter where citizens have indicated that a legal act is required. Should the Commission decide to take some alternative action , or not to take any action , it shall state its reasons for its decision in a communication . Justification In order to create a stronger duty for the Commission to give a follow up to citizens' initiatives. To ensure and maintain high levels of citizen participation, it is crucial to count on a quick procedure. It is therefore considered that the European Commission shall be able to fully formulate its own conclusions about the initiative and the actions it intends to undertake within a period of three months. Amendment 50 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The communication referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall be notified to the organiser of the citizens' initiative as well as to