ORAL QUESTION WITH DEBATE O-0001/06 pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure by Roberto Musacchio , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Caroline Lucas and Alain Lipietz , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Glyn Ford , Giovanni Berlinguer and Béatrice Patrie to the Commission Subject: Fourth World Water Forum in Mexico City (16 to 22 March 2006) The Fourth World Water Forum, a platform for discussing and shaping world political decisions on the management of water and its resources, will be held in Mexico City from 16 to 22 March 2006. It is organised every three years by the World Water Council (WWC) and has met in Morocco (1997), the Netherlands (2000) and Japan (2003). With no democratic accountability, the World Water Forum is essentially a key-decision-making-body, inspired the World Bank, that sees itself as a centre for the worldwide coordination of the future management of global water resources. As part of the Forum in Mexico City, a 'Ministerial Conference' has been called for 21 and 22 March 2006, along with regional discussions, divided by continent. Regional 'Consultation Networks' and 'Operational Committees' have been set up, through which global water policy will be implemented, bypassing democratic debate and citizens, in Europe and elsewhere. According to official information given by the WWC, the European Commission is fully involved in the proceedings in Mexico City. With what mandate, awarded by whom and following which political debate in the European Parliament will the Commission participate in the Forum in Mexico? What political positions regarding water will the Commission be defending at the Fourth World Water Forum? Does the Commission intend to defend the standpoint, formally adopted by the European Parliament at its vote on 11 March 2004 on the Miller report on Internal Market Strategy - Priorities 2003-2006, that 'since water is a shared resource of mankind, the management of water resources should not be subject to the rules of the internal market'? What is the Commission's strategy for promoting access to water as a fundamental human right? Is the Commission in favour of drafting an international treaty, at UN level, on access to water as a human right?