Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (27 October 2011) The Commission and High Representative relentlessly promote human rights and attach great importance to the UN’s principles preventing sexual exploitation and abuse and thus strongly support measures and strategies to end this type of violence. Together with the UN and the African Union, the European Union has been actively taking steps to prevent sexual exploitation and abuse by peacekeepers. The European Union strongly supports UN peacekeeping and will continue to be a close partner in this endeavour, while promoting and strengthening good practices. The UN adopted a ‘zero-tolerance policy’ in 2003 and subsequently implemented a series of reforms to prevent UN peacekeeping personnel assigned to and humanitarian missions from engaging in sexual exploitation and abuse. Following the UN General Assembly Resolution of 15 April 2003, ‘Investigation into sexual exploitation of refugees by aid workers in West Africa’, the UN Secretary-General adopted the UN Report ‘Special measures for protection from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse’ (ST/SGB/2003/13). All personnel is legally bound by the standards of the Secretary-General’s 2003 bulletin. The rules laid down there, applicable to all UN staff, define sexual exploitation and sexual abuse as acts of serious misconduct which therefore provide grounds for disciplinary measures, including summary dismissal. The Executive Committees on Humanitarian Affairs and Peace and Security (ECHA/ECPS) United Nations and Nongovernmental Organisation Task Force on Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse was established in February 2005 in order to prevent sexual exploitation and abuse and improve awareness and response to such acts. Since 2005, training on preventing sexual exploitation and abuse has been mandatory for all UN peacekeeping personnel. In early 2008, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations (DPKO) initiated mission-customised information campaigns and strategies to combat commercial sexual exploitation in Cote D’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Haiti, Liberia, Sudan and East Timor. Civilian managers and military commanders must implement the UN’s programmes and policies to eliminate sexual exploitation and abuse. The UN’s victim assistance strategy (GA 62/214) authorises UN missions to provide victims with medical treatment, counselling, social support, legal services, or material care. General reporting and a Special Measures Report on Measures for Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse is compiled yearly. The European Union’s missions seek to be a model for international peacekeeping and monitoring operations especially with respect to women, peace and security. The Generic Standards of Behaviour for European Union peacekeeping missions specify that sexual exploitation and sexual abuse violate universally recognised international legal norms and standards, constitute acts of serious misconduct and represent grounds for serious disciplinary measures. For instance, one of EUFOR RD Congo’s explicit objectives was to prevent all cases of sexual exploitation and abuse. All Operation EUFOR RD Congo participants received a Soldier’s Card training on its contents. EUFOR personnel are obliged to report any concerns regarding sexual exploitation and abuse through the established reporting mechanisms. The zero tolerance policy, supported by a strong information policy and adequate training, has probably been central to there being no reported cases of sexual exploitation and abuse in