regime of the SPE and the appropriate dimension on the Internal Market, to create transparency for the market and to help coordination among national authorities. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment An SPE shall have its registered office and its central administration or principal place of business in the Community . An SPE shall have its registered office and its central administration or principal place of business in a single Member State . An SPE shall not be under any obligation to have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. Justification The possibility of separating the place of the registered office and the place of the central administration of an SPE brings with it the potential for abuse to the disadvantage of the company’s creditors and permits circumvention of social and legal safeguards in place in the Member States. In particular, co-determination can be circumvented by choosing a registered office in a Member State that does not provide for employee participation. Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment An SPE shall not be under any obligation to have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. An SPE shall have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. Justification Diese Bestimmung orientiert sich am Acquis communautaire, wie insbesondere an Art 7 SE-VO. Durch die Einführung gemeinschaftsrechtlicher Gesellschaftsformen sind Beschränkungen, wie diese vor der EuGH-Judikatur zu Centros, Inspire-Art usw. bestanden, weggefallen. Daher sollte es bei der Regelung wie in Art. 7 der SE-VO bleiben, zumal auch eine Sitzverlegung in Kapitel VII der SPE-Verordnung geregelt ist. Für eine Trennung der Sitze kann es bei Neugründung keinen anderen Grund geben, als unliebsame Bestimmungen eines Mitgliedsstaates, in der die tatsächliche Geschäftsausübung erfolgen soll, zu entkommen. Das SPE-Statut soll aber gerade die Gründung einer Gesellschaft nach weitgehend gleichen Rechtsvorschriften in allen Mitgliedsstaaten ermöglichen. Amendment 19 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The registered office of the SPE and the central administration or principal place of business shall be disclosed in the database referred to in Article 4c and on the SPE's website. Justification It is important to guarantee disclosure at European level for the SPE established in the EU in order to guarantee consistency between the specific regime of the SPE and the appropriate dimension on the Internal Market. Amendment 20 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 2 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Member States shall not require any particulars and documents to be supplied upon application for the registration of a SPE other than the following : 2. Member States shall require only the following particulars and documents to be supplied upon application for the registration of an SPE: Justification Clarification. Amendment 21 Proposal for a