Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (5 February 2008) 1. On 7 December 2007 the Commission gave its opinion on an investment for the establishment of a new nuclear power plant at Belene in the form of a Point of View and communicated it to the Bulgarian authorities. Based on the Council Decision 77/270/Euratom of 29 March 1977 OJ L 88, 6.4.1977 . the Member States can apply for a Euratom loan for the purpose of financing investment projects relating to the industrial production of electricity in nuclear power stations. Up to now neither the Commission nor the European Investment Bank have received any request to grant a loan for construction of the new nuclear power plant at Belene. Euratom loans are funded by the Commission borrowing funds onto the international capital market. As a consequence no financial support is allocated from the Community budget to nuclear investments nor is there any rebates offered on market interest rates. 2 and 3. In compliance with the relevant provisions of the acquis, every project to construct a new nuclear power plant has to undergo an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) following in particular the procedures established under the EC Directive 85/337/EEC Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, OJ L 175, 5.7.1985. on the EIA. Pursuant to Article 3 of the directive, the environmental impact assessment shall identify, describe and assess in an appropriate manner, in the light of each individual case, the direct and indirect effects of the project on different environmental components, including water. In the particular case of Belene, the competent Bulgarian authorities are responsible for carrying out the EIA. Bulgaria conducted an EIA in 2004. At the end of 2007, the Commission sent a letter to the Bulgarian authorities requesting the relevant information in order to verify that the content of the 2004 EIA is comparable to the one that Member States have to perform under the abovementioned directive. 4. The reactor to be built — the AES92 — is a pressurised water reactor based on VVER technology. Compared to previous VVER 1000 Russian reactor types in operation, the AES92 is designed to comprise advanced technology passive safety systems and in compliance with European Utility Requirements (EUR) for Light Water Reactors in the EU The EUR document is a nuclear power plant specification written by a group of potential investors in electricity generation in Europe. It is not a regulatory type of design safety standard on an EU‑wide level. .