FOS and the FSA. This is dealt with in detail in WE 83 Pages 12-17. : Among other things, the MoU points out that " each is operationally independent and has distinct functions ", it summarises the respective responsibilities of the FSA and the FOS and provides a framework for cooperation. It also contains provisions on information-sharing between the two bodies. In particular, the FOS has " a responsibility to inform the FSA, where it sees indications of issues which may have regulatory implications ". Furthermore, it states that " where the FSA considers that issues of regulatory relevance have arisen that may also be under consideration as disputes before the ombudsman, it will alert the FOS to the issues and discuss any proposed regulatory action ". The MoU provides that " the FSA and the FOS will decide on how best to communicate with consumers and with firms where the circumstances of a complaint, or complaints, give rise to regulatory action by the FSA and where it is likely that steps will be taken to address the generality of problems and concerns ... ". The topics of the FOS's budget, financial instruments and income setting are also dealt with by the MoU. Finally, the MoU provides that " all directors of the FOS are to be appointed, and are liable to removal from office, by the FSA ", whereas " the terms of appointment of each Director must be such to secure his independence from the FSA in the operation of the scheme ". The FOS is to make a full report to the FSA at least once a year. b.) Treatment of Equitable Life complaints Evidence suggests that the number of cases referred to the FOS amount to several thousand (see for instance WE 14 Page 33. ). The FOS itself states in its memorandum to the committee that it " has received approximately 2700 complaints involving GAR related issues " and that " approximately 1200 of these complaints have now been resolved ". In addition, " about 400 complaints [concerning managed pensions] are currently pending with FOS " (WE 27 Pages 4 and 5. ). Evidence submitted by Mr MERRICKS, on the occasion of the committee's visit to London on 16 October 2006 (WE 56), suggests that the FOS has dealt with " over 6000 complaints about Equitable Life " which would be " a smaller number than we have handled about some other UK life companies ". Some 2700 of these are GAR-related. He further indicates that 1843 complaints have been 'resolved'. In WE 90 the FOS clarifies that all of the 1843 'resolved' complaints were GAR-related. Of the 'resolved' complaints 917 were 'upheld', 889 were 'rejected' and 37 'not eligible'. There were at the time 930 complaints pending. A total of 50 complaints were Penrose-related and not therefore investigated (see below). Latest figures submitted by the FOS See WE 90. indicate that by 31 March 2007 7377 complaints have been completed and 752 are still pending. Awards of compensation have been made in 2087 of these complaints.