{ "context": [ [ "Jesse W. Rankin", [ "Dr. Jesse Willis Rankin (1839 near Tallahassee, Florida - February 25, 1892 in Atlanta) was a leading Atlanta businessman of the 19th century.", " He cofounded the S. S. S. Company along with Charles T. Swift, which would become at one point the country's largest patent medicine company (its namesake \"S. S. S. Tonic\" is still in production).", " He also cofounded and for a time led the Metropolitan Street Railroad which brought horsecar and later electric streetcar lines to the Washington-Rawson and Grant Park neighborhoods and to Clark Atlanta University." ] ], [ "John Von Ohlen", [ "John Von Ohlen (born 13 May 1941 Indianapolis) is an American jazz drummer, bandleader, and recording artist, widely known as having been the drummer for Woody Herman in 1967 and 1969, then with Stan Kenton from 1970 to 1972." ] ], [ "Blue Wisp Big Band", [ "Founded in January, 1980 by drummer John Von Ohlen and trumpeter Don Johnson, the Blue Wisp Big Band got its start in and its name from the late Blue Wisp Jazz Club.", " Von Ohlen, a native of Indianapolis, moved to the Cincinnati area after many years on the road playing with world class jazz orchestras, most notably those of Stan Kenton and Woody Herman." ] ], [ "Frank Tiberi", [ "Frank Tiberi (born December 4, 1928) is the leader of the Woody Herman Orchestra.", " He was hand-picked by Woody Herman shortly before Herman's death, to lead the band, and he has been doing it since 1987.", " He plays the alto and tenor saxophone, clarinet, flute, and the bassoon.", " He has been performing and recording since the age of thirteen.", " Tiberi has toured with Benny Goodman and Urbie Green and has played with Dizzy Gillespie." ] ], [ "Ebony Concerto (Stravinsky)", [ "Igor Stravinsky wrote the Ebony Concerto in 1945 (finishing the score on December 1) for the Woody Herman band known as the First Herd.", " It is one in a series of compositions commissioned by the bandleader/clarinetist featuring solo clarinet, and the score is dedicated to him.", " It was first performed on March 25, 1946 in Carnegie Hall in New York City, by Woody Herman's Band, conducted by Walter Hendl." ] ], [ "The Auburn Knights Orchestra", [ "The Auburn Knights Orchestra is a jazz and swing big band based out of Auburn, Alabama, home to Auburn University, and is thought to be one of the oldest big band organizations in the world.", " Formed in 1930 at what was then known as API (Alabama Polytechnic Institute), the band organized to play for dances and other musical events throughout the school year.", " During summers the band members would take the show on tour, playing swing music at many clubs and beach resorts throughout the Southeast.", " Members began to use their earnings to pay for college expenses, while gaining experience playing alongside jazz legends of the era such as Count Basie, Frank Sinatra, Glenn Miller, Woody Herman, Tommy Dorsey, and Buddy