particularly pushing forward the 'three direct links' across the Taiwan Strait (mail, transport and trade); 4. Points out that any arrangement between China and Taiwan can only be achieved on a mutually acceptable basis; expresses the view that the future of cross-Straits relations will depend on both sides' willingness to demonstrate flexibility; supports Taiwan's achievements as regards the establishment of a fully-fledged democratic system, social pluralism, and respect for human rights and the rule of law, and takes the view that the will and approval of the 23 million people in Taiwan must be respected and taken into account with a view to a hopefully peaceful solution between the parties; 5. Objects to the anti-secession law because it does not comply with international law and is a tool that cannot successfully lead to 'peaceful national reunification', which was its declared goal, and it therefore undermines the fragile security balance in the Far East; 6. Strongly recommends to the Council and the Commission that the arms embargo remain intact until greater progress is made on human rights issues in China and on cross-Straits relations, as well as until the EU makes its code of conduct on arms sales legally binding; 7. Calls on China gradually to implement universal human rights and especially to ratify promptly the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; 8. Welcomes the resumption of the first session of the fourth round of talks in the framework of the Sino-Tibetan dialogue which took place in Bern (Switzerland) from 30 June to 1 July 2005, and calls for it to continue; 9. Calls for a better representation of Taiwan in international organisations and reiterates its call on the Commission and the Member States to support Taiwan's application for observer status in the World Health Organisation; 10. Is deeply concerned that North Korea declared on 10 February 2005 that it possesses nuclear weapons and suspended its participation in the six-party talks on its nuclear programme for an indefinite period; 11. Urges North Korea to rejoin the Nuclear non-proliferation Treaty, to revoke its decision to withdraw from the six-party talks and to allow the resumption of negotiations in order to find a peaceful solution to the crisis in the Korean peninsula; 12. Calls on the Council and the Commission to offer financial support for heavy fuel oil supplies to meet North Korea's primary energy needs, subject to a verified freezing of the Yongbyon plant; welcomes the EU participation in the Korean Energy Development Organisation (KEDO); regrets the blocking of Charles Kartman's reappointment as head of KEDO; asks the Commission and the Council to make the necessary approaches regarding full EU participation in future six-party talks; 13. Calls on the governments of Japan, China and the Korean peninsula to stop any adversary action against each other, to facilitate dialogue among the nations at official and unofficial level with a view to reaching a common understanding of history, and to achieve a final reconciliation between their governments and peoples as an important basis for peace and stability in the Far East; 14. Notes Japan's understandable