The standards were to be presented in a clear and easily understandable way so that they would be easy to apply for small undertakings with relatively limited staff and financial resources for drawing up financial statements. Consistently reducing the comprehensive rules to the circumstances relevant to SMEs and simplifying the rules are central elements for the success of this project. According to the IASB the draft IFRS for SMEs aims at companies with around 50 employees. Firms that do not have public accountability but are required to publish financial statements for external users are to be given accounting guidance, according to which general-purpose financial statements can be published for external users. In the exposure draft the IASB explains that it intends to update the IFRS for SMEs every two years. It is inappropriate for the IASB to prescribe which companies should or should not be able to use the IFRS for SMEs. It must be left to democratically elected bodies to decide whether they can find any inspiration in the IFRS for SMEs. SMEs generally find that the IASB should confine itself to developing a simple standard fitting the needs of SMEs and giving them a stable platform. Given the first reactions from SMEs IASB have failed to deliver. SMEs also consider the exposure draft as much too complicated and that its definition of own funds does not meet the particular needs of small and medium-sized businesses. Prospects of the IASB changing the standards every other year also worry SMEs. More generally it is questionable whether the IASCF/IASB has the expertise to develop a simple standard for SMEs which are not publicly traded, so as to take into account e.g. the many different forms that small business may take. Moreover, it is unclear who gave a mandate to the IASB to suggest such an IFRS for SMEs and it is even questionable whether there ever was a need or a demand for such a standard. The rapporteur considers that even promoting or encouraging voluntary use of the IFRS for SMEs will short-circuit the democratic process and cut out legislators. Should a few Member States decide to apply the final IFRS for SMEs this would lead to fragmentation of the internal market and might even prejudice uniform accounting for SMEs across the entire EU. Parliament can at least make an initial assessment, and it is not convinced that SMEs in Europe have called for and need an IFRS for SMEs drawn up by the IASB. It would perhaps be appropriate to offer a European SME standard based e.g. on the opinion of EFRAG (European Financial Reporting Advisory Group) on the IFRS for SMEs. A European SME standard would also make it possible to take specific regional characteristics (e.g. those relating to company law) into account 5. Road map towards convergence and equivalence Global convergence of accounting standards has proceeded at an ever-increasing pace. At present, almost 100 countries permit or require the use of IFRS. A key element to this increased global interest was the EU's determination to require all its publicly traded