firstly brings about a full harmonization of the test certification approval procedures. The proposal also brings the bus directive fully into the type approval procedure, resulting in improved safety standards for buses, and makes provisions for incorporating the relevant UNECE regulations within the overall Type-Approval procedure. In Parliament's First Reading, adopted in February 2004, the main issue was simplifying the procedure for low-volume vehicles. Council now proposes figures which are greater than in the original Commission proposal, but fall short of Parliament's First Reading amendments. Your Rapporteur proposes to accept, in a spirit of compromise, the Council's position in this respect. The second main issue addressed by Parliament in First Reading concerned the release of technical information. This has now been dealt with by the Commission in its EURO-5 proposal and was supported by the Opinion of the Internal Market Committee drawn up by Mrs Weisgerber ( 2005/0282(COD) ). On that basis your Rapporteur does not recommend the re-tabling of these amendments but proposes a short recital cross reference to the Euro-5 decision. The draft recommendation, firstly, updates the Directive in respect of the latest enlargement (the accession of Bulgaria and Romania) and tables the amendments necessary to bring the Directive into line with the 2006 Decision on Comitology Council Decision of 17 July 2006 amending Decision 1999/468/EC laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred to the Commission, published in OJ L 200 of 22.07.20006 , introducing the new procedure of 'Regulatory Committee with scrutiny' wherever this is necessary. The additional transparency offered by the comitology decision is seen as particularly important for updating measures in this proposal. Secondly, the draft recommendation covers an important category of modified vehicles for disabled persons (wheel-chair accessible vehicles), which has not been properly recognized within the categories of special purpose vehicles based on volume production cars or vans. With the technical assistance of the Commission services, a new Technical Annex and corresponding article are proposed, which will enable them to benefit from the Internal Market. In this way, provision can be made for approval of such specialised vehicles, similar to the approval procedure for ambulances or hearses. The Commission Modified Proposal contains an entirely new provision on the authorisation of spare parts (article 31), as parts and equipment sold by independent producers could potentially pose a significant risk to the correct functioning of vehicle safety and environmental systems. The Commission accordingly added a provision (deriving from the parallel discussion on design protection for 'must-match' parts) to ensure that independent production of these specifically identified parts conforms to the technical parameters necessary for the overall safe operation of the vehicle. It is important that the Framework Directive balances consumer and producer interests while maintaining competition in the after-market. Your Rapporteur believes that the Commission has provided a sound framework, but proposes amendments to make the procedures clearer, more effective, more transparent and in compliance with better regulation practice. In this context, the operation of the comitology procedure will be critical, as it will be responsible for deciding which parts will be included