and shall be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections . 2. In order to be eligible to support a proposed citizens' initiative, signatories shall be citizens of the Union and shall be at least 16 years old . Justification Linking the minimum age to national voting age requirements is likely to create inequality, as in Austria, the minimum voting age is 16 years whereas in other Member States it is 18 years. Lowering and thereby harmonising the minimum voting age for signatories is advisable, in order to treat all citizens equally and to engage young people in EU policy making and civil dialogue. Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories for a proposed citizens' initiative, the organiser shall be required to register it with the Commission, providing the information set out in Annex II, in particular on the subject-matter and objectives as well as on the sources of funding and support for the proposed citizens' initiative. 1. Before r eceiving a decision on admissibility from the Commission and initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories for a proposed citizens' initiative, the organiser shall be required to register that initiative with the Commission, providing the information set out in Annex II, in particular on the subject matter and objectives as well as on the sources of funding and support for the proposed citizens' initiative. Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The Commission shall reject the registration of proposed citizens' initiatives which are manifestly against the values of the Union. 4. The Commission shall reject the registration of proposed citizens' initiatives which are manifestly against the values of the Union. The Commission must duly explain and publish its reasons for rejecting an initiative. Justification Transparency will undoubtably prove educational and prevent the multiplication of inadmissible or ludicrous initiatives. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. A proposed citizens' initiative that has been registered shall be made public in the register. 5. A proposed citizens' initiative that has been registered shall be made public in the register. Once the registration has been completed, the Commission shall examine the admissibility of the proposed citizens' initiative, in accordance with Article 8. Justification There is no need to wait with the admissibility check until the organising committee has collected a certain number of signatures and submitted to the Commission a request for decision on the admissibility. In order to prevent any unnecessary administrative burden, the Commission should check the admissibility of the proposed initiative right after the registration and without any delay. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. All registered initiatives shall be given a reference number. The Commission database for storing the registered initiatives should provide a