Europe needs to be brought forward in order to ensure a common level of protection for fundamental rights in the European Union. Justification Even though the Treaty has not yet been ratified or entered into force, it nevertheless sets out the European Union’s concerns and ambitions for the future and it should consequently inspire measures which need to be taken urgently, without awaiting its entry into force at a distant date. This is particularly true of measures relating to the protection of minors. Amendment 7 Recital -1 f (new) (-1f) The unstoppable development of new information and communication technologies makes it urgent for the European Community to guarantee full and adequate protection for consumers’ interests in this field by adopting a directive which will guarantee throughout its territory the free delivery and provision of information services on the one hand, and on the other hand will guarantee that their content is licit, respects the principle of human dignity and does not impair the integral development of minors. Justification The European Community has the power to intervene in the sector of the media and information services by adopting a binding act in the legal form of a directive. Firstly, these services fall under the concept of the free provision of services, as established in the case law of the Court of Justice. The same directive should also lay down appropriate measures providing adequate protection for the physical, mental and moral development of minors when using any of the information media now available on the market. Amendment 8 Recital 1 (1) Council Recommendation 98/560/EC of 24 September 1998 on the development of the competitiveness of the European audiovisual and information services industry by promoting national frameworks aimed at achieving a comparable and effective level of protection of minors and human dignity is the first legal instrument at Community level concerning the content of audiovisual and information services covering all forms of delivery, from broadcasting to the Internet. (1) Council Recommendation 98/560/EC of 24 September 1998 on the development of the competitiveness of the European audiovisual and information services industry by promoting national frameworks aimed at achieving a comparable and effective level of protection of minors and human dignity is the first legal instrument at Community level which concerns questions linked to the protection of minors and human dignity in relation to the content of all audiovisual and information services offered to the public, in whatever form of delivery, from broadcasting to the Internet. Justification Council Recommendation 98/560/EC is indeed the first legal instrument at Community level in terms of both the content of all information and audiovisual services, and of questions linked to the protection of minors and respect for human dignity in relation to this content. Nevertheless, it should not be forgotten that the first legal instrument adopted in the field of audiovisual services was the 1989 ‘Television without Frontiers’ Directive, subsequently revised in 1997. Amendment 9 Recital 1 a (new) (1a) The European Community has already intervened in the field of audiovisual and information services in order to create the necessary conditions