of Eurocontrol, as a founder member of the joint undertaking, is also clarified. Specific agreements with the joint undertaking must define the arrangements for sharing and using the results of the definition phase. Involvement of the European Parliament The rapporteur points out that the proposal makes no mention of the budgetary control authority, when a large part of the joint undertaking’s activities are to be funded by the Community budget. Since it will be employing staff and receiving a Community subsidy, it would seem appropriate for the joint undertaking to comply with general budgetary procedures, so that its activities and administrative spending can be more effectively reviewed. Parliament should be consulted on the appointment of the executive director, changes in the statutes, and prolongation of the joint undertaking’s funding, and should have an observer on the administrative board. Given the many and important tasks of the administrative board , there is a need for better balancing of those represented, in accordance with the following criteria: public bodies, intergovernmental organisations, and the private sector. Voting rights should be balanced and weighted in accordance with financial participation. On the appointment of the executive director the Commission, after consulting the European Parliament representative, should present the administrative board with a list of three possible candidates. The mandate, for five years, should be renewable for a maximum period of three years. Conclusions · SESAR will be the first joint undertaking based on a public-private partnership (PPP) and will thus be setting a precedent. · SESAR and Galileo are sister projects with set medium- and long-term objectives and financial returns. · SESAR and the Single Sky legislation may provide a number of stable jobs and this opportunity is a further argument for its realisation. OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGAL AFFAIRS ON THE LEGAL BASIS Mr Giles Chichester Chairman Committee on Industry, Research and Energy BRUSSELS Subject: Legal basis of the Proposal for a Council Regulation on the establishment of a Joint Undertaking to develop the new generation European air traffic management system (SESAR) ( COM(2005)0602 – C6‑0002/2006 – 2005/0235(CNS) ) Not yet published in the OJ. Dear Mr Chairman, By letter of 26 March 2006 you asked the Committee on Legal Affairs pursuant to Rule 35(2) to consider whether the legal basis of the above Commission proposal was valid and appropriate. The Committee considered the above question at its meeting of 20 April 2006. Your letter reads as follows: "By this letter, I am seeking the opinion of your committee, pursuant to Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure, concerning the appropriateness of the legal basis as proposed by the Commission for the above mentioned proposal on SESAR. The ITRE rapporteur, Mrs Erna Hennicot-Schoepges, and the TRAN draftsman, Mr Philip Bradbourn, have discussed the appropriateness of the legal basis proposed, i.e. TEC article 171 (consultation), and they dispute the choice of the Commission on two grounds; namely its objective and its purpose . First, the proposal has a single objective: " to ensure the modernisation of the European air traffic management system" (Art.1 (2)). Yet this