also heavier weapons, sufficient assistance must be given to those countries inside and outside the EU, which do not have the means to fully implement the Code of Conduct and to adopt their practices to the standards established between the old Member States. Member States can follow, for instance, the example of the government of the Netherlands, which has introduced candidate and other interested countries to the practical implementation of the Code of Conduct. 6) EU Common List of Military Equipment The first update of the EU common military list since June 2000 and its publication in the Official Journal is an important contribution to the harmonisation and strengthening of the Code of Conduct. It will be based on the numbering system of the Wassenaar Arrangement Munitions List. Unfortunately, certain "dual-use" items, which may well be used for human rights abuses, and certain parts of weapon systems are not included. 7) Implementation of Criterion 8 of the Code of Conduct Criterion 8 is the so-called "sustainable development" criterion and determines the compatibility of arms exports with the technical and economic capacity of the recipient country. As this criterion is particularly important with regard to crisis prevention and sustainable development in socially less developed countries, the survey that was initiated to develop guidelines for its application is welcome. The objective should be to prevent too high a level of arms imports from jeopardising the social and economic development of a country. 8) Priority Guidelines for the Near Future The Fifth Annual Report has identified in total 9 priority guidelines, of which guideline number 7 ("development of dialague [sic!] with the European Parliament") and number 9 ("Review of the Code of Conduct") are of particular importance for the European Parliament. Increasing the dialogue with the Parliament will be a significant step towards more parliamentarian scrutiny of EU arms exports and will enhance the democratic legitimacy of the Code of Conduct. The review of the Code can lead to clear improvements, if it takes the recommendations of the European Parliament resolution into account and if the review will be conducted in a broad and open way - including both parliaments and non-governmental organisations. In general, however, the vague formulation of the priority guidelines suggests that Member States are not fully committed to them. III. Recommendations regarding tighter controls of arms exports, legally binding provisions and greater transparency A recent report by Amnesty International on the EU's Arms Exports Amnesty International: Undermining Global Security: The European Union's Arms Exports , 2004. has analysed numerous instances, in which loopholes, undercutting or insufficient clarifications and definitions have lead to EU weapons, their components, EU licences to produce arms overseas, private EU military and security services, EU military personnel, expertise and training and equipment for capital punishment, torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treating being - often secretly - exported to countries where the EU standards for democracy, human rights and sustainable development are clearly not respected. Particularly from the point of view of the broad principles underlying the EU’s external policy, such as human rights, conflict prevention