5 Animal testing In order to avoid animal testing, testing on vertebrate animals for the purposes of this Regulation shall be undertaken only as a last resort. The use of non-animal tests and intelligent testing strategies shall be promoted, and duplicate vertebrate animal testing shall be prohibited. Article 6 First approval First approval shall be for a period not exceeding ten years. Article 7 Conditions and restrictions Approval may be subject to conditions and restrictions including: a) the minimum degree of purity of the active substance; b) the nature and maximum content of certain impurities; c) restrictions arising from the evaluation of the information referred to in Article 9 taking account of the agricultural, plant health and environmental, including climatic, conditions in question; d) type of preparation; e) manner and conditions of application; f) submission of further confirmatory information to Member States and to the ║Authority, ║ where new requirements are established during the evaluation process as a result of new scientific and technical knowledge; g) designation of categories of users, such as professional and non-professional; h) designation of places where plant protection products containing the active substance may be authorised according to specific conditions; i) the need to impose risk mitigation measures and monitoring after use; j) restrictions or prohibitions for uses not compatible with integrated pest management schemes, or even detrimental to these schemes such as chemical soil treatment; k) any other particular conditions that result from the evaluation of information made available in the context of this Regulation. Subsection 2 Approval procedure Article 8 Application 1. The Authority shall be responsible for coordinating the approval procedure. In doing so, the Authority shall rely on the competent authorities of Member States. An application for the approval of an active substance or for an amendment to the conditions of an approval shall be submitted by the producer of the active substance to the Authority together with a complete and a summary dossier, as provided for in Article 9 (1) and (2), or a letter of access to such dossiers or a scientifically reasoned justification for not providing certain parts of those dossiers, demonstrating that the active substance fulfils the approval criteria provided for in Article 4. The Authority shall inform the competent authorities of the Member States of the applications it has received. A Member State may choose an active substance for which an application for approval has been received by the Authority, with the aim of becoming the rapporteur Member State for the purposes of Articles 10 and 12. In cases where two or more Member States have expressed an interest in becoming the rapporteur Member State and they cannot agree who should be the competent authority, the rapporteur Member State shall be determined in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83(3). The decision shall be based on objective criteria such as geographic, agricultural and climatic conditions, especially with regard to the target organisms, the performance and impartiality of the competent authority and the reference laboratory, and the absence of interests linked to the producing companies. A