finance and a European treasury to relieve the European Central Bank (ECB) of the exceptional role it is playing in saving the Euro, says a resolution on the ECB's activities in 2010 and ways to combat the crisis, approved on Thursday after a debate with newly-elected ECB President Mario Draghi. Opening the debate, Ramon Tremosa i Balcells (ALDE, ES) congratulated the ECB for having stepped up to the plate where others had shied away: "The ECB should continue intervening in the markets. This is saving the Euro. At the same time I deplore the hesitancy of the Commission and the Member States in managing the crisis", he said. Draghi: a compact to restore credibility Mr Draghi called for a "new fiscal compact" between Member States which would enshrine the essence of fiscal rules. "Countries are on the right track to reform but a credible message is needed now. This compact will be the most important element to deliver credibility in the short term", he told the plenary. He also said that although he would not discard the idea of a change to the treaties, a new approach was needed to deliver results faster. New role for the ECB In the ensuing debate many MEPs called for a rethink of the ECB's role in the short term to officially take on the duty of lender of last resort. "The ECB is already the lender of last resort and now politicians must legitimise this", Kay Swinburne (ECR, UK) said. Gay Mitchel (EPP, IE) added: "Natural justice must precede written law". George Sabin Cutas (S&D, RO) said"It is time for the ECB to take on more radical duties". Overhauling economic governance The resolution puts forward various proposals for an overhaul of the Eurozone's economic governance architecture, all in line with previous calls by Parliament. Most importantly, it lends weight to former ECB President Trichet's call for a European finance minister, who would be democratically accountable to the European Parliament, and for the medium term calls for the setting up of a single European Treasury. The resolution also calls on the Commission to set up a European credit rating foundation and look into the usefulness of suspending credit ratings for countries receiving bailout funds. Finally, to reduce the EU's dependence on the IMF, the resolution also calls on the Commission to take the steps needed to establish a European monetary fund. MEPs urge EU leaders to adopt bold measures to quell crisis 01-12-2011 . The crisis that has engulfed the eurozone shows no signs of abating and bolder measures are needed to restore market confidence, MEPs warned ahead of an EU summit 8-9 December in Brussels. They urged a more active role for the European Central Bank and the introduction of eurobonds during a debate Wednesday. Polish Secretary of State for European affairs Mikołaj Dowgielewicz , speaking for the Council, said structural reform and fiscal consolidation must be continued. Summit decisions should be guided by three principles, he said: more unity, more Europe in the form of strengthened economic governance and strengthened EU institutions, essentially a