an insurance company shall be the sole responsibility of the home Member State. It also adds that the host authorities shall inform the home authorities if they believe the company's activities are affecting its financial situation. Financial supervision includes verification of solvency and the establishment of technical provisions and of the assets covering them. Likewise, the home Member State requires every company to have sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms. Text of the article Article 8 Article 15 of Directive 79/267/EEC shall be replaced by the following: 'Article 15 1. The financial supervision of an assurance undertaking, including that of the business it carries on either through branches or under the freedom to provide services, shall be the sole responsibility of the home Member State . If the competent authorities of the Member State of the commitment have reason to consider that the activities of an assurance undertaking might affect its financial soundness, they shall inform the competent authorities of the undertaking's home Member State . The latter authorities shall determine whether the undertaking is complying with the prudential principles laid down in this Directive. 2. That financial supervision shall include verification, with respect to the assurance undertaking's entire business, of its state of solvency, the establishment of technical provisions, including mathematical provisions, and of the assets covering them, in accordance with the rules laid down or practices followed in the home Member State pursuant to the provisions adopted at Community level. 3. The competent authorities of the home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to have sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms.' Comments on UK provisions All sections entitled 'Comments on UK provisions' use as their primary source ES 1. In order to adjust it to the principle of home country control the scope of application of Part II of the ICA 1982 was amended. The core domestic rules that transposed Article 8 of the 3LD into UK legislation are included in the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations 1994 and the Insurance Companies (Amendment) Regulations 1994. The provisions that limit the UK Secretary of State’s supervisory power over EC companies with their head office in a Member State other than the UK who carry on activities in the UK either via the establishment of a branch or through the cross-border provision of services are found in the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations 1994. Regulation 13 inserted paragraph 1A into section 15 of the ICA 1982, which basically excludes EC companies from the application of Part II of the Act in so far as those companies are carrying on insurance business through a branch and have complied with the requirements specified in Part I of Schedule 2F to the Act. Regulation 45 inserted Schedule 2F into the ICA 1982. The Secretary of State has residual power to impose requirements for the protection of policyholders, which includes the right to take “any action as appears to him to be appropriate”. In principle, the Secretary of State can only exercise this power over