2 February 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Barón Crespo on behalf of the PSE Group on the political situation in Austria Resolution on the political situation in Austria The European Parliament, - having regard to Articles 6, 7 and 13 of the Treaty on European Union, - having regard to the statement of the Portuguese Presidency on behalf of 14 Member States of 31 January 2000, - having regard to the Commission statement on Austria of 1 February 2000, A. whereas, following the Austrian elections of 3 October 1999, President Klestil asked Chancellor Klima to begin negotiations for a new coalition government, B. noting that, following the collapse of these talks, Foreign Minister Schüssel began negotiations on 25 January 2000 to form a government of the ÖVP (Austrian People’s Party) with the FPÖ (Austrian Freedom Party), C. whereas the FPÖ, and notably its leader, Mr Haider, has gained popularity among certain sections of the Austrian electorate on the basis of xenophobia and anti-immigration rhetoric which runs counter to the principles of the European Union as expressed in the Treaties, D. whereas Mr Haider has also made a number of statements which have praised policies of the Nazi regime, inter alia stating that the Nazi SS was “a part of the German army which should be honoured”, E. whereas Mr Haider has, in addition, insulted certain EU Member States and their leaders over the last few days in statements which Foreign Minister Schüssel has failed to condemn, F. whereas 14 Member States have agreed to an EU Presidency statement which outlines a series of joint measures to be implemented if a coalition government including the FPÖ is formed; whereas the Commission shares the concerns underlying that statement, G. underlining the fact that a large majority of the Austrian electorate voted for parties other than the FPÖ, 1. Condemns the racist, xenophobic and anti-immigrant rhetoric of Mr Haider and the FPÖ which are wholly inconsistent with the fundamental values of the EU; 2. Recalls that the European Union is a community of values and that, in this context, integrating the FPÖ into a governing coalition would cause the normalisation of the extreme right and thereby set a dangerous precedent with serious consequences for other Member States as well as the candidate countries; 3. Condemns the irresponsibility of the ÖVP and its leader, Mr Schüssel, in embarking upon coalition talks with the FPÖ; 4. Trusts in the great majority of the Austrian people who did not vote for the FPÖ, and calls on the Council and Commission to give their full support to activities in Austria organised to counter racist, xenophobic and anti-immigrant views; 5. Strongly supports the timely initiative of the Council Presidency in defence of the Union’s fundamental values; 6. Appeals to President Klestil and Austria’s democratic forces to seek an alternative in order to prevent the deterioration of relations within the EU; 7. Calls on the Council and Commission to be prepared, in the event of any violation of the principles