place of business; g) the rights guaranteed to the company's members, employees and creditors or the relevant measures proposed; h) if the company is managed on the basis of employee participation and if the national legislation of the host Member States does not impose such a scheme, information on the procedures whereby the arrangements for employee participation are determined. The transfer proposal shall be submitted to the members and employee representatives of the company for examination within an appropriate period prior to the date of the company's meeting of shareholders. A company planning a transfer shall be required to publish at least the following particulars pursuant to the applicable national legislation, in accordance with Directive 68/151/EEC First Council Directive 68/151/EEC of 9 March 1968 on co-ordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the Community (OJ L 65, 14.3.1968, p. 8). : a) the legal form, name and registered office of the company in the home Member State as well as those envisaged for the company in the host Member State; b) the register in which the documents and particulars referred to in Article 3(2) of Directive 68/151/EEC have been entered in respect of the company and the entry number in that register; c) an indication of the arrangements whereby creditors and minority shareholders of the company may exercise their rights and the address at which full information concerning those arrangements can be obtained free of charge. The management or board of the company planning a transfer shall also draw up a report explaining and justifying the proposal's legal and economic aspects and indicating the consequences for the company's members, creditors and employees, unless agreed otherwise. Recommendation 3 (transfer decision by meeting of the shareholders) The shareholders' meeting shall approve the transfer proposal in accordance with the arrangements laid down and by the majority required to amend the memorandum and articles of association under the legislation applicable to the company in its home Member State. If the company is managed on the basis of employee participation, the shareholders' meeting may make completion of the transfer conditional on its expressly approving the arrangements for employee participation. Recommendation 4 (administrative transfer procedure and verification) The home Member State shall verify the legality of the transfer procedure in accordance with its legislation. The competent authority designated by the home Member State shall issue a certificate conclusively declaring that all the acts and formalities required have been completed. The certificate, a copy of the memorandum and articles of association envisaged for the company in the host Member State and a copy of the transfer proposal shall be presented within an appropriate period of time to the body responsible for registration in the host Member State. Those documents shall be sufficient to enable the company to be registered in the host Member State. The competent authority responsible for registration in the host