that the transfer plan and the report must be made available in good time to all those involved; 7. Emphasises the positive effects of tax competition on economic growth in the context of the Lisbon Strategy; 8. Notes that a transfer of a company seat should be tax-neutral; 9. Suggests that the exchange of information and mutual assistance between tax authorities be improved; 10. Calls for transparency in the application of the new directive in the Member States and therefore proposes a reporting requirement for Member States vis-à-vis the Commission whereby undertakings transferring their registered office under the directive must be entered in a European companies register; points out that, in the interests of better law-making, excessive information ("overkill") must be avoided when the reporting requirement is transposed into national law, provided that sufficient information is guaranteed; 11. Confirms that the recommendations respect the principle of subsidiarity and the fundamental rights of citizens; 12. Considers that the requested proposal does not have any financial implications; 13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution and the accompanying detailed recommendations to the Commission and the Council and to the parliaments and governments of the Member States. ANNEX TO THE RESOLUTION: DETAILED RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE CONTENT OF THE PROPOSAL REQUESTED The European Parliament requests the Commission to put forward a proposal for a directive that should contain the following elements: Recommendation 1 (effects of a cross-border transfer of the registered office) Cross-border transfers of registered offices shall not give rise to the winding-up of the company concerned or to any interruption or loss of its legal personality; consequently, the company shall retain its legal identity and all its assets, liabilities and contractual relations shall remain unaffected. Furthermore, the transfer shall not circumvent legal, social and fiscal conditions. The transfer shall take effect on the date of registration in the host Member State. From the date of registration in the host Member State, the company shall be governed by the legislation of that State. Recommendation 2 (transfer procedure within the company) The management or board of a company planning a transfer shall be required to draw up a transfer proposal. The proposal shall cover at least: a) the legal form, name and registered office of the company in the home Member State; b) the envisaged legal form, name and registered office of the company in the host Member State; c) the memorandum and articles of association envisaged for the company in the host Member State; d) the timetable envisaged for the transfer; e) the date from which the transactions of the company intending to transfer its registered office will be treated for accounting purposes as being located in the host Member State; f) where appropriate, detailed information on the transfer of the central administration or principal place of business; g) the rights guaranteed to the company's members, employees and creditors or the relevant measures proposed; h) if the company is managed on the basis of employee participation and if the national legislation of the host Member States does not impose such a scheme, information on the