big-cat parts and derivatives amongst its own population and in other countries; Other species 17. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the following proposals: - the listing of Corallium spp. and Paracorallium spp. in CITES Appendix II, tabled by Sweden on behalf of the Member States; - the listing of Argentine lignum vitae ( Bulnesia sarmientoi ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Argentina; - the transfer of the ornate dabb lizard ( Uromastyx ornata ) from CITES Appendix II to CITES Appendix I, in line with the proposal of Israel; - the listing of Kaiser’s spotted newt ( Neurergus kaiseri ) in CITES Appendix I, in line with the proposal of Iran; - the listing of Baker's spiny-tailed iguana, the Roatán spiny-tailed iguana and the Honduran paleate spiny-tailed iguana ( Ctenosaura bakeri , C. oedirhina and C. melanosterna ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Honduras; - the listing of red-eyed tree frogs ( Agalychnis spp. ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Honduras and Mexico; - the listing of the Guatemalan spiny-tailed iguana ( Ctenosaura palearis ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Guatemala; - the listing of pau-rosa ( Aniba rosae o dora ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Brazil; - the listing of Dynastes satanas in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Madagascar; - the listing of the seeds of Beccariophoenix madagascariensis in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Madagascar; - the listing of the seeds of Dypsis decaryi in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of Madagascar; 18. Urges the Commission and the Member States to oppose the following proposals: - the deletion of the bobcat ( Lynx rufus ) from CITES Appendix II; - the transfer of the Morelet crocodile ( Crocodylus moreletti ) from CITES Appendix I to CITES Appendix II (proposal by Belize and Mexico); - the transfer of the Egyptian population of the Nile crocodile ( Crocodylus niloticus ) from CITES Appendix I to CITES Appendix II (proposal by Egypt); 19. Urges the Commission and the Member States to reject the proposal by the United States and Mexico for the deletion of the cliff spurge ( Euphorbia misera ) from CITES Appendix II; 20. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to step up international cooperation in the implementation of CITES; 21. Calls on the Commission and Member States to support the inclusion of additional strengthening language, proposed by Germany, in CoP 15 Doc. 32 (E-commerce in specimens of CITES-listed species) and to support the revised proposal; 22. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the Secretariat’s proposals to participate in the development of post-2010 biodiversity targets, the 2010 Biodiversity Indicators Partnership (BIP) and the Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES), including in relation to climate change (CoP 15 Doc. 10.1); 23. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the proposal CoP 15 Doc.