Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (8 July 2010) The Commission does not dispose of scientific evidence that in the EU as a whole, there is a recent substantial increase of petty or organised crime. This being said, the Commission acknowledges that poverty and social exclusion makes citizens more vulnerable to crime and violence. It is, therefore, since many years strongly engaged in combating poverty and social exclusion through a number of targeted actions. Building a more inclusive Europe is considered vital to achieve the EU's goals of sustained economic growth, more and better jobs, and greater social cohesion. With this in mind, 2010 was designated as the European year for combating poverty and social exclusion. The key objectives are to raise public awareness about these issues and renew the political commitment of the EU and its Member States to combat poverty and social exclusion. At the same time and in line with the Stockholm Programme, the Commission is developing an ‘Internal Security Strategy for the European Union’, which is to set out the principles and the main threats to security and to provide guidelines for future action under the strategy. However, the internal security strategy does not start from scratch as it is building on a longer tradition of measures to ensure that all EU citizens can benefit from freedom, security and justice within the EU. While respecting the fact that law enforcement and preventing crime at local level are the responsibility of each member state, the Commission has continued to take steps in specific policy areas to combat organised crime and limits its consequences at local level. In March 2010, the Commission proposed two new directives to fight trafficking in human beings and child sexual exploitation. It is preparing further legal initiatives in the fight against cybercrime, asset confiscation and recovery as well as counterfeiting goods. Moreover, through its ISECProgramme, a financial programme aiming to financially support projects to prevent and fight crime, the Commission funded and continues to do so, projects which include among others awareness raising campaigns, training and preventive activities in various domains. Finally, a European Union Crime Prevention Network (EUCPN) More details on the activities of the network can be found on http://www.eucpn.org provides for a forum were EU Member States can exchange best practices on how they prevent crime at local, regional and national level.