appropriate sanctions and on varying or revoking those sanctions. 5. The committee responsible shall ensure that Parliament is fully informed and, where necessary, asked for its views on all follow-up measures to its assent as given pursuant to paragraph 3. The Council shall be invited to outline developments as appropriate. On a proposal from the committee responsible, drawn up with the authorisation of the Conference of Presidents, Parliament may adopt recommendations to the Council. TITLE III TRANSPARENCY OF BUSINESS Rule 96 Transparency of Parliament's activities 1. Parliament shall ensure the utmost transparency of its activities, in line with the provisions of Articles 1, 3, second paragraph, 28(1) and 41(1) of the EU Treaty, Article 255 of the EC Treaty and Article 42 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. 2. Debates in Parliament shall be public. 3. Committees shall normally meet in public. They may decide, however, at the latest when the agenda of a meeting is adopted, to divide the agenda for that meeting into items open to the public and items closed to the public. However, if a meeting is held in camera, the committee may, subject to Article 4(1) to (4) of European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, open documents and minutes from the meeting to public access. Rule 147 shall apply in the event of any breach of the rules governing confidentiality. 4. Consideration by the committee responsible of requests relating to procedures on immunity pursuant to Rule 7 shall always take place in camera. Rule 97 Public access to documents 1. Any citizen of the Union and any natural or legal person residing or having its registered office in a Member State has a right of access to Parliament documents in conformity with Article 255 of the EC Treaty, subject to the principles, conditions and limits laid down in European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and pursuant to the specific provisions contained in these Rules of Procedure. Access to Parliament documents shall as far as possible be granted to other natural or legal persons in the same way. Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 shall be published for information alongside the Rules of Procedure. 2. For the purposes of access to documents, the expression 'Parliament documents' means any content within the meaning of Article 3(a) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 which has been drawn up or received by Officers of Parliament within the meaning of Title I, Chapter 2, of these Rules, Parliament's governing bodies, committees or interparliamentary delegations, or by Parliament's Secretariat. Documents drawn up by individual Members or political groups are Parliament documents for the purposes of access to documents if they are tabled under the Rules of Procedure. The Bureau shall lay down rules to ensure that all Parliament documents are recorded. 3. Parliament shall establish a register of Parliament documents. Legislative documents and other documents as indicated in an Annex to these Rules See Annex XV. shall, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, be made directly accessible through the register. References for other Parliament documents shall as