significant progress has been made, and there has been a general downward trend in road deaths. However, this progress took place mostly during the first half of the decade. Since 2005 the reduction in the number of road deaths has been slowing down. In 2007 over 40 000 people were killed in the European Union: this represents a fall in the number of road deaths by some 20% over the entire period. This result falls far short of the target fixed for 2010 which required a reduction of 37% over the same period. Even more seriously, the number of road traffic deaths did not fall in 2007. Over the same period, studies commissioned by the Commission show that non-residents account for a disproportionately high number of road traffic accidents, particularly as regards speeding. This phenomenon is partly linked to increased mobility within the European Union and the opening of borders between Member States. However, sanctions imposed for offences committed on the territory of Member States other than the driver's country of residence are most frequently not enforced. This is particularly the case for automatically recorded offences, which have greatly increased with the widespread installation of automatic radar systems on European roads. This relative impunity undermines the objectives of road safety and encourages drivers not to respect road traffic rules in other Member States because they feel that sanctions will not be enforced. But it also undermines the legitimacy of these controls in the eyes of European citizens generally who could call them into question, arguing that residents and non-residents must be treated equally. The objective of the proposal under review is therefore to address these two concerns, coming, as it does, in the wake of a number of initiatives launched by the Commission, such as the recommendation of 6 April 2004 on enforcement in the field of road safety (2004/345/CE). The European Parliament, through members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, demanded on a number of occasions that legislation be introduced on the cross-border enforcement of sanctions linked to road safety. The Commission's proposal for a directive The Commission seeks to facilitate the enforcement of penalties against drivers who have committed offences relating to speeding, drink-driving, a failure to wear a seatbelt or failure to stop at red lights in a Member State other than their own. The Commission deliberately chose to limit the scope of the Directive, which marks a new approach in European road safety policy - to the four offences (Article 1) which are responsible for most fatalities in the EU. Furthermore, they are all considered offences in the 27 EU Member States. The proposal seeks to establish a procedure for exchanging information between Member States (Article 3) through an electronic data exchange network (Article 4) to identify a vehicle which has committed an offence. Following identification, an offence notification is sent by the relevant authority in the State of offence to the holder of the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned (Article 5) which describes the details of the offence, the amount of the financial penalty that