only where the petitioner has attached a translation or summary drawn up in an official language of the European Union. The translation or summary shall form the basis of Parliament's work. Parliament's correspondence with the petitioner shall employ the official language in which the translation or summary is drawn up. 4. Petitions shall be entered in a register in the order in which they are received if they comply with the conditions laid down in paragraph 2; those that do not shall be filed, and the petitioner shall be informed of the reasons therefor. 5. Petitions entered in the register shall be forwarded by the President to the committee responsible, which shall first ascertain whether the petitions registered fall within the sphere of activities of the European Union. 6. Petitions declared inadmissible by the committee shall be filed; the petitioner shall be informed of the decision and the reasons therefor. 7. In such cases the committee may suggest to the petitioner that he contact the competent authority of the Member State concerned or of the European Union. 8. Unless the petitioner asks for it to be treated in confidence, it shall be entered in a public register. 9. Where the committee deems it appropriate, it may refer the matter to the Ombudsman. 10. Petitions addressed to Parliament by natural or legal persons who are neither citizens of the European Union nor reside in a Member State nor have their registered office in a Member State shall be registered and filed separately. The President shall send a monthly record of such petitions received during the previous month, indicating their subject matter, to the committee responsible for considering petitions, which may request those which it wishes to consider. Rule 192 Examination of petitions 1. The committee responsible may decide to draw up a report or otherwise express its opinion on petitions it has declared admissible. The committee may, particularly in the case of petitions which seek changes in existing law, request opinions from other committees pursuant to Rule 46. 2. An electronic register shall be set up in which citizens may lend their support to the petitioner, appending their own electronic signature to petitions which have been declared admissible and entered in the register. 3. When considering petitions or establishing facts, the committee may organise hearings of petitioners or general hearings or dispatch members to establish the facts of the situation in situ. 4. With a view to preparing its opinions, the committee may request the Commission to submit documents, to supply information and to grant it access to its facilities. 5. The committee shall, where necessary, submit motions for resolutions to Parliament on petitions which it has considered. The committee may also request that its opinions be forwarded by the President to the Commission or the Council. 6. The committee shall inform Parliament every six months of the outcome of its deliberations. The committee shall, in particular, inform Parliament of the measures taken by the Council or the Commission on petitions referred to them by Parliament. 7. The President shall inform petitioners of