100 kg which has been caught in the North Sea is weighed before its first sale in accordance with current Community rules. (a) all quantities of plaice and sole landed by any Community fishing vessel carrying on board any quantity of plaice exceeding 500 kg or of sole exceeding 300 kg are weighed; Weighing shall be undertaken using scales that have been certified as accurate within a reasonable margin of tolerance in accordance with Community legislation by the competent authorities of the Member State. (b) the weighing of plaice and sole is carried out in the presence of controllers and before transportation from the point of landing and before first sale; (c) weighing is undertaken using scales that have been certified as accurate within a reasonable margin of tolerance by the competent authorities of the Member State. Amendment 18 Article 11, paragraph 2 2. Containers holding plaice or sole shall be stowed separately from other containers . 2. Plaice and sole shall be stowed in separate fish boxes . Amendment 23 Article 13 a (new) Article 13a Action plan for the development and use of low-impact fishing methods and gear Immediately after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall carry out an in-depth study of the impact of beam trawl fishing on ecosystems and the marine environment in areas where this fishing method is used and of the alternative fishing methods for beam trawl fishing that are sustainable in economic, ecological and social terms. Based on the conclusion of this study, the Commission shall draw up an action plan to promote research into low-impact fishing methods and gear - including research on the size and shape of nets ensuring the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources - and the development of such research. At the same time, this action plan shall set guidelines for the gradual phasing out of fishing methods and gear which have a negative impact on ecosystems and the marine environment in favour of lower-impact fishing methods and gear. Initiatives under this action plan shall be financed from the European Fisheries Fund in accordance with the objectives of that Fund. Amendment 20 Article 15 In the event that the STECF advises that either or both the spawning stock size of plaice or that of sole is suffering reduced reproductive capacity, the Council shall decide by qualified majority on the basis of a proposal from the Commission on a TAC for plaice that is lower than that provided for in Article 4, on a TAC for sole that is lower than that provided for in Article 5, and on a number of days at sea that is lower than that provided for in Article 6. In the event that the STECF advises that either or both the spawning stock size of plaice or that of sole is suffering reduced reproductive capacity, the Council may decide by qualified majority on the basis of a proposal from the Commission on a TAC for plaice that is lower than that provided for in Article 4, on a TAC for sole that