III programme will have an average annual budget of EUR 16 million for the period 2007‑13. In the field of sexual abuse and exploitation of children, Daphne has supported research, studies and surveys that provide important insights into the nature and scope of the problem of sexual violence against children in Europe. In particular, the Daphne programme has supported a number of projects that set out to review the kinds of actions being undertaken in Europe with a view to identifying good practice and recommending improvements. One particularly important issue to be addressed here was the approaches that organisations and, indeed, social services, schools and others working with children take to ‘screening’ as many organisations and bodies across Europe still do not systematically check those who come into contact with children for evidence of previous convictions for child sexual abuse or a history of violence. This is particularly true of those who volunteer their services and results often from a lack of awareness of the potential risks but also from a reluctance to ‘check up’ on adults who seem to be operating from a desire to help. One important study looked at the effectiveness of collecting and using personal information on child sex offenders as a means of protecting children from possible re-offences. The study concluded that at European level this could only be effective if there was a harmonised system across Europe that allowed police forces in the various countries to share information and cooperate. At the time of the report, Europol had not yet become active in this area but subsequently such cooperation has been facilitated through Europol and sex offender registers are becoming more common. It is important to remember, though, that this improves protection for children from those who already have convictions for child sex offences; there is a need for continued vigilance given that many abusers never come to court. Finally, the Commission communication and five-year action plan (2005‑10) to develop an EU strategy to the measurement of crime and criminal justice COM(2006)437 final. outlines a number of actions concerning evolving and emergent crime phenomena, including the development of indicators relating to the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography Ibid, Task 5.4.5, p. 15. . The plan also provides for the setting up of an expert group to assist the Commission in identifying the policy needs of data on crime and criminal justice 2006/581/EC: Commission decision of 7 August 2006 setting up a group of experts on the policy needs for data on crime and criminal justice, OJ L 234, 29.8.2006. . The first expert group meeting will take place early April 2007, with regular meetings planned thereafter.