and (b), in a form resulting in protection equivalent to one of them. The Member States need not apply the provisions of this paragraph to investment companies that already comply with them under Directive 2002/92/EC. 3. The amounts referred to in paragraph 2 shall be periodically reviewed by the Commission in order to take account of changes in the European Index of Consumer Prices as published by Eurostat, in line with and at the same time as the adjustments made under Article 4(7) of Directive 2002/92/EC. Article 12 Organisational requirements 1. The home Member State shall ensure that investment firms comply with the organisational requirements set out in paragraphs 2 to 9. 2. An investment firm shall establish adequate policies and procedures to take reasonable steps to ensure compliance of the firm and its directors, employees and tied-agents with its obligations under this Directive when conducting business with and on behalf of clients and which require it to act with market integrity. 3. An investment firm shall be structured and organised in such a way as to minimise the risk of client interests being prejudiced by conflicts of interest between the firm and its clients or between one of its clients and another. 4. An investment firm shall take reasonable steps to employ such systems, resources, and procedures as are necessary to ensure continuity and regularity in the provision of the service. 5. An investment firm shall ensure that, when relying on a third party for the performance of functions which are critical for the provision of continuous and satisfactory service to clients, that it takes reasonable steps to avoid undue additional operational risk. Outsourcing of important operational functions may not be undertaken in such a way as to impair materially the quality of its internal control and the ability of the supervisor to monitor the firm's compliance with all obligations. 6. An investment firm shall have sound administrative and accounting procedures, internal control mechanisms, effective procedures for risk assessment, and effective control and safeguard arrangements for information processing systems, including, in particular, rules governing personal transactions by employees. 7. An investment firm shall arrange for records to be kept of transactions undertaken by it which shall be sufficient to enable the competent authority to monitor compliance with the requirements under this Directive, and in particular, where relevant , to ascertain that the investment firm has complied with all obligations with respect to clients. 8. An investment firm shall, when holding financial instruments belonging to clients, make adequate arrangements so as to safeguard clients" ownership rights, especially in the event of the investment firm's insolvency, and to prevent the use of a client's instruments on own account except with the client's express consent. 9. An investment firm shall, when holding funds belonging to clients, make adequate arrangements to safeguard the clients" rights and, except in the case of credit institutions, prevent the use of client funds for its own account. 10. In the case of branches of investment firms, the competent authority of the Member State in which the branch is located