present to the Commission, no later than 2006, a detailed programme for the long-term management of all the radioactive waste types under its jurisdiction. The programme shall include all the different steps described in the Annex. Once the programme has been approved by the Council, each Member State shall fix its own deadlines to put the programme in force. In particular, Member States shall set deadlines for the authorisation for development of appropriate disposal sites and for authorisation for operation of disposal facilities. Such deadlines shall be consistent with the best technologies available at the time of the preparation of the programme. (a) authorisation for development of appropriate disposal site(s) to be granted no later than 2008. In the case of geological disposal of high-level and long-lived radioactive waste, this authorisation may be conditional upon a further period of detailed underground study; (b) in the case of short-lived low and intermediate-level radioactive waste, if this is to be disposed of separately from high-level and long-lived radioactive waste, authorisation for operation of the disposal facility to be granted no later than 2013; (c) in the case of high-level and long-lived radioactive waste, to be disposed of in a geological repository, authorisation for operation of the Amendment 7 Article 4, paragraph 3a (new) 3a. Each Member State shall publish national individual programmes, covering all stages of waste management, up to and including the implementation of permanent disposal solutions. Such programmes shall integrate the technical, geological, political and economic considerations specific to each country. Member States shall, by 2006, submit to the Commission a national programme setting their own timescales for the final disposal of waste, taking into account their particular legislative and political circumstances. Once the national programmes have been submitted, they shall be peer-reviewed by the Commission and the national regulators in close cooperation so that they can be implemented accordingly. Amendment 8 Article 4, paragraph 6 6. The programme may include shipments of radioactive waste or spent fuel to another Member State or third country if such shipments are fully in compliance with existing EU legislation, principally Directive 92/3/Euratom, and International commitments, are covered by firm contracts and only take place to States with appropriate facilities that meet accepted norms and standards of the Member State of origin and, in the case of material within the meaning of Article 197 of the Treaty, are under adequate safeguards. 6. The programme may include shipments of radioactive waste or spent fuel to another Member State or third country if such shipments are fully in compliance with existing EU legislation, principally Directive 92/3/Euratom, and International commitments, are covered by firm contracts and only take place with the prior written informed consent of States with appropriate facilities that meet EU and international norms and standards , principally the International Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. In the case of material within the meaning of Article 197 of the Treaty, adequate safeguards must be applied . Amendment 9 Article 5, title Research and technological development in