a rule by 2015. 3. Monitoring of water quality including that of the river Rhine is the responsibility of Member States under Article 8 of the Water Framework Directive. Results of this monitoring will have to form one of the points of departure for the plans and programmes due by 22 December 2009. Pollution from inland navigation is reported both in national reports referred to under point 1 above and in activities by the International Commission for the Protection of the Rhine River http://www.iksr.org and the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine, bringing together all the Rhine riparian countries. Further, Rhine riparian countries Switzerland, France, Germany and the Netherlands have within the International Commission for the Protection of the Rhine River set up an ‘International Warning- and Alarm Plan Rhine’ http://www.iksr.org/uploads/media/Bericht_177_e_01.pdf to immediately exchange data on pollution events and facilitate preventive and remedial measures including those for drinking water abstraction. Reports by Member States on drinking water quality have not revealed impacts on drinking water quality. 4. Particulate matters as well as gaseous emissions generated by engines used in inland waterway vessels are regulated by Directive 97/68/EC on Non-Road Mobile Machinery Directive 97/68/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from internal combustion engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery, OJ L 59, 27.2.1998, as amended. which requires since 1 January 2009 that all new engines meet the III A emission limits. The directive does not prescribe any particular technical solution, but leaves it open to industry to develop the appropriate abatement technologies. In line with the provisions of this directive, the Commission is currently assessing recent technology developments in order to conclude on the need to revise the emission limits. It is discussing possible revisions with the relevant stakeholders on the basis of two specific studies which have been published in January 2009 http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/mechan_equipment/emissions/projstudies.htm .