the Commission and concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties. deleted Justification The admissibility check is abolished. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) It is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories and provided it is considered admissible , each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. (15) In the absence of a competent Union electoral authority, it is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories, each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks , which may be based on random sampling, and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. Justification It should be made clear that Member States check the signatures even if it is a European citizens' initiative, because there is no competent Union electoral authority that could do that exercise. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (16) Organisers should ensure that all the relevant conditions set out in this Regulation are met prior to submitting a citizens' initiative to the Commission. deleted Justification It is superfluous to mention in a recital that the obligations set out by a Regulation should be met in order to reach the desired legal effect. Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (16a) It is of the utmost importance that organisers of a citizen's initiative provide a declaration of any financial means used to support and promote the initiative, in order to ensure full transparency. Amendment 19 Proposal for a regulation Recital 17 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (17) The Commission should examine a citizens' initiative and set out its conclusions and the actions it envisages to take in response to it , within a period of four months . (17) The Commission should examine a citizens' initiative and set out its legal and political conclusions separately; it should also set out the actions it envisages to take in response to it. In order to demonstrate that a citizens' initiative supported by at least one million Union citizens and its possible follow-up is carefully examined, the Commission should explain in a clear, comprehensible and detailed manner the reasons for its intended action, and should