negotiation, and could undertake an initiative in order to turn water into a universal public good. Public services are part of the identity of Europe. Fair possibility for everyone to have access to basic services is considered a precondition for democracy and every European country has been built on this base. Access by the poor to basic services in areas like health and education is absolutely necessary for development and democracy in developing countries. Therefore, demands for liberalisation should not include such areas, and promotion of public services should therefore be stressed in order to comply with the EU foreign policy objectives of promoting democracy and human rights. The recognition of public health as a major right, prior to trade profits, is an important concession to developing countries in the Doha negotiations. Any further step to apply this principle, giving the poor effective access to medicines, -through a reform of the TRIPS Agreement as promised- would have an immediate effect on the lives of millions of poor people who can not afford the price of medicines to fight diseases that have enormous negative effects on the development of their countries. Goods and services industry The right to industrialisation as a development right must be recognised both for developing and currently industrialised countries. EU policies should be oriented towards creating basic conditions that promote the industry of goods and services in Europe, not as means for European investors to control foreign economies. The absence of social rights and of an effective application of social rules in countries exporting goods and services to Europe represents a danger for its industrialisation and for the basic rights of its workers. For developing countries, industrialisation is essential to tackle poverty, and to cut the vicious circle of dependence on commodities with no added value. Two basic conditions are necessary for the industrialisation of poor countries: the possibility to protect their markets in industrialised goods from very big players at least at the first stage of their development - just as industrialised countries did - and the access to technology. Access to technology means access to patents, 90% of which are owned by the industrialised countries. Any reorientation of the current negotiations of NAMA in order to allow developing countries to protect their market, and any amendment of the TRIPS Agreement in this direction would have enormous beneficial consequences for poor people in developing countries. Much must be done urgently for poverty-reduction, and much can be done through a change in trade rules. These are only some proposals in order to widen the discussion and to bring to action an international trade policy more oriented towards long term concerns, towards poverty reduction, and towards the rational use of natural resources and the building of a peaceful world. 5.4.2006 OPINION of the Committee on Development for the Committee on International Trade on trade and poverty: designing trade policies to maximise trade’s contribution to poverty relief ( 2006/2031(INI) ) Draftswoman: Danutė Budreikaitė SUGGESTIONS The Committee on Development calls on the Committee on International Trade, as the committee responsible, to incorporate