ORAL QUESTION WITH DEBATE O-0101/08 pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure by Marco Cappato , Ignasi Guardans Cambó , Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert , Renate Weber , Ona Juknevičienė , Baroness Sarah Ludford , Alexander Alvaro , Sophia in 't Veld and Adina-Ioana Vălean , on behalf of the ALDE Group to the Commission Subject: Impact of aviation security measures and of body scanners on human rights, privacy, data protection and personal dignity The European Commission has proposed to include among the allowed methods for screening passengers in EU airports the so-called ‘body scanners’, that is to say ‘millimeter wave’-based technology machines that show images of persons as if they were naked, in an extremely detailed manner, genitalia included. The measure has a serious impact on fundamental human rights, such as the right to privacy, to data protection and to personal dignity. Does the Commission not think that the proposal: – has a serious impact on fundamental human rights, the right to privacy, data protection and dignity, that has to be evaluated through a human rights impact assessment as provided by the Communication on compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Commission proposals, and that the EDPS should be consulted as provided by Art. 28 par. 2 of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 , as well as the WP Art. 29 and the Fundamental Rights Agency? – goes beyond merely technical measures related to civil aviation and cannot be examined according to the comitology procedure, while the legal basis of the act consequently seems to be inadequate, as security issues fall under the third pillar, and methods, requirements and procedures for screening are closely interlinked and should be examined at the same time and require full democratic scrutiny from the European Parliament? – raises doubts in relation to its proportionality and necessity in a democratic society, so that it exposes the EU and its Member States to possible court cases in relation to violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as to condemnation by human rights bodies, at national, European and international level? – should be based on technical and scientific in-depth researches on the available technologies as well as of those that are being developed, such as that on liquids, and that researches should be done on the possible impact on passengers' health? Does the Commission not think: – that a wider, transparent and open debate involving passengers, stakeholders and institutions at EU and national level should be promoted on such a delicate issue touching upon fundamental citizens' rights? – that for the abovementioned reasons, the draft measure exceeds the implementing powers provided for in the basic instrument, is not compatible with the aim and the content of the basic instrument and does not respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality? OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1