Answer given by Mr Andor on behalf of the Commission (3 August 2010) The preparation of the Europe 2020 strategy has been going on for more than a year, during which time studies have been conducted and discussions have taken place in the various committees, and in particular the Council’s Employment, Economic Policy and Social Protection Committees. Based on that work the Commission has produced a Commission Staff Working Document evaluating the Lisbon Strategy Lisbon Strategy evaluation document (SEC(2010) 114 final). with the aim of ensuring that its successor retains the latter’s major strengths and learn from its weaknesses. The document concludes, inter alia , that the strategy has had a positive impact overall on the EU, has helped build a broad consensus on the reforms needed and has delivered a number of tangible benefits for people and businesses across the EU. The structural reforms undertaken have made the EU’s economy more resilient and have helped to cope with the severe impact of the economic recession. The significant reduction in structural unemployment throughout the period 2000 to 2008 can only be explained through the influence of structural reforms, and the significant rise in employment rates over that period cannot be explained solely by cyclical movements. The evaluation also found that the importance of interdependence in a closely integrated economy was not sufficiently recognised and the overall pace of reform was slow and uneven, both geographically and across different policy areas. Links between the Lisbon Strategy and other EU strategies and instruments were not sufficiently strong. Actual implementation suffered from a lack of political ownership and a weak governance structure, with insufficient focus on communicating simultaneously the benefits of the Lisbon reforms and the implications of a failure to reform. Labour market segmentation still persists and a large percentage of the jobs created before the crisis was precarious to varying degrees. During the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy a number of initiatives were taken to establish an assessment framework to help monitor and assess progress made in the Member States. These involved in particular the work of the Council’s Economic Policy Committee on the Lisbon assessment framework and that of its Employment Committee on a flexicurity methodology. The Commission's proposals for country-specific recommendations were largely based on those methodological frameworks and on the large number of monitoring indicators available. The Commission believes that this work is vital to stepping up ownership of the new strategy and that it should be continued and adapted to the latter. The Commission also believes that the Open Method of Coordination has contributed to implementing the Lisbon Strategy and the European Employment Strategy over the last decade. The Open Method involves a number of tools, such as peer reviews and mutual learning programmes, for effective multinational surveillance of implementation of reform across the Member States. The Open Method under the European Employment Strategy (Article 148 TFEU) does not provide for sanctions to be imposed on Member States that fail to implement measures under the new strategy. Demographic change is and remains a big challenge for the European Union.