the facts regarding responsibility for the terrorist attacks of 11 March. As regards Italy, Parliament said " there could be a risk of breaches of the right to freedom of expression and information ". Parliament noted that " the level of concentration of the television market is currently the highest within Europe... One of the sectors in which the conflict of interest is most obvious is advertising ". It noted " therefore, that the Italian system presents an anomaly owing to a unique combination of economic, political and media power in the hands of one man - the current President of the Italian Council of Ministers ". MEPs invited the Italian Parliament to " accelerate its work on the reform of the audiovisual sector in accordance with the recommendations of the Italian constitutional court and the President of the Republic, taking account of the provisions in the Gasparri bill which are incompatible with Community law, as noted by those authorities ". MEPs voiced concern that the situation in Italy could arise in other Member States if a media magnate chose to enter politics. MEPs made a number of recommendations. They called on the Commission to draw up a directive to safeguard media pluralism in Europe. MEPs believe protection of media diversity should become the priority of EU competition law and the dominant position of a media company should be considered as an obstacle to media pluralism in the EU. Legislation should be adopted at EU level to prohibit political figures from having major economic interests in the media. In addition, an annual report on pluralism should be drawn up. The EU Constitution should contain a provision on the need to ensure pluralism in the media. Member States should incorporate in their constitutions an active duty to promote respect for freedom and diversity of the media. Press enquiries: Pia Siitonen (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73612 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 41498 e-mail : libe-press@europarl.eu.int Defending the EU's common values Johannes VOGGENHUBER (Greens/EFA, A) Report on the Commission communication on Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union: Respect for and promotion of the values on which the Union is based ( COM(2003) 606 – C5-0594/2003 – 2003/2249(INI)) Doc.: A5-0227/2004 Procedure : Own-initiative Debate : 19.04.2004 Vote: 20.04.2004 Vote Parliament adopted by 383 votes in favour, 30 against with 52 abstentions an own-initiative report on Article 7 of the EU Treaty, which covers the respect and promotion of the democratic values on which the EU is based. This forms Parliament's response to a Commission communication on the subject. MEPs believe that, by saying that it will not be necessary to apply the sanctions provided for in Article 7, the Commission gives the impression that the EU has neither the will nor the means to defend its values. They also consider that the absence of a Parliamentary right of initiative for the procedure to deal with serious breaches does not prevent Parliament from using its power of oversight to exert political pressure on the Council to act. MEPs say that the application of Article 7 should be based