of recognition within and between education systems; 8. Calls on the Member States to ensure that vocational training and life-long-learning are geared more closely to the needs of the labour market and allow for entry into and mobility within it; stresses. moreover. the need for better and greater interaction between the world of education, work, vocational education and training as a vital link between the world of education and that of work; calls, therefore, on the Member States to foster the individual's continuing need for qualifications, development and lifelong learning; 9. Points out that the link between education and training, particularly the pathway from vocational to higher education, demands that the opportunities for link-ups between vocational training and university education be expanded, with special emphasis on integrating them into mechanisms for the provision of career information, guidance and counselling; also takes the view that switching between training and employment ensures that recipients of vocational training acquire the skills in demand on the labour market; 10. Emphasises the importance, at local and regional level, of fostering effective synergies and reliable forms of cooperation between schools, training agencies, research centres and firms, in order to overcome the inward-looking nature of education systems and the mismatch between knowledge and skills and the needs of the labour market and to make young people, in particular women, more employable, with specific reference to vocational further education qualifications; 11. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to render the ESF management more flexible bearing in mind the changing nature of the labour market; 12. Welcomes the greater emphasis on a results-oriented learning approach and the fact that skills acquired informally or non-formally are to be recognised more widely; 13. Stresses the importance of initial training for teachers, as the quality of teachers and educators is reflected in the quality of teaching programmes and education as whole; 14. Calls on Member States and the Commission to further improve the recognition of informal and non-formal learning; points to best practices in this field, especially with ESF-funding, which prove that the recognition of skills, wherever they are learned, leads to more successful integration into the labour market; Vocational education 15. Calls on the Member States to offer a qualitatively high standard of vocational education, oriented towards work-based learning and the individual needs of the people concerned; believes, at the same time, that high-quality vocational education and training are fundamental to enabling Europe to establish itself as a knowledge society and to compete effectively in the globalised economy; 16. Notes that there is also an internal market in professional training, and calls on the Member States to establish more advice centres on training opportunities and professional mobility in their own country and in other Member States; 17. Is of the opinion that, in order to fully realise the EU 2020 flagship initiative ‘An Agenda for new skills and jobs’, the EU Institutions should embark on a more pragmatic, comprehensive and wide-ranging initiative supported by all Member States which should focus on connecting the areas of vocational education, professional qualifications, lifelong learning