it is fully transparent, from the start until the end. Indeed, every organisation, association, or even political party, will have the possibility to support the European Citizens' Initiatives of their choice as long as there is a full transparency regarding their support so that the signatories will know who is behind an initiative before they choose to support it or not. In order to avoid disappointment and frustration (that might be the direct consequence of the high expectations that surround the European Citizen' Initiative), your rapporteurs would also like to underline that not all successful Initiatives will end up with the Commission putting forward a legislative proposition. Indeed, the Commission's monopoly of legislative initiative prevails and, in the end, it will be the one deciding on the follow-up to be given to successful Citizens' Initiatives. Of course, this does not prevent the other EU institutions from voicing their opinion for or against any given matter. Last but not least, they would also like to stress that the European Citizens' Initiative is a new instrument of participatory democracy on a continental scale. Therefore, the present regulation may not be flawless and practice may present European decision-makers with new challenges. This is the reason why they asked the Commission to present a report on its implementation every three years and, if relevant, to propose a revision of the regulation. 23.11.2010 OPINION of the Committee on Petitions for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative ( COM(2010)0119 – C7‑0089/2010 – 2010/0074(COD) ) Rapporteurs(*): Gerald Häfner and Diana Wallis (*) Procedure with associated committees – Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure SHORT JUSTIFICATION At the end of March 2010 the European Commission officially tabled the text of the Draft Regulation which has formed the basis for the many debates, hearings and discussions which have taken place ever since. Such debates have not only been conducted in the Committees responsible - notably of course AFCO and PETI, but also during a joint AFCO-PETI meeting with National Parliaments. Almost all of the political groups in Parliament have also organised their own hearings on the subject and it is probably correct to say that never has there been such widespread and open debate about a Draft Regulation in the history of the Parliament's activities. Given the subject however, - the right of European citizens or legal residents to impact directly on the development European policies and legislative measures, much is at stake for all the institutions involved. Parliament recognised this when it agreed that, on an exceptional basis, the Petitions Committee would be involved in a legislative process, under the terms of Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, because of its knowledge and expertise in relation to the rights of citizens as expressed through the right of petition with which the 'Citizens' initiative' has much in common. This is, in fact, the first time the Petitions Committee has been involved in legislative activity of any sort. Parliament also considered it to