Question for written answer E-4645/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Charles Tannock (ECR) (22 June 2010) Subject: Inadequacies of excessive debt procedure protocol in calculating government debt Further to my question of 13 October 2009, E‑5274/09, although UK and EU accounting procedures calculate the UK national debt as a little under GBP 900 billion, independent economic analysis suggests that when ‘off-balance items’ such as PFIs and public pension liabilities are taken into account the true level of the debt inherited by the incoming coalition is closer to GBP 3 trillion. Furthermore, aside from the reckless spending of the outgoing British Government, it is reported that the Greek Government, advised by the American investment bank Goldman and Sachs, has also found ways to disguise the true size of its Public Sector Borrowing Requirement. Crucial to these discrepancies is the manner in which national debt is calculated. In his very helpful answer to Written Question E‑5274/09, Commissioner Almunia lists the categories of debt laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 479/2009 OJ L 145, 10.6.2009, p. 1 . on the application of the Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community. The Commissioner does not give details in his answer as to exactly which items are considered ‘loans’ under the ESA95 system of national accounts, although presumably loans that arise out of sales of gilts are included. Can the Commission confirm that PFIs are not included as ‘loans’ and, if so, explain why this is the case given that a contract with a private developer to build a major hospital which commits the government to paying GBP 2 billion or GBP 3 billion to that contractor for over a period of twenty or thirty years is a form of loan (even if it is not a loan secured through the gilts market)? Does the Commission agree that it makes little sense to crack down on accounting practices that disguise ‘off-balance items’ of companies and banks if it is not prepared to do the same for Member States? Furthermore, does the Commission agree that more rigorous enforcement of the Growth and Stability Pact within the eurozone will of itself be insufficient to generate stability for the euro unless there is also a general recognition that all forms of debt need to be taken into account when assessing a Member State's compliance with the Pact, even if that involves changes to the protocols or to the manner in which those protocols are interpreted by the Commission?