known or brought to their attention, Irish and German regulators' CoB supervision belatedly improved. 25. In general terms, the statements heard and submitted strongly suggest that regulatory supervision of life insurance in the Member States affected has improved in the past five years, in particular where a single insurance supervisory authority now covers both prudential and CoB supervision. Communication failures between UK and foreign regulators 26. Many accounts supported the claim that communications between the UK, Irish, German and other regulators in relation to ELAS were unsatisfactory, if not clearly deficient, throughout the 1990s and up to 2002. In particular, the committee considers that the communications, if any, which took place were totally insufficient to deal with such an important issue as the ELAS crisis with obvious cross-border implications. 27. The committee firmly believes that the regulators' interpretation of the home/host country responsibilities in supervising life assurance companies was far too passive, with one tending to rely on the other. As confirmed by a number of statements, this behaviour itself contributed to a further weakening of the regulatory environment and led in particular to non-UK policyholders falling between two stools and the host regulator in Ireland and Germany appearing to be mere bystanders with little control over the insurance business being done in their territory, let alone in other Member States. The committee therefore supports work to examine the possibility of future regulatory supervision of companies at group level, in order to clarify regulatory responsibilities. 28. Statements and material provided to the committee give it reasons to believe that the communication between insurance regulators has improved since 2004 due to the closer cooperation of regulators within the newly created CEIOPS network of European regulators, which aims at a higher performance in cross-border supervision and regulatory action but too late to assist ELAS policy holders in the lead-in to the crisis. 29. However, the committee considers that where the host State notifies no "general good" rules to the home State authority, there is an inherent risk that neither the home nor the host supervisor looks at conduct of business rules because each would think that the other was enforcing its own rules. 30. Overall, the committee concluded that the development of the internal market in financial services was pursued ahead of concerns about ensuring that sufficient consumer safeguards were in place. PART IV - REMEDIES on the status of claims and adequacy of remedies available to policy holders INDEX PART IV I. Introduction II. Damages 1. Policyholders affected 2. Collective losses 3. Individual losses III. Complaints to the UK regulators and official investigations 1. Complaints to the FSA 2. The Baird Report 2. The Penrose Report IV. Actions by ELAS in relation to aggrieved policyholders 1. Litigation against former directors and auditors 2. The Compromise Scheme 3. Complaints to ELAS and 'Policy Reviews' V. Allegations of fraud and the UK Serious Fraud Office VI. Claims against ELAS for mis-selling 1. Non-judicial - the UK Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) a) Introduction b) Treatment of Equitable Life complaints c) Policyholders' criticism of the FOS's handling