to reduce frequency of application by use of non-chemical pest control methods and systems; – Training of agricultural advisers in non-chemical pest control methods and systems; – Research into possible use reductions through the application of better spraying equipment, methods and techniques. Information, education and training: – Education of all pesticide operators on health hazards posed by pesticides as well as on non-chemical pest control methods and systems; – Guidance for pesticide operators, e.g. on storage and handling of pesticides. Pesticide application equipment: – Inspection of equipment in use. Financial instruments: – Financial support for implementation of Integrated Pest Management standards and practices; – Financial support for other measures to reduce pesticide use; – Greater application of cross-compliance mechanisms. ANNEX V Elements for general and crop-specific Integrated Pest Management criteria Integrated Pest Management as a minimum includes the following general criteria: (a) The prevention and/or suppression of harmful organisms should be achieved or supported among other options especially by: – use of optimum crop rotation achieving a balanced population of soil organisms and maintenance of a healthy soil, in order to prevent outbreak of soil-bound pests and to eliminate use of soil fumigants and other soil chemicals; – building a soil structure that can support a healthy crop, for instance by stimulating the percentage of organic matter, limiting depth of ploughing, preventing erosion, applying optimum crop sequence; – use of adequate cultivation techniques, e.g. stale seedbed technique, sowing dates and densities, under-sowing, optimal plant distance, conservation tillage, hygiene measures, pruning; – use of the best available resistant/tolerant cultivars and approved/certified seed and planting material; – use of balanced fertilisation based on information concerning nutrients already present in the soil and the soil structure, liming and irrigation/drainage practices to reduce susceptibility to pests and diseases. Use of groundwater for irrigation should be avoided; – preventing the spread of harmful organisms through machinery and equipment; – protection and enhancement of important beneficial organisms, for instance by using ecological infrastructures inside and outside production sites, setting aside a minimum percentage of total field area, planting of plant species to attract natural enemies of pests. (b) Harmful organisms must be monitored with appropriate methods and tools. Such tools should include scientifically sound warning, forecasting and early diagnosis systems, where feasible, as well as professionally qualified advisers, such as those provided for by state and private extension services. (c) Based on the results of the monitoring the professional user has to decide whether and when to apply plant protection measures. Robust and scientifically sound threshold values are essential components for decision making. For harmful organisms threshold levels defined for the region must be taken into account before treatment, where feasible. (d) Biological, physical, mechanical and other non-chemical methods must be preferred to chemical methods whenever feasible. Against weeds, mechanical weeding or other non-chemical methods such as use of heat should be preferred. Exceptions should be allowed only in case of bad weather conditions during a prolonged period of time that makes mechanical weeding unfeasible. (e) The pesticide applied shall be as specific as possible for the target