granted under this Regulation. In that case, the Commission shall initiate, within the framework of this Regulation, specific action aimed at resolving the problems hindering the pre-accession or accession process. Amendment 30 Article 17, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The European Parliament may request the Commission to submit a proposal to the Council pursuant to paragraph 2 on taking appropriate steps with regard to any assistance granted under this Regulation. The Commission shall submit its proposal to the Council within 3 months of receiving the request, or shall give its reasons for not doing so. Amendment 31 Article 18 If a beneficiary country listed in Annex I of this Regulation is, pursuant to a decision of the Council acting under Art. 49, paragraph 1, first sentence of the Treaty on European Union, granted Candidate status, the Council, acting by qualified majority on the basis of a proposal from the Commission will transfer that country from Annex I to Annex II. 1. If a beneficiary country listed in Annex I of this regulation is, pursuant to a decision of the Council acting under Article 49, paragraph 1, first sentence of the Treaty on European Union, granted Candidate status, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on the basis of a proposal from the Commission , and after consulting the European Parliament, will transfer that country from Annex I to Annex II. Amendment 32 Article 18, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. If the European Council recognises a State as a potential candidate for membership of the European Union, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on the basis of a proposal from the Commission, and after consulting the European Parliament, shall include that country in Annex I. Amendment 33 Article 20 a (new) Article 20a 1. Not later than 30 June 2010, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council a report on the implementation of this Regulation together with a legislative proposal introducing the necessary modifications. 2. The European Parliament and the Council, acting on a proposal by the Commission, shall re-examine this Regulation by 31 December 2013.