Answer given by Ms Reding on behalf of the Commission (24 February 2009) The Commission fully understands the Honourable Member's concerns about the possible adverse impact of the amendment of the TV Tax Law on the functioning of media pluralism in Italy. Given that public authorities assign radio spectrum for terrestrial broadcasting, and that spectrum is a scarce resource, licensing procedures must be public, transparent, non-discriminatory and objective in order to ensure that a pluralistic range of services is available to the public. The Honourable Member's questions raise issues of consistency between notions such as technological neutrality, fiscal neutrality and how far different activities and business models are really in competition with each other. Technology neutrality is a high-level principle in both the electronic communications framework and the Audiovisual Media Services Directive (AVMS) Directive 2007/65/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2007 amending Council Directive 89/552/EEC on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities, OJ L 332, 18.12.2007. . Public policy should be neutral towards different network delivery mechanisms such as terrestrial, cable, satellite and Internet Protocol Television (IPTV), as network operators should benefit from the same incentives to invest in additional capacity and compete with each other. The AVMS Directive applies technological neutrality through a common set of regulatory principles to both linear TV services and new, nonlinear services. However, that does not mean regulation is applied to both types of service in the same way. In line with another principle — that public authorities should only regulate to the extent necessary — the requirements relating to on-demand services are lighter than those imposed on linear services. Fiscal neutrality requires that similar activities have the same tax treatment. Public authorities can however vary the tax treatment of activities considered to be different, even if the underlying technology is the same. The tax treatment of pay TV and free-to-air television may therefore be different, given that pay TV is an elective service at consumer discretion while free-to-air TV is pervasive and widely acknowledged to carry a heavier weight of public interest. It is worth noting in parenthesis that competition cases have frequently considered free-to-air TV and pay TV to be separate markets. Clearly, the tax treatment of newspapers may also differ from that of different audiovisual services. At the discretion of Member States, newspapers may benefit from a low rate of value added tax (VAT), often applied because of their historic contribution to media pluralism. The Commission draws the Honourable Member's attention to Articles 93 to 130 and Annex III and IV of the VAT Directive 2006/112/EC Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, OJ L 347, 11.12.2006. . These provisions set out a legal framework for the application of VAT rates in the Member States. According to these rules Member States may apply the reduced VAT rates only to the categories of goods and services specified in the annex III to the VAT