Community research, technological development and demonstration programmes. It should be noted that the first paragraph of Article 172 provides as follows: " The Council, acting by qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt the provisions referred to in Article 171." The article proposed as the legal basis by the ITRE committee is Article 80(2), which applies to the common transport policy: Article 80 1. The provisions of this title shall apply to transport by rail, road and inland waterway. 2. The Council may, acting by a qualified majority, decide whether, to what extent and by what procedure appropriate provisions may be laid down for sea and air transport. The procedural provisions of Article 71 shall apply. The relevant Treaty articles relating to TENs (GALLILEO having been based on Article 156) are as follows: Article 155 1. In order to achieve the objectives referred to in Article 154, the Community: - shall establish a series of guidelines covering the objectives, priorities and broad lines of measures envisaged in the sphere of trans-European networks; these guidelines shall identify projects of common interest, - shall implement any measures that may prove necessary to ensure the interoperability of the networks, in particular in the field of technical standardisation, - may support projects of common interest supported by Member States, which are identified in the framework of the guidelines referred to in the first indent, particularly through feasibility studies, loan guarantees or interest-rate subsidies; the Community may also contribute, through the Cohesion Fund set up pursuant to Article 161, to the financing of specific projects in Member States in the area of transport infrastructure. The Community's activities shall take into account the potential economic viability of the projects. 2. Member States shall, in liaison with the Commission, coordinate among themselves the policies pursued at national level which may have a significant impact on the achievement of the objectives referred to in Article 154. The Commission may, in close cooperation with the Member State , take any useful initiative to promote such coordination. 3. The Community may decide to cooperate with third countries to promote projects of mutual interest and to ensure the interoperability of networks. Article 156 The guidelines and other measures referred to in Article 155(1) shall be adopted by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. Guidelines and projects of common interest which relate to the territory of a Member State shall require the approval of the Member State concerned. General remarks on legal basis All Community acts must be founded upon a legal basis laid down in the Treaty (or in another legal act which they are intended to implement). The legal basis defines the Community's competence ratione materiae and specifies how that competence is to be exercised, namely the legislative instrument(s) which may be used and the decision-making procedure. In view of the consequences of the legal basis,