Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (10 December 2010) The figure of EUR 609 million recently reported was in the context of Commissioner Füle’s visit to Egypt on 11 October 2010. During his visit he discussed the Commission’s development cooperation programme with Egyptian Ministers. While in Cairo he signed a memorandum of understanding on the National Indicative Programme 2011‑13 which will provide EUR 449 million over the next three years. He also signed several Financing Agreements amounting to EUR 160 million which were largely made available under the 2007‑10 National Indicative Programme (NIP). The Netherlands did not contribute directly to the funds mentioned in the article as they are provided through the EU budget. The EU‑Egypt Association Agreement, the European Neighbourhood Policy and the EU‑Egypt Action Plan, provide the overall framework for our cooperation with Egypt setting a wide-ranging agenda for intensified Egypt-EU relations aiming at deepening and broadening relations through cooperation in areas of mutual interest and through political dialogue. The EU’s financial support through the NIP focuses on three main priorities in line with Egypt’s development plans and the EU’s strategic interests, namely (1) support to Egypt’s reforms in democracy, human rights, good governance and justice, (2) development of the competiveness and productivity of the economy and (3) sustainability of the development process with better management of human and natural resources. All of this funding is agreed by the Member States and the Parliament. The Commission provides all of its financial assistance to partner countries in and open and transparent manner. Commission Decisions on financial cooperation for all countries are made public and information on individual programmes is provided on the website of the EU Delegation to Egypt http://www.delegy.ec.europa.eu . Our cooperation programmes are communicated to the Egyptian and European public and other stakeholders through press releases and other visibility events. All EU programmes are prepared in line with the provisions of the EU financial regulation. In addition, all programmes are monitored and evaluated on a regular basis by staff of the Commission, independent monitors and evaluators. Furthermore, all programmes are subject to internal and external independent audits, and they are also subject to oversight by the European Court of Auditors which regularly audits our programmes in Egypt. All of these measures are taken to ensure that European funds are spent in a transparent and regular manner and produce effective and sustainable development results. Any suspicions of misuse of funds are immediately investigated, including if necessary by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), and, if need be, funds are recovered and returned to the EU budget.