P5_TA(2001)0038 Human rights: Situation in Turkish prisons B5-0059 , 0065 , 0072 , 0077 and 0082/2001 European Parliament resolution on the situation in Turkish prisons The European Parliament, A. whereas Turkey is a signatory to the European Human Rights Convention and to international conventions against torture and on political, civil, social and cultural rights, B. whereas reports indicate that some 1000 prisoners have been involved in hunger strikes in protest, among other things, against transfer to the new F-type prisons now under construction, C. whereas Operation Return to Life, which the security forces launched on 19 December 2000 against hunger strikers in twenty prisons, has resulted in the death of at least 31 prisoners and two members of the security forces and has left more than 130 people seriously wounded, D. whereas the Turkish authorities have recognised the need for prison reform, both in the interests of the prisoners themselves and to re-establish the authorities' rule over prison wards where groups of prisoners had taken control, E. whereas prison reform is an indispensable feature of Turkey's responsibilities as a candidate for membership of the European Union, 1. Deplores the recent violence in Turkish prisons and shares in the grief of the victims' families and condemns any excessive use of force by the security forces in interventions in the prison system; calls on the Turkish Government and Parliament to set up an independent committee of inquiry; 2. Urges the Turkish authorities to take immediate and appropriate non-violent measures to avert further tragedies; 3. Supports the demands that the prisoners be examined professionally by independent doctors designated by the medical profession; 4. Urges the Turkish authorities to build a new social and political consensus on prison reform based on peaceable methods, respect for human rights and international best practice; 5. Welcomes the invitations by the Turkish authorities to the Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe to visit Turkish prisons and urges early completion and publication of the report by the President of the Committee following visits in December 2000 and January 2001; 6. Calls on the Turkish Government to allow a delegation of Members of the European Parliament to visit the prisons to which transfers have been made; 7. Notes that these events attest to the urgency of continuing work on the reform of the Penal Code and of implementing without delay the reforms needed to improve the prison and judicial systems; 8. Regrets the selective character of the recent clemency law and urges that major steps be taken towards the release of political prisoners; 9. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the Government of Turkey, the Turkish Grand National Assembly and the Council of Europe.