has received, in the official languages, an initiative, together with an explanatory statement confirming the initiative's conformity with the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality annexed to the EC Treaty. CHAPTER 2 PROCEDURE IN COMMITTEE Rule 42 Legislative reports 1. The chairman of the committee to which a Commission proposal has been referred shall propose to the committee the procedure to be followed. 2. Following a decision on the procedure to be followed, and if Rule 43 does not apply, the committee shall appoint a rapporteur on the Commission proposal from among its members or permanent substitutes if it has not yet done so on the basis of the annual legislative programme agreed under Rule 33. 3. The committee's report shall comprise: (a) draft amendments, if any, to the proposal, accompanied, if appropriate, by short justifications which shall be the responsibility of the rapporteur and shall not be put to the vote; (b) a draft legislative resolution, in accordance with Rule 51(2); (c) if appropriate, an explanatory statement including a financial statement which establishes the magnitude of any financial impact of the report and its compatibility with the financial perspective. Rule 43 Simplified procedure 1. Following a first discussion of a legislative proposal, the chairman may propose that it be approved without amendment. Unless at least one-tenth of the members of the committee object, the chairman shall present to Parliament a report approving the proposal. Rule 131(1), second subparagraph, (2) and (4) shall apply. 2. The chairman may alternatively propose that he or the rapporteur draft a set of amendments reflecting the committee's discussion. If the committee so agrees, these amendments shall be sent to the members of the committee. Unless at least one-tenth of the members of the committee object within a set time limit, which may not be less than twenty-one days from the date of dispatch, the report shall be considered as having been adopted by the committee. In this case the draft legislative resolution and the amendments shall be submitted to Parliament without debate pursuant to Rule 131(1), second subparagraph, (2) and (4). 3. If at least one-tenth of the committee's members object, the amendments shall be put to the vote at the next meeting of the committee. 4. The first and second sentences of paragraph 1, the first, second and third sentences of paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to committee opinions within the meaning of Rule 46. Rule 44 Non-legislative reports 1. Where a committee draws up a non-legislative report, it shall appoint a rapporteur from among its members or permanent substitutes. 2. The rapporteur shall be responsible for preparing the committee's report and for presenting it to Parliament on behalf of the committee. 3. The committee's report shall comprise: (a) a motion for a resolution; (b) an explanatory statement including a financial statement which establishes the magnitude of any financial impact of the report and its compatibility with the financial perspective; (c) the texts of any motions for resolutions to be included under Rule 113(4). Rule 45