Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (14 April 2011) The logic of the stress test for Member States' public finances is already incorporated in the common fiscal framework of the European Union. For instance, in the context of the examination of the countries' Stability and Convergence Programmes, where Member States are requested to provide an analysis of how changes in the main economic assumptions would affect the budgetary and debt position and indicate the underlying assumptions about how revenue and expenditure are projected to react to variations in economic variables. This should include the impact of different interest rate assumptions and, for non‑euro area Member States, of different exchange rate assumptions, on the budgetary and debt position. The safety margin with respect to the 3 % of GDP deficit threshold in the Treaty, which Member States' medium-term budgetary objectives are required to provide, is also based on an approach that aims at ensuring that this deficit limit is not breached against normal cyclical fluctuations. The exact format of the proposed second test for an exceptionally negative, but not unrealistic, economic scenario is extremely difficult to predict ex-ante . Furthermore, it is not evident that prevention of negative financial developments should be addressed primarily through fiscal policy: in other words it would not be reasonable to prescribe that a country should run very large surpluses in normal time to insure against the occurrence of a financial crisis. Most likely, the response should come from micro and macro-prudential supervision. European supervisory arrangements have been recently strengthened with the establishment of the European System of Financial Supervision, which includes three European supervisory authorities and a European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB). In particular, according to the ESRB Regulation Regulation 1092/2010 of the Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010, on European Union macro-prudential oversight of the financial system and establishing a European Systemic Risk Board, OJ L 331, 15.12.2010. : ‘The ESRB shall be responsible for the macro-prudential oversight of the financial system within the Union in order to contribute to the prevention or mitigation of systemic risks to financial stability in the Union that arise from developments within the financial system and taking into account macroeconomic developments, so as to avoid periods of widespread financial distress’. The Commission provides inputs to the ESRB for the fulfilment of its tasks.