the use of low-risk plant protection products as defined in Article [50(1)] of Regulation (EC) No … [concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market]. 3 . Member States shall establish or support the establishment of all necessary conditions for implementation of integrated pest management and non-chemical methods of plant protection and pest and crop management, and shall draw up descriptions of the best integrated crop protection practices, assigning priority to non-chemical crop protection . 4 . In particular, Member States shall ensure that farmers have at their disposal systems, including training in accordance with Article 5, and tools for pest monitoring and decision making, as well as advisory services on non-chemical methods of plant protection and pest and crop management. 5 . By 30 June 2011 , Member States will report to the Commission on the implementation of paragraphs 3 and 4 , and in particular, whether the necessary conditions for implementation of integrated pest management are in place. 6. Minimum requirements for the development of general standards of Integrated Pest Management are defined in Annex V. 7 . Member States shall ensure that, at the latest by 1 January 2014, all professional users of pesticides implement the general standards for Integrated Pest Management. 8. Amendments to Annex V shall be adopted using the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 20(2). 9 . Member States shall establish appropriate incentives , training and financial measures to assist users to implement crop-specific or sector-specific guidelines for Integrated Pest Management which take account of the general criteria described in Annex V. In their national action plans pursuant to Article 4, Member States shall refer to the appropriate guidelines . 10 . The general standards for Integrated Pest Management ▐shall be developed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article [58] of Regulation (EC) No …[concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market] , with public participation of interested stakeholders . 11 . The crop-specific standards for Integrated Pest Management referred to in paragraph 9 may be developed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 6(3) of Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and of rules on Information Society services OJ L 204, 21.7.1998, p. 37. Directive as last amended by Council Directive 2006/96/EC (OJ L 363, 20.12.2006, p.81). . Chapter V Indicators, Reporting and Information Exchange Article 15 Indicators 1. The Commission shall, in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 20(2) , develop harmonised risk and use indicators. Until those indicators are adopted, Member States may continue to use existing national indicators or adopt other appropriate indicators. 2. Member States shall use statistical data collected in accordance with Regulation (EC) No […] [ of the European Parliament and of the Council of ... concerning statistics on plant protection products ] OJ L ... for the following purposes: a) calculation of common and harmonised risk and