by a committee, composed of one representative per State and chaired by a representative of the Commission. The representative per State shall be designated from the national intermediary body as referred to in Article 5(2). 1. The Commission shall be assisted by an advisory committee, composed of one representative per Member State and chaired by a representative of the Commission. The representative shall be designated preferably from the National Implementing Body as referred to in Article 5(1). Justification This change arises from the new Article 5 as amended by the rapporteur with a view to simplifying the administrative and financial management of this event. Amendment 33 Article 7, paragraph 2 2. Measures which are local, regional or national, as described in Part II(4) of the Annex, may be co-financed from the general budget of the European Communities up to a maximum of 50% of the total consolidated costs of the actions implemented at local, regional or national levels, and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 5(2). 2. Measures which are local, regional or national, as described in Part II(5) of the Annex, may be co-financed from the general budget of the European Communities up to a maximum of 50% of the total consolidated costs of the actions implemented at local, regional or national levels, and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Part II of the Annex. Justification This change arises from the new Article 5 as amended by the rapporteur with a view to simplifying the administrative and financial management of this event. Amendment 34 Article 8, paragraph 2 2. Requests for financial assistance for measures under Article 7(2) shall be submitted to the national intermediary bodies set up by the States. On the basis of the opinion expressed by the national co-ordinating bodies, the national intermediary bodies shall select beneficiaries and allocate financial assistance to the applicants selected in accordance with the procedures referred to in Article 5(3). 2. Requests for financial assistance for measures under Article 7(2) shall be submitted to the Commission by the National Implementing Bodies set up by the Member States in accordance with the procedure set out in Part II of the Annex. Justification This change arises from the new Article 5 as amended by the rapporteur with a view to simplifying the administrative and financial management of this event. Amendment 35 Article 9, paragraph 1 The Commission together with the participating countries shall ensure consistency between the measures provided for in this Decision and other Community, national and regional action and initiatives. The Commission together with the Member States shall ensure consistency between the measures provided for in this Decision and other Community, national and regional action and initiatives. Amendment 36 Article 10, title Participating countries Participation of Non-Member States Justification Clarification. Amendment 37 Article 10, paragraph 1, points (a) to (c) (a) Member States (a) countries with which the European Union has signed a Treaty of Accession; (b) EFTA states that are party to the EEA Agreement in accordance with the provision of that agreement; (b) Candidate countries benefiting