WRITTEN QUESTION E-5043/09 by Corina Creţu (S-D) to the Commission (15 October 2009) Subject: European Commission action to combat child poverty in the EU, especially under the impact of the economic crisis The percentage of Romanians living in poverty has risen by 1.7 % this year as against 2008, to stand at 7.4 %, and according to the World Bank’s Strategic Partnership with Romania for the period 2009‑13, children are among those worst affected. Its estimates show the proportion of children living in absolute poverty to stand at 10.7 % in 2009, up from 7.8 % in 2008. What this means is that one in ten Romanian children are living in absolute poverty. This has a disastrous impact not only on the normal physical and psychological growth and development of those children, but also on their chances of completing their schooling and integrating smoothly into society. These distressing circumstances are not peculiar to Romania and the other new Member States; children throughout the European Union are affected by poverty — albeit to a different degree and in different ways — all the more so with the current economic recession exacerbating that poverty and increasing the number of children in need in all the Member States. A recent study by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development has revealed, for example, that one in six German children are also living in poverty. Last year, before the crisis erupted, a European Parliament report warned that 19 million of Europe’s 78 million poor were children, before taking into account the children of immigrants, asylum‑seekers or illegal immigrants. That number is now even higher and the scourge of poverty is growing in proportion by the day. Can the Commission state how it intends to resolve the sad paradox of a rich continent which has children in poverty, bearing in mind that all the facets of life in our future societies — be these demographic, economic, social or cultural, etc. — depend on the children of today, an increasing number of whom are innocent victims of the terrible and traumatising malaise of poverty?