to determine whether the mass concentrations of VOCs found in each category of decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products covered by this Directive are within the permitted limits. Justification Need for scope consistency and legal clarity. Amendment 8 Recital 11 (11) Council Directive 1999/13/EC of 11 March 1999 on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in certain activities and installations should therefore be amended accordingly. (11) Council Directive 1999/13/EC of 11 March 1999 on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in vehicle refinishing activities and installations should therefore be amended accordingly. Justification Need for scope consistency and legal clarity. Amendment 9 Recital 14 (14) This Directive does not prejudice nor affect measures taken at Community or national level to protect the health of workers and their working environment. (14) This Directive does not prejudice nor affect existing or new measures taken at Community or national level to protect the health of workers and their working environment. Justification It is important to make it clear that Member States which already have a high level of worker protection may continue to maintain this high standard. Amendment 10 Article 1, paragraph 2 (a) (new) 2(a) This directive does not impede Member States from taking measures to protect workers and consumers and in this way they may prohibit or restrict the use of certain high VOC-containing products. Justification This directive aims to prevent and reduce emissions of VOC due to the use of solvents in paints and varnishes, with the specific aim of reaching the NEC-goals in 2010 as the VOCs are ozone precursors. It lays down VOC content limits which should never be exceeded by any product in the EU. This directive however should not prevent Member States to take the necessary measures to improve further workers health and consumers health when dealing with these products. More than 1.5 million painters and decorators in the EU work with these products and often suffer from various health problems. Due to the differences in climate and culture, some MS might want to impose healthier norms for certain categories, restrict the use of specific products.This directive should be seen as harmonising on a maximum content without restricting MS to go further. Amendment 11 Article 2, paragraph 2 2. VOC content limit value means the mass of volatile organic compounds, expressed in terms of certain specific parameters, such as concentration expressed in g/l, which may not be exceeded in the formulation of the product; 2. VOC content limit value means the mass of volatile organic compounds , excluding any part that reacts during drying of the coating, expressed in terms of certain specific parameters, such as concentration expressed in g/l, which may not be exceeded in the formulation of the product ready for use ; Justification This modification is necessary to allow the use of reactive diluents, which are substances that behave like solvents during the application phase but then react to form part of the film of varnish,