11.6.2008 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on statements by the Council and Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Janusz Onyszkiewicz on behalf of the ALDE Group on the preparations for the 11th EU-Russia Summit in Khanty-Mansiysk in June 2008 European Parliament resolution on the preparations for the 11th EU-Russia Summit in Khanty-Mansiysk in June 2008 The European Parliament , – having regard to the EU-Russia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which entered into force in 1997 and is still in force, – having regard to the EU-Russia Consultations on Human Rights, – having regard to its previous reports and resolutions on Russia and on EU-Russia relations, in particular the resolution of 26 May 2005 P6_TA(2005)0207 . , the resolutions on the previous EU-Russia summits, the resolution of 25 October 2006 P6_TA(2006)0448 . on EU-Russia relations following the murder of Anna Politkovskaya, the resolution of 26 April 2007 P6_TA(2007)0169 . on the repression of opposition demonstrations and the resolution of 19 June 2007 on EU economic and trade relations with Russia P6_TA(2007)0262 . , – having regard to the outcome of the 10th EU-Russia summit held in Mafra on 26 October 2007, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the European Union continues to be committed to further deepening and developing relations between the European Union and Russia, B. whereas EU-Russia relations are facing a number of serious challenges which are not of the EU's making, notably as regards the widespread concern over democracy and human rights in Russia, over the independence of the judiciary, over increased control of the media, over the inability of the Russian police and judicial authorities to find those responsible for murders of journalists, over repressive measures taken against the opposition, over the selective application of the law by the authorities and over the fairness of the recently held elections, C. whereas the European Union must speak with one voice in its relations with Russia and base its relations with Russia on solidarity and adherence to the EU's values, despite Russia's insistence on focussing on bilateral relations with some of the EU Member States, D. whereas the evolution of the political system in Russia under Vladimir Putin's presidency raises doubts about the prospects of building a 'strategic partnership based on common values', and whereas more realistic cooperation based on a firm and united stand by all Member States should be developed, E. whereas the changes in the Russian leadership following last year's Duma elections and the Presidential elections earlier this year may impart new impetus to EU-Russia relations, to improvements in Russia's relations with some of its close neighbours and to the development of democracy and the rule of law in Russia, F. whereas economic and trade relations between the EU and Russia are evidence of increasing mutual interdependency between the EU and Russia, which necessitates a joint effort and commitment to ensure sustainable growth, 1. Notes that the Summit in Khanty-Mansiysk will be the first summit for President Medvedev and comes at a