joint initiatives at international level. The proposed Strategic Partnership represents a key step forward and will be vital for the consolidation of the existing relations with Mexico and developing coordination on issues of world importance. It is here explicitly proposed that the new partnership should institutionalise the annual EU-Mexico summits along lines similar to those already existing for the summits with the US, China, Russia and Brazil. This would need to be done in such a way as not to undermine the dialogue mechanisms already in place under the Global Agreement. The parliamentary dialogue via the EU-Mexico JPC and EUROLAT is a crucial additional means of developing relations between the two parties. The present recommendation to the Council sets out the main aspects and subject areas for which closer coordination and cooperation are needed, while also calling for clear guidelines on the best means of cooperating closely to encourage an effective multilateralism and deal with shared threats and new challenges. Only thus will the new Strategic Partnership make it possible to bridge the existing gaps and harmonise our respective positions on issues of world importance, thus reinforcing bilateral relations between the EU and Mexico. 15.9.2008 PROPOSAL FOR A RECOMMENDATION TO THE COUNCIL ( B6‑0437/2008 ) tabled pursuant to Rule 114(1) of the Rules of Procedure by José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on an EU-Mexico Strategic Partnership The European Parliament , – having regard to the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament 'Towards an EU-Mexico Strategic Partnership' ( COM(2008)0447 ), – having regard to the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Mexican States, of the other OJ L 276, 28.10.2000, p. 45. , – having regard to the declaration of the Fifth Latin America and the Caribbean - European Union summit (EU-LAC), held in Lima (Peru) on 16 and 17 May 2008, – having regard to the joint communiqué of the Fourth Mexico-EU summit held in Lima, dated 17 May 2008, – having regard to the message from EUROLAT to the Fifth EU-LAC Summit, – having regard to its resolution of 24 April 2008 on the Fifth EU-LAC Summit held in Lima Texts adopted, P6_TA(2008)0177 . , – having regard to Rule 114(1) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the EU-Mexico Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement (the 'Global Agreement'), signed in 1997 and in force since 2000, has three pillars: political dialogue; the gradual creation of a free-trade area; and cooperation; whereas, since the agreement came into force in 2000 relations between the two sides have been marked by deepening and consolidation, both politically and in the trade and cooperation fields, B. whereas since 2004 the EU and Mexican institutions have intensified their high-level contacts, both bilaterally and in the framework of the Global Agreement, C. whereas the deepening of EU-Mexico relations can help enhance the consensus between the EU and its Latin American partners on regional and global issues, D. whereas the Strategic Partnership implies