Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (19 July 2011) The EU is aware of the situation faced by the Falun Gong movement in Vietnam and that Vu Duc Trung, 30, and his brother-in-law Le Van Thanh, 35, were arrested in June 2010 in Hanoi on charges of ‘illegally transmitting information on the network of telecommunication’ under Article 226 of the Criminal Code. They are alleged to have installed without authorisation equipment intended to broadcast information about Falun Gong to China. Their trial was scheduled for 8 April 2011, but has been postponed. If convicted, these Falun Gong followers may face up to five years of imprisonment. Although Article 70 of the Vietnamese Constitution stipulates that citizens have the right to freedom of belief and religion, and may practise any religion, it also stipulates that ‘no one has the right to take advantage of freedom of religion and belief to violate State laws and policies’. The 2004 Ordinance on Religion and Belief also continues to encourage government control and oversight of religious organisations. Under its provisions, religious denominations must be officially recognised or registered, and the activities and leadership of individual religious congregations must be approved by the appropriate lower-level authorities. In April 2011, during a meeting with the Vice-Chairman of the Government Committee for Religious Affairs, representatives from the EU Delegation in Hanoi and from EU Member States raised the situation of Falun Gong in Vietnam. Their interlocutors were aware of the existence of some followers in the country but stressed that the Vietnamese authorities had never received any request to register Falun Gong as a religious organisation. The EU Delegation in Hanoi will continue to monitor closely the situation of Vu Duc Trung and Le Van Thanh, as well as that of Falun Gong followers in general. The EU is committed to freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of belief in Vietnam as elsewhere. The EU has raised the situation of religious freedom in Vietnam at all regular consultations on human rights, including during the last round of the EU‑Vietnam human rights dialogue which took place in December 2010 in Hanoi. The EU has also encouraged Vietnam to invite the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief to visit the country.