WRITTEN QUESTION E-4231/09 by John Bufton (EFD) to the Council (4 September 2009) Subject: Possibility of postponement of implementation of sheep EID in Wales and UK The recent concessions secured by the UK Government concerning the EU regulation on sheep electronic identification (EID) are not enough. This European regulation to tag 30 million sheep in the UK (9 million in Wales) on the basis of improving disease control has clearly not been thought through. In my opinion, the technology used for sheep EID has major flaws, at present it does not give accurate readings, so how on earth can a scheme of this magnitude be introduced when the equipment used is not up to scratch? I would like to raise the following questions: 1. What are the implications for farmers under cross-compliance? Will their single farm payment be affected due to scanning equipment not being accurate? 2. During spot inspections on farms, what penalties again will be given to farmers whose sheep have lost a tag? 3. Who will pay for the initial cost of tags, estimated to be 60 to 70 pence each? 4. Who will bear the cost of the scanning equipment on the farms and at the markets? 5. Will there be long queues for farmers at markets? For many farmers who move stock from one holding to another or out to tack, this procedure of recording individual movements will be time-consuming, costly and quite frankly unworkable. Surely there are three sensible concessions. — The scheme should be brought in only on a voluntary basis. — There should not be a requirement to EID any sheep until they leave the holding of birth. — Until the scanning equipment used is accurate, then under cross-compliance no penalty shall be applied to the single farm payment. I would urge the Council to consider these concessions in order to help our farming industry in the difficult climate that it currently faces. This issue is so serious it is above party politics. The farming industry in Wales and the rest of the UK is under severe risk. We must all do everything that we can to protect our sheep industry in the UK.