the implementation of strategy. The Council shall include a balanced contingent of experts from the participating European States and from the developing countries involved in the programme. It shall also include two representatives of the Commission and experts from the public or private structures involved in the programme and from other international programmes where appropriate. 2. The European economic interest grouping (EEIG), as established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2137/85 1 , which shall be the common structure. The EDCTP EEIG shall be the executive structure and the body responsible for receiving, allocating and monitoring financial contributions from the Community, and shall manage the programme through its secretariat. It shall comprise two main components: – the EEIG ‘Assembly’, which organ shall be the highest authority within the EEIG, and – the EEIG Secretariat, which shall provide administrative support for the work of the Partnership Council and the EDCTP Forum, and for that of the EEIG Assembly. Each Member State shall appoint a publicly funded organisation to be mandated or delegated by the Member State to be a member of the EEIG. These public institutions must be subject to supervision by a regional or national court of auditors. 1 OJ L 199, 31.10.1985, p. 1. Justification It is necessary to define more precisely how the structure will operate. To avoid distorting the structure of the decision, these specifications should be included in a new annex. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The Commission’s proposal represents something of a first, as Article 169, one of the new instruments at the disposal of the Sixth Framework Research and Development Programme, has never been applied. Under this article, the Community may participate in research and development programmes undertaken by several Member States. In this instance, the Commission proposes to use that possibility in connection with a programme involving cooperation between 14 Member States and Norway, and has already indicated that the fifteenth Member State, Luxembourg, also wishes to take part. The relevance of the legal basis might be open to question in the present case. The reason for using it is that the proposal does not only provide for a financial contribution of EUR 200 million from EU funds, but also for EUR 200 million deriving from the various participating States’ national research programmes. This will be supplemented by an additional EUR 200 million from the private sector, which have yet to be found. This gives a total of EUR 600 million as against the EUR 100 million invested under the Fifth Framework Research and Development Programme. However, even if this proposal marks a new departure in terms of its legal basis, it is directly in line with the Community’s long-term strategy to combat these three diseases which are responsible for over 5 million deaths a year. AIDS. Of the 40 million people carrying the HIV virus, 90% live in a developing country, and 70% live in sub-Saharan Africa. Research is in progress and has resulted in new treatments which are recognised as effective, but are still unaffordable and inaccessible in practical terms for people living in developing countries. It