the regulators and EL, describing such accusations as " very serious" . However, "not being aware of any evidence that would support such a claim, there is no question of any collusion having occurred." Referring to allegations of collusion presented by policyholder groups, the current Equitable Life Chief Executive Mr. THOMSON squarely dismissed any " intriguing picture of conspiracy. In the absence of any verifiable evidence this should remain one man's view of events ." see WE-CONF5. 1c) Claims of Regulators' industry bias A number of witnesses (Mr. LAKE (H1), Mr. BRAITHWAITE (H1, H11), Mr. BELLORD (H2), Mr. JOSEPHS (H2), Mrs. KWANTES (H7), Mr. SCAWEN (H3); Mr. SEYMOUR (H7)) repeatedly claimed a strong industry-bias of the, supposedly independent, UK life insurance regulators. In their view, this factor has prevented, or at least affected, their impartial assessment of Equitable Life's operations and timely action to prevent its downfall. In his oral testimony, Mr. JOSEPHS (H2) asserted that, starting from the 1980s, the UK prudential regulatory system "left effective control in the hands of the industry, in spite of giving the appearance of proper regulations ". This would have lead to a weak regulatory environment that proved unable to provide investors with effective protection. Confirming statements were presented by Mr. LAKE (H1) and Mr. BRAITHWAITE (H1, H11), who considered UK regulators to be "too industry-oriented and not sufficiently consumer-oriented" and claiming that " the FSA perceives its customers as being industry firms." Allegations of being industry-biased were firmly rejected by the FSA representative Mr. STRACHAN (H4) calling "entirely misplaced such concerns, that the FSA would somehow be 'in the pocket' of the firms it regulates: we are a statutory regulator established by Parliament." Allegations that the FSA could be (or have been) too 'industry-biased' in its supervisory and regulatory operations had also been judged " unfair " by expert Mr. McELWEE in H3. 1d) Claims of Regulators' 'light touch' regulatory policy In order better to specify the 'light touch' nature of the UK regulatory regime, policyholder Mr. SEYMOUR (H7) quoted the UK Treasury Official Report, 28 June 1999; Vol. 334, c. 39 . commenting on the bill creating the new FSA: " There will be a light touch where possible ... The Bill avoids over-burdensome regulation that would serve only to stifle innovation and to increase consumer costs. Instead the FSA will be under a duty to demonstrate that the burdens that it seeks to impose are proportionate to the benefits that will result." Another petitioner, Mr. BELLORD (H2), also insisted on the " very cosy relationship between regulators and EL ", highlighting some findings by the Penrose Report that suggest that reports available to the Government Actuary's Department (GAD) dating back to the late 1980s had already hinted at Equitable Life's dangerous business practices but had remained totally unheeded by the GAD see also 'timeline' in Section III.2.6 of this Part. . A 'light touch attitude' exudes from a letter of January 2001, i.e. just weeks after the mass resignation of the EL board and its closure to new business, to the German