which is textiles. The mission of the panel is to discuss innovation policy issues from the textiles perspective and to provide recommendations for more efficient innovation policy. The Commission also aims to improve the conditions for innovation through actions to be carried out under the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme, in the framework of the new Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (CIP) for 2007‑13 New CIP portal at: http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/cip/index_en.htm , and facilitate the exchange of best practices between Member States (innovation trend chart, innobarometer, innovation scoreboard). In relation to supportive actions for innovation, the Commission has adapted its regulatory framework on state aid, including in the form of tax incentives, in favour of research and development and innovation in order to enable the Member States to promote innovation and redirect state support towards innovative activities. Specific measures to support lifelong learning and vocational learning have also been taken, namely through the Leonardo Da Vinci II Programme , which aims to bolster the competitiveness of the European labour market by helping European workers to acquire new skills, knowledge and qualifications. The Commission promotes the opportunities for the textile and clothing sector to take advantage of existing funds under the Leonardo da Vinci II Programme for projects that seek to promote innovative actions on employment and workers’ adaptation to industrial change. During the last five years, the ‘Leonardo’ Programme has carried out 36 innovation projects for the textile sector in Europe (Annex is sent directly to the Honourable Member and Parliament's Secretariat) and it is expected that this trend will continue in the new Lifelong Learning Programme. Under Community funding through Leonardo da Vinci II, Socrates, Erasmus and the European Social Fund, a series of project proposals, recommended by the HLG and initiated by the social partners, is underway under the leadership of the social partners. These include: — developing common European qualification standards for the textile and clothing sector; — creating a network of national training and employment observatories; — setting up an online media pool to promote a more accurate and up-to-date image of the sector among secondary school pupils; and — setting up, in collaboration with public authorities and public services, reclassification and reconversion units for workers who lose their jobs. Furthermore, the support delivered through the EU Structural Funds, in particular the European Social Fund, has been directed towards the modernisation of labour markets and the anticipation of changes in industrial sectors going through restructuring and modernisation. The ESF provides substantial possibilities for funding programmes related to the adaptability of workers and enterprises and other aspects related to industry restructuring and employment at national level, in accordance with the national strategic reference framework and the operational programmes of each Member State, according to the principle of shared management. Interventions under the European Regional Development Fund have targeted in particular the economic diversification of regions by stimulating innovation and sectoral modernisation, in particular through support for SMEs and the promotion of entrepreneurship. Finally, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGAF 2007‑13) is a new instrument which provides support to workers made redundant as a