Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (31 August 2007) The Commission has repeatedly stressed the importance of the victims of human trafficking Directive 2004/81 Council Directive 2004/81/EC of 29 April 2004 on the residence permit issued to third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings or who have been the subject of an action to facilitate illegal immigration, who cooperate with the competent authorities, OJ L 261, 6.8.2004. for the functioning of the whole EU acquis in the area of asylum and immigration. Therefore the monitoring of the complete and timely implementation of this act is a priority for the Commission. The aim of the victims of the human trafficking Directive is to better fight those who traffic human beings while at the same time protect the rights of victims. The directive therefore sets clear rules: where such persons who cooperate with the competent authorities of Member States may acquire residence permits. The deadline for transposition of Directive 2004/81 expired on 5 August 2006. On that date, seven Member States, among them Germany, had not communicated to the Commission their measures transposing the directive, and three Member States communicated only partial measures. The United Kingdom, Ireland and Denmark are not bound by the directive. In accordance with Article 226 of the EC Treaty, the Commission has therefore opened infringement procedures against all those Member States who have not communicated, or have only partially communicated, the measures necessary to transpose the directive, among them Germany. As the first step of the procedure, in October and November 2006 letters of formal notice were sent to all defaulting Member States, including Germany. On 27 June 2007 the Commission decided to deliver reasoned opinions to all those Member States, among them Germany, that were still failing to fulfil their obligations. The Member States concerned were given two months to reply. If they fail to transmit the necessary transposition measures within the provided time limits the Commission will take all the necessary procedural steps, as provided for by Article 226 of the Treaty. Once the transposition measures have been formally notified, the Commission will examine whether these measures correctly implement the substance of the directive. This conformity check will include all the questions raised by the Honourable Member.