process ". 2. Collective losses The total losses incurred by policyholders (and indeed the shortfall against policyholders' reasonable expectations) cannot be quantified precisely. Mr LAKE, Chairman of the Equitable Members' Action Group (EMAG), stated that the across-the-board cut of 16% to the total value of all pension policies, which ELAS applied on 16 July 2001, equalled £4 billion. Lord PENROSE indicates in WE 16 Page 223. that the reduction intimated in July 2001 was valued at £4.9 billion (including a separate adjustment of with profit annuity values of £630 million). Additional market value adjustments have been imposed since then. Furthermore, the incomes of about 45.000 so called with-profits annuitants have been cut continuously " to the point where 35% decreases are now typical and incomes are still declining ", according to Mr LAKE (H1). The FSA stated that it has not carried out a calculation of total losses, suggesting that this could only be done on a policy-by-policy basis (Mr STRACHAN, H4). Furthermore, even if exact figures were known, it would be rather difficult to determine which part of the losses can be attributed to mismanagement by the Society (and hence give rise to possible claims) and to which extent they were a consequence of external factors, such as the weak performance in financial markets at the time. Mr THOMSON (H2), claims that " the only loss that is clearly due to the particular circumstances of Equitable Life is related to the Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GARs) i.e. related to the Hyman judgement in July 2000 ". Other losses would be market-related, namely due to sharp falls in stock-markets during the early years of this decade, and would also have happened to a greater or lesser extent with providers of other with-profits funds. Mr STRACHAN (H4) was also of the opinion that the policy cuts were made principally because of the very sharp falls that had occurred in equity markets. This view is contested by EMAG (see below). Thus, in WE 47 Page 2. Mr THOMSON points out that one " needs to be careful to define what is meant by collective losses incurred by policyholders, [since] the with-profits policies are investment contracts and consequently are subject to investment losses as well as investment profits in the normal course of business ". He indicates that Equitable Life has assessed losses caused by the Society's special circumstances in several ways (WE 47). Firstly, in connection with the litigation against the former auditors and former directors See also point IV.1. , it " took advice on possible losses arising based on the value of the Society in 2001 if certain actions had been taken earlier ". This revealed losses of up to £2.05 billion to the Society (i.e. to members in aggregate as owners but not to policyholders). Secondly, the society assessed the losses suffered by policies without GARs as a result of the impact of GARs in connection with the Compromise Scheme (see below See IV.2. ). The losses addressed by the scheme, which did not however cover all non-GAR policyholders, amounted to £850