Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (19 August 2010) The Commission has always attached great importance to the promotion and the protection of human rights in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and monitors very closely the human rights situation there. This issue also remains an important topic on the political agenda and is regularly discussed with the Congolese authorities. President Kabila expressed his wish to clarify the events surrounding the death of Floribert Chebeya and an investigation is now ongoing. Some suspects (from the national police forces) have been arrested and General Numbi, the Head of Police, has been suspended until further notice. In particular, the recent death of Floribert Chebeya, gave rise to an immediate EU condemnation expressing deep concern and calling for a serious impartial, credible and transparent investigation. It is of the utmost importance that the truth surrounding the events is established. In order to promote the rule of law and reinforce the fight against impunity, the European Union is one of the main donors in the area of justice in DRC, supporting the implementation of justice sector reform. The Commission is also making use of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) to provide financial support to local civil society actors. The organisation which Mr Chebeya chaired, ‘La voix des sans-voix pour les droits de l’Homme’, is one of the current beneficiaries under the EIDHR. Moreover, in accordance with the EU Guidelines on human rights defenders, an EU local strategy was established in March 2010, which includes different mechanisms to further protect human rights defenders in the DRC including a human rights focal point system to allow urgent contacts between human rights defenders and the EU. The Commission will continue to closely follow this issue and will remain attentive to the overall human rights situation in the DRC. The Commission will also continue to support the DRC to uphold its human rights obligations and will liaise with civil society as an essential element to foster progress in this area.