claimed that the Commission is now a high-cost donor with administrative costs reaching 6 to 7% of operational expenditure. This is higher than practically any Member State. It is therefore proposed to put 30% of administrative costs of the DGs under heading 4 (external actions) in reserve pending further clarifications as to the amounts asked and the worrying trend observed. In order to release the reserves, either fully or partially, before Parliament's second reading, the Commission shall: - justify the administrative share compared to other EU donors - explain the sharp rise in such costs over the current FP - set out its reasons for requesting these appropriations in relation to the overall objective, i.e. to ensure high quality external programmes that contribute, inter alia, to the millennium development goals while ensuring that as high a proportion of funds as possible reach the final beneficiaries. - set out any measures taken to halt this rise in administrative expenditure Amendment 3062: budget line 21 01 02 01 : External staff of «Development» Directorates-General budget line 21 01 02 02 : External staff of «Development» delegations budget line 21 01 02 11 : Other management expenditure of «Development» Directorates-General budget line 21 01 02 12 : Other management expenditure of «Development» delegations budget line 21 01 03 01 : Expenditure related to equipment and services of «Development» Directorates-General budget line 21 01 03 02 : Buildings and related expenditure of «Development» delegations Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: According to the cost-benefit study on development cooperation, data published by the OECD and the Commission itself indicate that the administrative costs of development aid programmes have more than doubled over the current financial perspective. Having been a low-cost donor with less than 3% going towards administrative costs in 2000, it is claimed that the Commission is now a high-cost donor with administrative costs reaching 6 to 7% of operational expenditure. This is higher than practically any Member State. It is therefore proposed to put 30% of administrative costs of the DGs under heading 4 (external actions) in reserve pending further clarifications as to the amounts asked and the worrying trend observed. In order to release the reserves, either fully or partially, before Parliament's second reading, the Commission shall: - justify the administrative share compared to other EU donors - explain the sharp rise in such costs over the current FP - set out its reasons for requesting these appropriations in relation to the overall objective, i.e. to ensure high quality external programmes that contribute, inter alia, to the millennium development goals while ensuring that as high a proportion of funds as possible reach the final beneficiaries. - set out any measures taken to halt this rise in administrative expenditure Amendment 3063 : budget line 22 01 02 01 : External staff of «Enlargement» Directorate-General budget line 22 01 02 02 : External staff of «Enlargement» delegations budget line 22 01 02 11 : Other management expenditure of «Enlargement» Directorate-General budget line 22 01 02 12 : Other management expenditure