WRITTEN QUESTION E-5792/08 by Giusto Catania (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (27 October 2008) Subject: The case of Amina Sheik Said There have recently been reports in the Italian media on the case of Amina Sheik Said, a Somali woman with Italian citizenship, who was subjected to racist insults from border police officers at Rome-Ciampino airport. She was returning from London with her four young nephews. On arrival at the airport, the police checked their ID papers and decided that something was wrong because the children did not all have the same surname. Their luggage was inspected and the woman was led to a room where she was asked to undress for a body search. According to the association which has been following the case, the two women police officers informed her that she would have to undergo anal and vaginal checks. Amina refused to agree to this. She asked that at least a doctor be called for the check. The two women responsible for the search insulted her: ‘I'll send you to prison’, ‘you're as black inside as outside’; ‘we'll hand the children over to a social worker’. They suspected her of being a drug runner. They scornfully called her a negress. For more than four hours, Amina remained undressed in front of an unknown number of people coming in and out of the room. She was then handcuffed, placed on a stretcher and covered with a cellophane wrap film. She was driven by ambulance to the Casilino general hospital. The search proved negative. According to the relevant associations, she was given no written report. There was no trace left of the checks made on her. She was informed that criminal proceedings were being opened against her for resisting arrest. Does the Commission not consider that the behaviour of the police, an Italian state body, clearly constitutes a racially motivated human rights violation, a case of lack of respect for human dignity and the rule of law, totally at odds with the EU's founding principles and, in particular, Article 6 of the EU Treaty? Does it agree, moreover, that the police action in this instance constitutes an obstacle to free movement for all citizens within the Union? Will the Commission approach the Italian Government to ensure that no similar situations are allowed to occur in the future?