WRITTEN QUESTION E-3938/09 by Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) to the Council (10 August 2009) Subject: Illegal arrest of persons holding European citizenship abroad On 30 June the Israeli navy intercepted a vessel flying the Greek flag which had sailed from Cyprus, chartered by the NGO Free Gaza. The vessel’s intention was to break the blockade imposed on Palestine by the Israeli State and to take humanitarian aid to Gaza, a territory which according to according to resolutions adopted by the European Council itself in 2008, requires urgent and immediate humanitarian aid. Aboard the vessel were 21 individuals, all unarmed civilians, of various nationalities: they included the Irish Liberal peace prize winner, Mairead Maguire and the former US Congress woman Cynthia McKinney, both of whom have already been deported. Those on board the vessel put up no violent resistance to the orders issued by the Israeli armed forces, which stopped the vessel in international waters and then destroyed the entire humanitarian cargo, which included toys and medicines. Thereafter, the entire crew was held under inhuman conditions in Israeli prisons, where they were fed only dry bread, and were ask to sign documents in Hebrew, a language they did not understand. The State of Israel is violating Article 2, on respect for human rights, of the Euromediterrranean Cooperation Agreement which has been in force since 2000, and UN Security Council Resolution 1860 of 2000 on the Gaza Strip. Given the circumstances, how does the Council view the intervention of the Israeli armed forces? Has it taken any steps in this respect, or does it intend to do so? How does the Council protect the rights of Union’s citizens abroad? What mechanisms does the Council have to guarantee that all the articles which comprise cooperation agreements are complied with? Does the Council not think that full respect for existing agreements is a sine qua non with regard to depending relations with third countries? Does it not think, therefore, that the negotiations concerning an EU‑Israel Association Agreement should be postponed sine die until it has guarantees that Israel will cease to violate human rights?