policies agreed in Council and those pursued in Member States. The Commission must concentrate on its core activities - policy initiative, execution of policies, guardianship of the Treaties, and international representation of the Community; while there must be a simpler mechanism for control by the Council and Parliament of the way the Commission uses these powers. Finally, the European Parliament and all national parliaments should become more active in stimulating a public debate on the future of the EU and its policies; while the European Parliament should enhance its control of execution of EU policies and implementation of the budget. Co-decision should be extended. 7. Timetable : The Commission invites comments on the White Paper by 31 March 2002. DRAFTSMAN'S COMMENTS 8. A good start : The problem that the Commission takes as its starting point is serious: political apathy is dangerous. The proposals contained in the White Paper are plainly the product of sustained reflection; and, if implemented, they would help to overcome popular disaffection with the European institutions. But perhaps the Commission has underestimated the scale of the problem the EU faces. 9. The big challenge : The real problem, surely, is that the European institutions often appear to be remote and mysterious because they are so unfamiliar and because the relationship between them is so complicated. Many citizens find it difficult to understand the precise role of the Commission, which has both executive responsibilities and civil service functions. One arm of the legislative process (the Council) votes in secret and, for ordinary people, seems nothing like the parliaments with which they are familiar. For its part, the powers of the Parliament are not well-understood and it is often criticised for continuing to hold most of its part-sessions in Strasbourg. The law-making process is highly complex and varies from subject to subject. Finally, if we remember that many things which make politics interesting at national level - well-known personalities, extensive coverage of political issues in newspapers and on TV, satire and humour, - are missing at European level, it becomes easier to understand why so many Europeans are uninterested in the EU. Since the EU institutions and the balance of power between them are the outcome of hard-fought political bargains, and since a genuinely European political culture cannot be created by an act of will, overcoming these misunderstandings may be even more difficult than the Commission suggests. 10. Information and communication policy : The European Parliament is the only one of the Union's institutions which is democratically-elected: it will have a central place in 're-connecting' the Union with its citizens. Along with every other committee in the Parliament, the Culture Committee wishes to welcome those of the Commission's ideas which aim at clearer and more transparent policy-making. Above all, however, the White Paper makes clear the need to establish an overall information and communication policy, based on pluralism and respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, to inform Europe's citizens about all aspects of the Union. In the cause of greater transparency and openness, the Council could set a good example