5. Where a Member State withdraws or amends an authorisation in accordance with paragraph 4 , it shall immediately inform the holder of the authorisation, the other Member States, the Authority and the Commission.▐ Article 46 Withdrawal or amendment of an authorisation at the request of the authorisation holder 1. An authorisation may be withdrawn or amended at the request of the holder of the authorisation, who shall state the reasons for his request. 2. Amendments may only be granted where it is established that the requirements of Article 30 continue to be satisfied. Article 47 Grace period Where a Member State withdraws or amends an authorisation or does not renew it, it may grant a grace period for the disposal, storage, placing on the market and use of existing stocks. Where the reasons for withdrawal, amendment or not renewing the authorisation are not related to the protection of human and animal health or the environment , grace periods for using up stocks of the plant protection products concerned shall be granted for a period not longer than one season. If the reasons for withdrawal, amendment or not renewing the authorisation are related to the protection of human and animal health or the environment then there shall be no time-period for using up stocks of the plant protection products concerned and all sales and use of such products shall cease with immediate effect once the decision of withdrawal or non-renewal has been taken . Article 48 Disposal and destruction of unauthorised plant protection products Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 47, stocks of unauthorised plant protection products shall be safely disposed of and destroyed under the responsibility of the former authorisation holder. Article 49 Imports Imported non-food materials or articles shall not contain residues of active substances that have not been approved in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. Subsection 5 Special cases Article 50 Placing on the market and use of low-risk plant protection products 1. Where all the active substances contained in a plant protection product are substances as referred to in Article 23 ("low-risk active substances"), that product shall, by way of derogation from Article 30 , be authorised as a low-risk plant protection product provided it meets the following requirements: a) the low-risk active substances, safeners and synergists contained in it have been approved under Chapter II; b) the low-risk active substances contained in it have no adverse effect on humans, animals or the environment; c) it does not contain a substance of concern; d) it is sufficiently effective; e) it does not cause unnecessary pain and suffering to vertebrates to be controlled; f) it complies with Article 30 (1)(b), (c), (f) and (h) to (j). These products are referred to hereinafter as "low-risk plant protection products". 2. An applicant for authorisation of a low-risk plant protection product shall demonstrate that the requirements set out in paragraph 1 are met and shall accompany the application with a complete and summary dossier for each point of the data requirements of the active substance and the plant protection product. 3.