company (ECG) and other, similar companies stretch back over a number of decades (with the companies concerned relocating over time in order to continue their activities and avoid penalties), and whereas many businesses have been affected, B whereas the activities of ECG have been the subject of legal and administrative action, such as that taken by the High Court and the regional government in Catalonia (Spain), which resulted in the temporary suspension of the company’s activities and the imposition of a fine, C. whereas when a fraud such as this is organised across frontiers and thus involves activity in two or more Member States, there is no mechanism for the national law-enforcement agencies to work together across borders - nor any budget, nor even a telephone directory to discover police contacts across the border or in other distant Member States - and consequently national agencies understandably lose interest in pursuing the fraudsters because they are so well organised across borders which the national agencies themselves cannot cross, 1. Regrets that whilst the internal market brings new possibilities for bona fide commercial operations, it can give unwelcome opportunity to those who prey on SMEs; calls for action at EU level, in cooperation with the Member States, to prevent and limit this; 2 Suggests that the Commission and Council ensure full implementation and enforcement of Council Directive 84/450/EEC of 10 September 1984 concerning misleading and comparative advertising OJ L 250, 19.9.1984, p. 17. (the Misleading Advertising Directive), along with Directive 2005/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market OJ L 149, 11.6.2005, p. 22. (the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive), with particular attention to be paid to the deliberate use of ambiguous language, in order to end the practices of misleading directory companies; 3. Highlights as a best practice §28a of the Austrian Gesetz gegen unlauteren Wettbewerb of 1984 (Statute against Unfair Commercial Practices - UWG), which prohibits the practices of misleading directory companies; urges the Member States to introduce similar provisions in their implementation of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive in order to prevent harm to consumers and small businesses, and to ensure that competition prevails as it should, without detriment to the economic interests of legitimate competitors; 4. Taking into account the Study on the Misleading Practices of Directory Companies commissioned by its Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, which indicates as possible legislative options for dealing with the problem of misleading directory companies amending Directive 2006/114/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 concerning misleading and comparative advertising OJ L 376, 27.12.2006, p. 21. to include a "black" list of practices that are to be considered misleading and extending the scope of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive to cover B2B contracts with specific regard to point 21 of Annex I thereto, requests the Commission to report by December 2009 on the feasibility and possible consequences of such amendment or extension; 5. Urges the Commission to consider the particular position of SMEs