been led to expect (even if they were not guaranteed). This occurred as a result of the rules for creating provisions covering future discretionary bonuses being kept deliberately vague by regulators, who appeared in turn merely to leave them to be dealt with unchecked by the Appointed Actuaries. Regulatory shortcomings by UK Regulators 4. There have been many statements and submissions which support a finding of regulatory failure and prudential supervision shortcomings by the different UK life insurance regulators (DTI/HMT/FSA), as well as by the GAD, in relation to the supervision of ELAS throughout the 1990s and specifically after the Third Life Directive entered in force in 1994. 5. Likewise, there is ample material to indicate that if the UK regulators had correctly and diligently exercised their prudential supervisory and regulatory powers, as required by Articles 10 and 13 of the Third Life Directive, they ought in turn to have discovered and reacted to the weaknesses and risks inherent in ELAS's business model and operations at a time before a state of crisis became apparent. 6. There have been a significant number of statements to the effect that the UK regulators failed to prevent ELAS from steering into its crisis and therefore failed to protect ELAS policyholders in the UK and other Member States from suffering financial losses as a direct consequence. 7. Statements and expert advice received by the committee appear to contradict Lord Penrose's overall assessment that " principally, the Society was author of its own misfortunes . Regulatory system failures were secondary factors 1 see WE 16, chapter 20, para.84. ". Particularly, his own report's 'Key Findings' 2 see WE16, page 726: para.240, points 7-11. seem to be at odds with his above assessment, in that the Findings state that regulatory failures had indeed substantially contributed to creating a weak regulatory environment in which the ELAS crisis could unfold. Failure to recognize the GAR risks 8. There is a large body of material which suggests that the UK regulators failed to recognize - or even negligently underestimated - the potential impact of GAR policies on the financial stability of ELAS, particularly in the event of a substantial downturn in financial markets and given ELAS' reputation of applying thin solvency and reserve margins. It seems that when this risk was finally recognized by UK Regulators, it was to too late to reverse the situation and any subsequent regulatory action could only be a belated attempt at damage limitation. 9. There can be little doubt that the equity bear market in 2001-2002 contributed to an acceleration of the ELAS crisis after the House of Lords' ruling. However, adverse market forces alone cannot be held out as the sole reason for the ELAS crisis, as is witnessed by the fact that not all UK life offices suffered a financial crisis of this magnitude. In the ELAS case, the available material suggests that a number of factors which clearly pre-dated the bear market, and in particular the GAR issue, had already created the basis for the Society's future financial problems. Excessive deference to