say that the Commission was continuing to monitor the situation. As for the financial provisions, he urged that debates on the future Financial Perspective should not affect negotiations on Romania and Bulgaria and vice-versa. Although stopping short of committing to an agreement on the financial implications, he suggested that only nerves and technical matters got in the way, and insisted that Parliament's powers were in no sense undermined. The Commissioner for enlargement, Olli REHN commented on the progress still to be made on the road to accession, saying "the signing of the accession treaty does imply agreement on the terms and conditions of accession, but does not mean that the preparations for membership are completed". In this spirit, he confirmed the close monitoring of the situation in Romania and Bulgaria and offered the following reassurance: "If Romania or Bulgaria are manifestly unprepared for membership of the European Union, I will not hesitate to use the safeguard clauses, including the postponement of accession by one year until 2008" . He insisted Parliament would be kept informed, adding, in the context of the monitoring mechanism, that a comprehensive monitoring report would be released in November. He noted that there was "steady progress" being made by Romania and Bulgaria but called for greater momentum towards reform. " Bulgaria has to make sound and solid efforts, particularly in the areas of the reform of the judiciary, corruption and organised crime, while Romania has to make progress in the areas of public administration, corruption, competition, state aid and the environment" , he said. Overall, he was " cautiously optimistic " and said " Parliament should give Romania the benefit of the doubt ". Baroness Emma NICHOLSON OF WINTERBOURNE (ALDE, UK) reported on the progress made by Romania on children's rights, one of the topics identified in Helsinki as a key area for reform. She informed the session that more than €60 million have been dedicated to the protection and advancement of children's rights since that meeting, and that 15,000 children were now in care as a direct result. She praised as " very modern " the new piece of legislation drafted on behalf of six and a half million children in Romania, adding that, thanks to this law, Romania had made greater progress on children's rights than many Member States. "I congratulate Romania. This is just one topic where important reform has been made. She has earned her place in the European Union". Christopher BEAZLEY (EPP-ED, UK) reported back on the findings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee's visit to Bucharest just last week. He said that the Romanian government had fully embraced reform, having drawn up detailed and costed programmes for improvement. He said that everyone recognised where reform was needed, namely in the areas of corruption, independence of the judiciary and protection of the environment, but called on the EU to fully support the country's efforts to restore civil society. He said he had received important reassurances from the Romanian authorities in relation to Hungarian minorities. Against this background, he concluded "it is very important to