e-mail: foreign-press@europarl.eu.int EU solidarity fund: Portugal asks for € 48.5 million At a public hearing held by Parliament's Budgets Committee on Wednesday, a Portuguese state representative announced that his country was requesting assistance from the EU Solidarity Fund to the tune of €48.5 million as against the €31.7 million initially proposed by the Commission following the disastrous forest fires that swept the country this summer. This request, described by former MEP Carlos COSTA NEVES, elicited a reasonably positive response from Commissioner Michaele SCHREYER, who is nevertheless waiting to receive an up-to-date dossier on the case. The €48.5 million is intended to help Portugal tackle the devastation caused by the fires, which destroyed over 403,000 hectares and caused 18 deaths. Portugal has revised upwards the figure it is requesting from the Fund because the fires continued well after 13 August, the date on which it submitted its first application to the Commission. The European Parliament, in its resolution on the consequences of this summer's heatwave, adopted last week in Strasbourg, suggested that the amount earmarked for Portugal under the Solidarity Fund should be increased so as to come closer to the maximum allowable amount, put at €94 million. The budgetary authority (Parliament and Council) must now rule on whether such sums can be provided from the Solidarity Fund at a trialogue to take place on 23 September in the margins of Parliament's plenary session in Strasbourg. If agreement is reached between the institutions, the Fund will be drawn upon using an amending budget which would have to be adopted by Parliament at its first plenary session in October. Two other countries may yet apply for money from the Fund before the end of the year: France, which submitted its application on 9 September and is pushing for €80 million, and Greece, which still has to complete its dossier and provide precise estimates. 10.09.2003 Committee on Budgets In the chair: Terence WYNN (PES, UK) Press enquiries: Jean-Yves Loog - tel. (32-2) 28 44652, Gonçalo Macedo - tel. (32-2) 28 41361, email: budg-press@europarl.eu.int MEPs condemn discrimination against women outside the workplace The Women's Rights Committee came out at a public hearing on Wednesday in favour of an EU directive to deal with discrimination against women outside the workplace. According to committee chair Anna KARAMANOU (PES, GR) and her fellow MEPs, equality for women must be achieved in all areas. The committee was particularly concerned about discrimination in the insurance and private pensions industries and about media stereotypes, which were the two main issues aired at the hearing. Commissioner Anna DIAMANTOPOULOU expressed willingness to use all possible means to combat gender discrimination outside work but was unable to set a date for bringing forward a directive, as demanded by a number of MEPs. As several experts explained, private insurance companies often base their calculations on the gender of the client: since statistics show that women live longer, they constitute a "higher risk" group and their premiums are thus dearer. But the reverse is also true: in the case of car insurance, women pay lower premiums because