had been agreed to apply the only procedure existing at the time of the introduction of the Lamfalussy process capable of lending itself to this approach, namely the provisions on comitology. However, Parliament, for its part, has always disputed that the comitology procedure is an appropriate instrument, given that it was originally conceived (under Article 202 of the Treaty) as an instrument conferring powers on the Commission to implement rules laid down by the Council. It is a system designed in the early days of the Treaties, at a time when the European Parliament had only simple powers of consultation. It is for that reason that the powers currently granted to the European Parliament in relation to implementing measures adopted by the Commission are purely consultative. The introduction of codecision has completely changed the context, given that the European Parliament has become co‑legislator. However, in contrast, nothing has changed as regards comitology. The Council Decision of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers, which was adopted years after the introduction of codecision, did not take account of the reality of the new institutional balance. This issue is all the more essential insofar as what are - incorrectly - referred to as 'implementing measures' in the area of financial services are in fact delegated legislative acts adopted by the Commission in the form of directives and regulations . On top of this situation of institutional imbalance inherent in the implementation of the Lamfalussy process within the current framework, a serious institutional concession was made by the Commission vis-à-vis the Council at the European Council summit in Stockholm on 24 March 2001. The Commission gave a written undertaking to 'avoid going against predominant views which might emerge within the Council' as to the appropriateness of measures in areas acknowledged to be particularly sensitive (paragraph 5, subparagraph 3 of the resolution). The Commission thus deliberately granted the Council a right of call back , i.e. a right to revoke measures adopted by the Commission, which appeared neither in the Treaties nor in implementing decisions. This political situation was, of course, considered unacceptable by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and by the European Parliament, leading us to call in turn on the Commission, in our resolution of 5 February 2002, to likewise grant us a right of call back. The Commission President, Mr Prodi, responded to this request with a solemn declaration before the plenary affirming that the Commission would take 'the utmost account of Parliament’s position and any resolutions that it might adopt with regard to implementing measures exceeding the implementing powers provided for in the basic instrument'. The Commission additionally accepted a 'sunset clause', limiting the duration of the delegation of implementing powers to the Commission to four years, and a period of three months from the forwarding of implementing measures for their examination, and reaffirmed that full transparency would be ensured throughout the entire procedure for the adoption of implementing measures. Whilst Parliament was thus granted a certain equivalence of treatment in terms of what