Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (5 December 2006) 1. The main objective of Council Directive 97/43/Euratom Council Directive 97/43/Euratom of 30 June 1997 on health protection of individuals against the dangers of ionizing radiation in relation to medical exposure, and repealing Directive 84/466/Euratom, OJ L 180, 9.7.1997. is to achieve an optimum balance of efficiency and patient exposure from medical applications and to reduce the number of inadequate exposures, through requirements such as those laid down in Article 8 for the radiological equipment (provisions on strict surveillance, updated inventories, quality assurance and quality control, acceptance and performance testing and criteria of acceptability for equipment, for example). The requirement in Article 8(1) to avoid unnecessary proliferation of medical equipment is one means to reduce the number of inadequate exposures of patients. 2. Article 8(1) of the Council Directive does not identify what kind of measures should be taken against the unnecessary proliferation of radiological equipment, but requires Member States to ‘take such steps as they may consider necessary’ to this end. It is for the Member States to define which measures are necessary. Demographical or geographical criteria are not excluded. The Commision considers therefore that possible restrictions to the freedom of establishment and to the free provision of services, as well as to the free movement of goods, that ensue from the Greek legislation implementing Council Directive 97/43/Euratom, may be justified on grounds of public health, pursuant to Articles 46(1), 55 or 30 of the EC Treaty. However, according to a well-established case law, such restrictions are only permissible if they comply with the abovementioned criteria of necessity and proportionality. This implies, in particular, that no other less restrictive measure exists which is equally suitable to attain the same objective. The Commission will further examine the relevant Greek legislation and will consider whether to initiate an infringement procedure.