excluded from Community financing expenditure mainly concerning EAGGF years 1996 to 1998, amounting to EUR 350.8 million, of which EUR 174.4 million relate to arable crops, 55.6 to animal premia and 49.8 to export refunds, – the two conformity decisions taken in 2000 together total EUR 579.5 million, G. whereas the Special Accession Programme for Agriculture and Rural Development (Sapard) provides the basis for EU support for implementing the agricultural acquis and adapting the agricultural sector and rural areas in the candidate countries, and whereas it marks a new dimension in the conferral of financial management tasks to agencies in the candidate countries, H. whereas the Integrated Administration and Control System (IACS) was introduced following the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy in 1992 and the deadline for final implementation was 1 January 1997; General appraisal 1. Notes that this resolution is based on the results of the first five conformity decisions taken by the Commission under the reformed procedure, and stresses that future conformity decisions might give rise to new considerations; 2. Takes the view that the relatively limited experience gained to date with the reformed clearance procedure prompts a certain prudence in the evaluation; recognises, nonetheless, that the clearance of accounts procedure is a mechanism that provides for the systematic control of Community expenditure; 3. Notes that the Court of Auditors concludes that the reform of the clearance procedure has resulted in improved accountability at Member State level and should be regarded as a considerable achievement OJ C 69, 2.3.2001, p. 4. ; 4. Notes with disappointment that, whilst for Parliament one of the main objectives of the reform was to avoid delays in the clearance decisions, the Court of Auditors has not found evidence that the reformed procedure has accelerated the timescale for clearing overall expenditure for a given year Special Report 22/2000, point 90. ; From annual to multiannual clearance decisions 5. Notes that decisions taken as a result of the compliance clearance, being either a deduction from or an addition to the Community financing, will each time relate to specific budget areas and will usually cover the expenditure of more than one financial year; 6. Notes that the Court of Auditors, in its opinion 5/1994 OJ C 383, 31.12.1994, p. 31. , confirmed its preference for a single, annual clearance decision, whilst at the same time recognising the problems associated with the old system (long delays in the clearance decisions) and also considered the split into an annual accounting clearance and a multiannual compliance clearance to be a compromise rather than a solution to the problems; 7. Notes that the final value of corrections for a given EAGGF year is not known until several years after the closure of the accounts, which renders yearly comparisons impossible in the short term; regrets this situation, which is inherent in the reformed procedure; 8. Invites the Commission to inform the discharge authority when a specific financial year has been finalised, and to present the financial corrections per Member State and per sector for that year in the following annual Financial