Council and the Commission. Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1a) Unfortunately, neither the Commission (Eurostat)'s warning, issued as long ago as 2004 , nor the Commission’s initiatives in this area , set out in its communication of 22 December 2004 entitled ‘Towards a European governance strategy for fiscal statistics’ 1 , led to reforms by the Council of the governance framework for financial statistics, which were overdue even then . Had timely action been taken, the errors in reporting the relevant data on public deficit could have been identified much sooner and the resulting crisis could at least have been contained. It is therefore of critical importance that the Commission ( Eurostat ) receive an appropriate competence framework, adequate staffing and as much independence as possible. __________ 1 COM(2004)0832 . Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 1 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1b) The Commission should as sess and draw conclusions about how the collection and evaluation of financial statistics from Member States was conducted in the past . Those conclusions should be reported to the European Parliament. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) The revised governance framework for fiscal statistics has overall functioned well and, in general, has produced a satisfactory outcome in terms of reporting of relevant fiscal data on government deficit and debt . In particular, the Member States have predominantly demonstrated a solid record of co-operation in good faith and an operational ability to report fiscal data of high quality. (3) While the revised governance framework for fiscal statistics has overall functioned well and, in general, has produced a satisfactory outcome in terms of reporting of relevant fiscal data on government deficit and debt , and most Member States have demonstrated a solid record of co-operation in good faith and an operational ability to report fiscal data of high quality , previous opportunities should have been taken to enhance the quality and scope of data provided to the Commission (Eurostat) . Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (4) However, recent developments have also clearly demonstrated that the current governance framework for fiscal statistics still does not mitigate, to the extent necessary, the risk of incorrect or inaccurate data being deliberately notified to the Commission. (4) However, recent developments in the Union have also clearly demonstrated that the current governance framework for fiscal statistics still does not mitigate, to the extent necessary, the risk of incorrect or inaccurate data being deliberately notified to the Commission. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (4a) The reliability of statistics made available by the Commission (Eurostat) at Union level directly depends on the reliability of statistical data collected by Member States at national level. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 4 b