WRITTEN QUESTION P-6493/07 by Konrad Szymański (UEN) to the Commission (7 January 2008) Subject: Low-emission zone in Berlin: discrimination against Poles The low-emission zones (Umweltzonen) appearing in German towns and cities place a serious restriction on travel in cars registered in other European Union Member States. Under German law, cars with diesel engines made before 1997 and petrol-run cars made before 1992 are banned from entering low-emission zones. In Berlin, it has been shown that access to the low-emission zone is practically impossible for people travelling in cars registered in other EU Member States, regardless of the production year. The special sticker allowing access to the low-emission zone is unobtainable in practice for the owners of these cars (the sticker states whether the car complies with the rules on dust emissions). It is impossible, in practice, to obtain a sticker by providing a Polish vehicle registration document, for example. German officials refuse to recognise them on linguistic grounds. The authorities' suggestion that a certified translation of the registration document should be provided is impossible in practice for people visiting the city for a short time. It also results in additional costs that owners of cars registered in Germany do not have to bear. The other suggested option for foreigners is to have their car inspected at an authorised garage. This solution also entails practical difficulties. As with the translation of the vehicle registration document, inspections also involve additional costs. Driving without a sticker will result in one penalty point or a fine of EUR 40. Low-emission zones are soon to appear in Cologne and Hanover and 20 other German towns or cities. The planning and enforcement of these zones is, from a legal point of view, deeply flawed. They hinder the application of the principles of the internal market laid down in Article 14(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, in particular the freedom of movement of persons. These measures result in the unequal and discriminatory treatment of drivers of cars registered outside Germany.