specific geographical region, but rather to development assistance spent on thematic programmes that focus on cross-cutting issues such as human rights, preservation of natural resources and good governance. Aid for Trade - the EUR 1 billion pledge 8. In the context of the 2005 G8 Summit, European Commission President Barroso pledged that the Commission would provide EUR 1 billion in aid for trade payments by 2010 from EC development assistance. It can be argued in this context that in order for this commitment to be accounted for accurately, a thematic budget line for trade-related assistance should be created. In the absence of such a thematic budget line, the overall figure for annual EC trade-related assistance will be produced through an aggregation derived from spending on trade assistance in national country programmes. 9. The aid for trade pledge raises two interesting issues. First, the debate about the need for a thematic budget line to account accurately for aid for trade spending raises a trade-off between, on the one hand, transparency of political commitments and, on the other, a proliferation of thematic budget lines for the various horizontal objectives of development policy. Second, there is the issue of the coherence between Community spending relative to spending by other bilateral and multilateral donors. The World Bank's emphasis on Poverty Reduction Strategy Programmes (PRSPs) agreed at a national level with developing partner countries are particularly relevant in this regard. Next steps How will EC development spending be affected by the new MFF? 10. The reorganisation of the headings for the new financial perspective make it somewhat difficult to make direct comparisons between future spending on development assistance in the 2007 - 2013 MFF relative the 2000 - 2006 Financial Perspective (FP). As an overall guide, EUR 50 billion is foreseen for Heading 4 "The EU as a global partner" over the period 2007 - 2013. Development cooperation is projected to account for some EUR 15 billion (around 30 percent). One must note, however, that the EDF and the Emergency Aid Reserve are outside of the 2007 - 2013 MFF. Further the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI), to which over EUR 10 billion is allocated over the MFF, provides assistance to poorer countries on, or close to, the EU's external borders. The future of EC economic and cooperation instruments 11. Negotiations are ongoing between Parliament, Council and Commission regarding the new external instruments for pre-accession (IPA), neighbourhood and partnership (ENPI) and development and economic co-operation (DCEC). One of the key issues is the legal base for the DCEC. The Parliament intends to amend this programme so that it would cover all developing countries (by OECD/ DAC definition "developing countries" would include China, India, Brazil) that are not covered by the ENPI (Neighbourhood) or IPA (Pre-accession) instruments. A key question is whether the legal base for will cover only development cooperation (Art 179 of the Treaty) or also economic, financial and technical cooperation (Art 181 of the Treaty). A dual legal base would give the Commission a freer hand to spend assistance money on economic, financial and