on outside those territories, in accordance with the Council directives governing those activities and for the purpose of seeing that they are implemented." Article10(3) further specifies that " These powers and means must, in particular, enable the competent authorities to: (a) make detailed enquiries regarding the assurance undertaking's situation and the whole of its business, inter alia, by gathering information or requiring the submission of documents concerning its assurance business, carrying out on-the-spot investigations at the assurance undertaking's premises; (b) take any measures, with regard to the assurance undertaking, its directors or managers or the persons who control it, that are appropriate and necessary to ensure that the undertaking's business continues to comply with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions with which the undertaking must comply in each Member State and in particular with the scheme of operations in so far as it remains mandatory, and to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the assured persons; (c) ensure that those measures are carried out, if need be by enforcement, where appropriate through judicial channels." 6. Supervision of foreign-based companies The question of prudential supervision of foreign-based companies is governed by Article 8 of 3LD, stating clearly that " the financial supervision of an assurance undertaking, including that of the business it carries on either through branches or under the freedom to provide services, shall be the sole responsibility of the home Member State ." It adds that "if the competent authorities of the Member State of the commitment have reason to consider that the activities of an assurance undertaking might affect its financial soundness, they shall inform the competent authorities of the undertaking's home Member State ." 7. Supervision of accounting and financial situation Article 18 of 3LD states that " the Home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to establish sufficient technical provisions, including mathematical provisions, in respect of its entire business" to be determined according to well defined principles cfr. art. 18-16 3LD, with art. 25-26 referring to solvency margins. . In particular, Article 20 of 3LD stipulates that "the assets covering the technical provisions shall the account of the type of business carried on by an undertaking in such a way as to secure the safety, yield and marketability of its investments." It was suggested, however, that the calculation of bonuses in insurance contracts and its 'smoothing effect' on policies - a key factor when assessing EL's operations - was " not deriving from EU law, but had to be considered rather a matter of private contract law" cfr. Prof. Tridimas (WS1), who also stated that " the Hyman case ruling as such did not touch EU law". . 8. Supervision of companies in difficulty Article 24, paragraphs 2 to 4 of 1LD state that "f or the purposes of restoring the financial situation of an undertaking... the supervisory authority of the head-office Member State shall require a plan for the restoration of a sound financial position be submitted for its approval. If the solvency margin falls below the guarantee fund ... the supervising