(EC) No 2130/2001 on operations to aid uprooted people in Asian and Latin American developing countries ( 2004/0040(COD) ). Moreover, on 15 November 2004 the President had informed Parliament that, pursuant to Rule 66(2), he had decided to consult the committee responsible, in this case the ENVI Committee, in order to verify that the adaptations the Council had made to Parliament's position adopted at first reading on 31 March 2004 with a view to the adoption of the European Parliament and Council regulation laying down requirements for feed hygiene ( 2003/0071(COD) ) did not affect the substance. Having received the ENVI Committee's opinion, he had indicated to the Council that the text which the Council had forwarded could be accepted subject to one change. The Council had then forwarded a new text incorporating the requested change. The acts in question were thus adopted, and would be signed by the President of Parliament, with the President of the Council, in accordance with Rule 68 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. 10 Order of business The next item was the order of business. The final draft agenda for the January I and II sittings (PE 352.950/PDOJ) had been distributed and a number of changes had been proposed (Rule 132): Sittings of 10.01.2005 to 13.01.2005 Monday - no changes Tuesday - Request from the UEN Group to postpone the election of the European Ombudsman until a later part-session The following spoke: Salvatore Tatarella , on behalf of the UEN Group , who moved the request, and David Hammerstein Mintz , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group . Parliament rejected the request. Wednesday - no changes Thursday - no changes Sittings of 26.01.2005 and 27.01.2005 - no changes The order of business was thus established. 11 One-minute speeches on matters of political importance Pursuant to Rule 144, the following Members who wished to draw the attention of Parliament to matters of political importance spoke for one minute: Katerina Batzeli , Mirosław Mariusz Piotrowski , Evangelia Tzampazi , Nirj Deva , Antonio Tajani , Claude Moraes , Eugenijus Gentvilas , James Nicholson , Bairbre de Brún , Bogdan Golik , Avril Doyle , Ryszard Czarnecki , Ján Hudacký , Leopold Józef Rutowicz , James Hugh Allister , Terence Wynn and Toine Manders . 12 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (debate) Commission statement: United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Stavros Dimas (Member of the Commission) made the statement. The following spoke: Karl-Heinz Florenz , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group . IN THE CHAIR: Gérard ONESTA Vice-President The following spoke: Dorette Corbey , on behalf of the PSE Group, Chris Davies , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Monica Frassoni , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Roberto Musacchio , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Johannes Blokland , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Liam Aylward , on behalf of the UEN Group, Bruno Gollnisch , Non-attached Member, Avril Doyle , Andres Tarand , Carl Schlyter , Mary Lou McDonald , Urszula Krupa , Hans-Peter Martin , Ria Oomen-Ruijten , Evelin Lichtenberger , Diamanto Manolakou