Answer given by Ms Hübner on behalf of the Commission (24 February 2009) According to information obtained from the Portuguese authorities, the Community Structural Fund assistance granted to the companies mentioned by the Honourable Member was for productive-investment support and vocational-training projects (including job-creation) performed in compliance with the applicable national and Community legislation. As far as the relocation of past beneficiaries of Community support is concerned, the Commission would point to the provisions of Article 30(4) of Council Regulation 1260/1999 OJ L 161, 26.6.1999. , pursuant to which Member States shall ensure that an operation retains the contribution from the Funds only if that operation does not, within five years of the date of the decision of the competent national authorities or the managing authority on the contribution of the Funds, undergo a substantial modification affecting its nature or its implementation conditions or giving to a firm or a public body an undue advantage and resulting either from a change in the nature of ownership in an item of infrastructure or a cessation or change of location in a productive activity. Member States must inform the Commission of any such modification and if one does indeed occur, Article 39 of the above Regulation OJ L 161, 26.6.1999. (relating to the necessary financial corrections) should apply. Concerning the Structural Funds aids for the 2007‑13 period, the Commission paid particular attention to the issue of relocation. Accordingly, through successive communications on the issue and as part of the Growth and Jobs Agenda, Member States have been urged to anticipate and facilitate structural changes when needed. In this respect, Article 57 of General Regulation No 1083/2006 OJ L 210, 31.7.2006. states also that Member States ‘shall ensure that an operation retains the contribution from the Funds only if that operation does not, within five years from the completion of the operation or three years from the completion of the operation in Member States which have exercised the option of reducing that time limit for the maintenance of an investment or jobs created by Small and medium enterprises (SMEs), undergo a substantial modification’. Furthermore, when assessing major productive investment projects, Recital No 42 of the same Regulation states that ‘the Commission should have all necessary information to consider whether the financial contribution from the Funds does not result in a substantial loss of jobs in existing locations within the European Union, in order to ensure that Community funding does not support relocation within the European Union’. The Portuguese programmes, for 2007‑13, which could be the source of financing of investments in enterprises, include some provisions to ensure that direct aid given to large firms does not lead to firms going to other regions in the EU. For instance, the following paragraph has been included, following a request from the Commission: ‘In the case of assistance granted from the Structural Funds to a large enterprise, the Managing Authority undertakes to request an assurance from the enterprise concerned that the assistance will not be used in support of investment that concerns the relocation of its production or