10 May 2001 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Pat Cox on behalf of the ELDR Group on transatlantic dialogue European Parliament resolution on transatlantic dialogue The European Parliament, – having regard to the launch of the New Transatlantic Agenda (NTA) in 1995 A. whereas the new US Administration, the Commission and the European Parliament all have a concurrent mandate until 2004 which should be used to strengthen the pursuit of our common political and economic interests, B. whereas relations between the EU and the US are the most important strategic relationship in the world, accounting between them for over 40% of world trade in goods and services, C. whereas the level of interpenetration of the world's two largest trading blocs leads inevitably to some trade disputes, though in reality these amount to no more than 1-2% of the trade and investment flow across the Atlantic, D. whereas the application of accepted international trade settlement procedures to EU-US trade helps us both resolve our differences and provides a very important example for third countries, particularly those in the developing world, E. whereas the EU-US relationship is multi-faceted and non-trade aspects such as foreign policy, global security and the promotion and respect of human rights and the rule of law in the world have become an increasingly important element and are poised to become even more important, F. whereas both the US and the EU are in an ideal position to take the lead in tackling global issues such as environmental pollution, climate change, etc., G. whereas the UN climate control protocol is a transparent mechanism for showing newly industrialising countries that environmental protection can, and indeed must, go hand in hand with economic development; 1. Welcomes the recent discussion on improving the transatlantic relationship and in particular the move towards a more focused approach to strategic themes such as emerging security challenges, globalisation and the multilateral trading system, organised crime, consumer protection/food safety and the digital economy, among others; 2. Believes firmly that the transatlantic dialogue needs to identify clear deadline-based priorities so that the ultimate goal is not lost as a result of some media-hyped trade dispute, the national priority of an incoming EU presidency or a sudden shift in US policy; 3. Applauds the Commission proposal to review the frequency and general organisation of EU-US summits so that they can be more focused and efficient; notes also that there is room for improvement as regards the coherence of EU positions at such summits; 4. Acknowledges the importance of the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue between Congress and the European Parliament but believes that further initiatives should be taken to enhance the links between these institutions; 5. Is firmly of the opinion that the future of transatlantic relations depends crucially on the EU and the US maintaining a commonality of values in foreign policy and on human rights issues and, of course, trade; 6. Takes the view that a unilateral approach to world trade is unsustainable in the