credit ratings, hereinafter "ancillary services". A credit rating agency shall determine what it considers as ancillary services. It shall ensure that the provision of ancillary services does not present conflicts of interest with its credit rating activity. A credit rating agency may provide services other than issuance of credit ratings, hereinafter "ancillary services". Such a ncillary services shall not be deemed to be ratings but , rather, inter alia, market forecasts and estimates of economic trends, for which purpose the finding of previous ratings shall be used only subject to compliance with confidentiality and data protection requirements. The credit rating agency shall ensure that the provision of ancillary services does not present conflicts of interest with its credit rating activity and shall disclose , in its final ratings reports , any ancillary services provided for the company . Justification In order to avoid uncertainty and ensure the confidence of stakeholders, it is necessary to define the term ancillary services. This also makes matters clearer for the credit rating agencies. Amendment 15 8 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 7. A credit rating agency shall keep records and audit trails of all its activities, including records of agreements between the credit rating agency and the rated entity or related third party and all significant elements of the dialogue with the rated entity and its related third parties, as well as records in relation to the obligations set out in Articles 5, 6 and 7. 7. A credit rating agency shall arrange for adequate records of its credit rating activities to be kept. Those records shall include: (a) for each credit rating decision, the identity of the credit analysts participating in the determin ation of the credit rating, the identity of the persons who have approved the credit rating, details of whether the credit rating was solicited or unsolicited and the date on which the credit rating action was taken ; (b) the account records relating to fees received from any issuer, obligor, underwriter or other user of ratings ; (c) the account records for each subscriber to the credit ratings or related services; (d) the records documenting the established procedures and methodologies used by the credit rating agency to determine ratings; (e) the internal records and files, including non-public information and work papers, used to form the basis of any credit rating decision taken; (f) credit analysis reports, credit assessment reports and private credit rating reports and internal records, including non-public information and work papers, used to form the basis of the opinions expressed in such reports; (g) records of the procedures maintained by the credit rating agency to comply with the provisions of this Regulation; and (h) copies of internal and external communications, including electronic communications, received and sent by the credit rating agency and its employees, that relate to initiating, determining, maintaining, changing or withdrawing a credit rating. Justification The record keeping requirements under the current text are too vague and broad (for example, the reference to all "activity"