Answer given by High Representative/Vice President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (10 June 2010) Information gathered by the delegation staff in Panama indicate indeed that clashes erupted on Avenida Balboa between demonstrators participating in a protest called by the National Union of Workers of Construction and Similar Industries (Suntracs) and the police, and that over 224 demonstrators were detained for a period up to four days before being released. Information available to the Commission does not however allow for a clear understanding of the origin of the clashes and violence. The Commission is not in a position to comment on Panama trade Vice Minister F. Alvarez de Soto’s declarations in the European Parliament. But the Commission agrees with the Honourable Member that the EU Central America negotiations for an Association Agreement ‘should be based on honest negotiations’ and has no reason to believe that the Central American governments have a different view. Consultation and debriefing of civil society organisations and the business community is indeed a normal practice in the negotiations. Before and after each round of negotiations, the Commission briefed civil society organisations. The Association Agreement contains indeed provisions highlighting the essential dimension of human rights in the agreement. Non respect of human rights by one party to the agreement could be a cause for suspension of the agreement. With regards to the access negotiated for EU dairy products on the Central American market, and that of Panama more specifically, the EU's negotiation position was a balanced one taking into account the sensitivity of the local sector. Any sudden changes to the competitive situation and basis for employment of the workers in Panama in the dairy sector caused by imports from the EU should be very limited. Regarding the intellectual property provisions, the agreement includes a provision on criminal sanctions which does not go beyond the TRIPS Trade-Related aspects of Intellectual Property rights. Agreement and thereby covers only copyright and trade marks.