no margin” in the valuation rates used in 1991. In order to pay the bonuses declared in 1989 and 1991 the company needed to earn 11¼% per annum. In fact the company earned +3% over the two years instead of the required 23%." (Ch.16-83) "GAD was not expected to “give a great deal of emphasis to bonus declaration issues, except in cases where PRE was a source of dispute”. The service level agreement did not provide for GAD proactively to pursue bonus policy issues with companies." (Ch.16-120) "The scrutiny report on the 1993 returns ... ran to some 17 pages. This was the first new style scrutiny and contained not only much more information about the company but also sections which highlighted 'Key Features' and 'Action Points'. The new style reports, later formalised in the 1995 agreement between DTI and GAD, were a vast improvement in the quantity and quality of information supplied to DTI." (Ch.16-142) "So far as regulators were concerned, it appears that the liability of members of the Society for the loan debt was of low priority. The risk may not have been understood by regulators. On 9 December 1997, the line supervisor wrote to her German counterparts in response to a query about the Society's position: “Equitable is a mutual insurance company. This means that it is owned by its policyholders and there are no shareholders. Being a member does not involve any obligations other than the obligation to pay the premiums.” I cannot endorse this view. Equitable was and is an unlimited liability company". (Ch.16-215) b) Complacency or " easy hand " policy by Regulators " Regulation, and GAD's advice, were focused exclusively on the solvency margin over contractual liabilities and took no account of accrued terminal or final bonus, notwithstanding that, at the date of the 1989 report, exposure to falling markets was real and was known to GAD and the regulators ." (Ch.16-16) " The Society ... was too venerable to be of real concern, and lack of information provided grounds for inaction ... Regulators had been given an insight into the Society's practice that might reasonably have alerted them to a need for monitoring of current and future practice. No special steps were taken to put in place a suitable system." (Ch.16-21) On 19 May 1992, there was a meeting between Equitable Life and the regulators, " the meeting was part of a programme of three-yearly visits by DTI and GAD to companies and was the first visit to the Society under the programme, and the first meeting between GAD and the Society since November 1990 ... The senior DTI line supervisor for the Society from 1986 to 1991 has told the inquiry that he had never met anyone from the Society face to face. This state of affairs was explained on this basis: “As ELAS were perceived to be well run and sound there would have been no reasons to seek a meeting.” (Ch.16-58) "Pickford (GAD) said that it had not gone as expected and that he had come away quite angry and