Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (10 September 2010) A Commission study published in October 2009 http://ec.europa.eu/consumers/redress_cons/adr_study.pdf , underlined that Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) and Online Alternative Dispute Resolution (ODR) can offer low-cost, simple and quick redress for consumers. They can be a vital tool for maintaining business reputation. However, the study shows that ADR/ODR has not reached its full potential. It identifies three main reasons: Consumer and business awareness of ADR remains low. There are many gaps in the ADR coverage both at geographical and sectoral level, both in new and old Member States. Some traders are not always willing to engage in the ADR process. As announced in the first flagship initiative under the EU 2020 strategy ‘A Digital Agenda for Europe’ COM(2010)245 final. the Commission will launch an EU‑wide strategy to improve ADR systems. It will explore initiatives on consumer ADR in the EU and will consider, among others, a proposal for an EU‑wide ODR system for e-commerce transactions. This initiative on ODR is still at an early stage. The Commission is closely following international developments in the field of ODR, particularly the work of UNCITRAL. The Commission is also being kept updated on projects relating to online alternative consumer dispute resolution systems in Europe. The ‘Digital Agenda for Europe’ also announces an evaluation of the impact of the E-commerce Directive on online markets. On 10 August 2010 the Commission services launched a broad public consultation on the future of electronic commerce in the internal market, addressing a variety of issues including the resolution of online disputes http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/e-commerce/directive_en.htm . A communication on E-commerce is scheduled for the first half of 2011. Under the civil justice programme, the Commission has awarded grants for initiatives in the area of ODR (online mediation platform, e-mediation projects). Information on this programme is available at http://ec.europa.eu/justice/funding/civil/funding_civil_en.htm The Commission is not aware of ODR projects relating to consumer protection that offer access to dispute resolution in all 23 official EU languages. The Commission is examining the best practices derived from the resolution of eu.domain name disputes. It is too early to conclude whether this system could be extended to the alternative dispute resolution of consumer disputes in Europe.