proposed citizens' initiatives which are manifestly against the values of the Union . 4. At any time before the submission of statements of support in accordance with Article 9, the organisers may withdraw a registered initiative. If an initiative is withdrawn, an indication to that effect shall be entered in the register . Justification See the other justifications for amendments to Article 4. The citizens' committee should remain free to withdraw an initiative when it considers that it is useless to continue the collection of signatures or it simply does not intend to continue its activity for any reasons. However, this opportunity should not be granted after the submission of the statements of support, because Member States spend taxpayers' money on verifying signatures. Amendment 33 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Only statements of support forms which comply with the model set out in annex III may be used for this purpose. The organiser shall complete the forms as indicated in annex III prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories. The information given in the forms shall correspond to the information contained in the register. Only registered language versions of statements of support forms which comply with the model set out in annex III may be used for this purpose. The organisers shall complete the forms as indicated in Annex III prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories. The information given in the forms shall correspond to the information contained in the register. Justification Pursuant to Annex III signatories should provide the following information: name, address of permanent residence, date and place of birth, nationality, date of signature. Only registered language versions of the form should be used for collecting signatures, because otherwise, in case of an incorrect translation, it could not be assured that the signatures are collected for the same initiative. Amendment 34 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 4 – subparagraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment At the end of that period, the register shall indicate that the period has expired and, where appropriate, that the Commission has ascertained that the necessary statements of support have not been submitted. Amendment 35 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories, the organiser shall ensure that the online collection system used for that purpose complies with the provisions of paragraph 4. The organiser may, at any time, ask the relevant competent authority of the Member State in which the data collected is or will be stored, to certify that the online collection system complies with those provisions. The organiser shall, in any case, request that certification prior to submitting statements of support for verification in accordance with Article 9 . 2. Prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories, the organisers shall ensure that the online collection system used for that purpose complies