Answer given by Mr Solbes Mira on behalf of the Commission (25 July 2003) The denominations of the euro coins were laid down by Member States in Council Regulation (EC) No 975/98 of 3 May 1998 on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation OJ L 139, 11.5.1998 . and necessarily represent a compromise between the mix of denominations used previously. The article that the Honourable Member refers to argues on the basis of the least-effort-principle meaning that a set of denominations is the more efficient the less banknotes and coins have to be used for a cash payment. The study takes both the original payment and the change rendered into account. The authors of the article themselves rightly raise the question whether the advantage of abolishing the 1 and 2-cent coins outweighs the risk of price increases through the rounding of prices. Alternatively, if the amount to be paid were rounded to the nearest 5 cents, as is the case in Finland, the efficiency gain of the payment operation has to be compared with the need to carry out an additional rounding operation before the payment is settled. While articles such as the one mentioned above provide useful insights, the results are inevitably conditioned by the definitions and underlying assumptions being used and notably the way in which efficiency is being measured. In addition, account should be taken of behavioural elements. For example shopkeepers could decide on their own initiative to adjust their prices to the nearest 5 cent in order to avoid payments including euro cents, if both their customers and themselves believe to gain from this. As coin issuance is a demand-driven process, the evolution of the 1 and 2-cent coins in circulation gives an indication of the population's need for these coins. The year on year growth rate of the 1 and 2-cent coins amounted to 42 % and 32 % respectively in May 2003, while the average growth rate across all coin denominations comes to 23,5 %. The relative significance of the 1 and 2- cent coins is, therefore, apparently increasing.