Commission to pay greater attention to the specific character of regions such as the Mediterranean, whose fishery is inherently of a multi-species nature, and to take specific measures for the aspects related to structural, market and international policy, as well as carrying out monitoring and identifying performance indicators on the basis of cooperation with specific scientific and technical bodies within the sector; 25. Hopes that the multinational forums which are to be set up on an ad hoc basis will be conceived so as to take due account of geographically specific factors; 26. Calls on the Commission to pay greater attention to eco-labelling, since this practice tends to increase consumer confidence and willingness to buy, and can act as an indirect stimulus to production in the sector, since it brings increased added value in its wake; 27. Calls on the Commission not to transfer monitoring responsibilities to the producers themselves, since such responsibilities properly belong to the decision-making and administrative structures of the institutions, which should take steps to improve or adapt their own monitoring and surveillance systems; 28. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the Parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The need to integrate environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy is a strategic priority, at least in terms of the importance of relaunching the European fisheries sector with a series of measures aimed at bolstering its sustainability and competitiveness in the age of globalisation. The series of food scandals in other sectors, as well as the repeated dioxin alarms in the fisheries sector, should make it clear that swift and effective action is called for. The Commission's initiative in opening the debate with this communication is to be welcomed; however, a large-scale consultation effort will be needed if there is to be agreement on the nature of this major process, whose positive effects should benefit all parties, and especially the sectors directly involved, with particular reference to the environment and the fisheries operators. If the key concern is, then, to stress environmental protection as an absolute priority, the strategy for integration of the environment factor into the CFP cannot be confined to proposing penalisations and restrictions: rather, integration must be presented as a major additional resource and opportunity for the development of the sector. The point of departure must therefore be that the fisheries sector is less author than victim of the ecological imbalances existing in the marine ecosystem. These imbalances arise from a development model which is external to the fisheries sector and is based on the uncontrolled exploitation of the environment and the coastal areas. However, the Commission's communication tends, rather, to stress the need for the fisheries sector to adapt itself to environmental criteria. It does not pay sufficient attention to the need for environmental initiatives aimed at, for instance, facilitating a suitable programme for stock restoration which would at one and the same time benefit the ecosystem and raise income and employment levels in the sector. In fact, the communication, where it speaks of the interaction