– having regard to its position of 7 July 2005 on the initiative by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg with a view to adopting a Council decision adjusting the basic salaries and allowances applicable to Europol staff OJ C 157 E, 6.7.2006, p. 450. , – having regard to Rules 93 and 51 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs ( A6-0279/2006 ), A. whereas Parliament has not been consulted on, or informed of, any of the operational and organisational measures concerning Europol, or Europol’s current activities and future programmes in response to the needs of the EU and the Member States; whereas this lack of information makes it impossible for Parliament to assess the relevance and adequacy of the proposed decision, whereas the conversion of Europol into an EU agency is urgently necessary in order to improve transparency and supervision and by blocking progress in this regard, the Council is failing to shoulder its responsibilities; 1. Rejects the initiative by the Republic of Austria; 2. Calls on the Republic of Austria to withdraw its initiative; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission, and the government of the Republic of Austria. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The European Parliament has been consulted on the initiative presented by the Republic of Austria with a view to adopting a Council Act amending Europol's Staff Regulations. The Austrian proposal aims at modifying the rules concerning the terms of contract for all employees. Moreover the proposal, to be adopted by the Council acting unanimously, intends to update the staff regulation and in particular the employment relationship of the Financial controller's office and of the Management Board Secretariat. The European Parliament is aware of the importance of Europol as a very important piece of the architectural security in the EU. Progress has been made as far as cooperation and exchange of information on criminal analysis and organised crime are concerned. Your rapporteur believes that in order to further cooperation on security issues in the EU, common standard have to be used within the member states and this can only be achieved if Europol becomes a fully fledged EU Agency. The development of Europol is on the agenda of the European Commission Council and Commission Action Plan implementing the Hague programme on strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union, Brussels 10 June 2005, 9778/2/05 REV 2 JAI 207, p. 18. which might put forward a proposal for the transformation of this intergovernmental organisation in an EU body in the second half of 2006. The reorganisation of Europol seems to be also one of the top priorities in the EU justice and interior ministers meetings. Options for reform are being prepared by the working group in the Council and they will be presented in the EU justice and interior ministers meeting on the 1 June 2006 Future of Europol, Option paper, reflecting the outcome of the discussion on the Future of Europol held during the Austrian Presidency, May 2006. at