on the Commission to refer the matter to Parliament again if it intends to amend the proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Amendment 1 Proposal for a directive Recital 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5) The types of road traffic offences to be covered by this system should reflect their seriousness in terms of endangering road safety and should cover offences which are qualified as traffic offences in the laws of all Member States. It is accordingly appropriate to make provision in relation to speeding, drink-driving, non-use of a seat-belt, and failing to stop at a red traffic light. The Commission will continue to monitor developments across the EU in respect of other road traffic offences with serious implications for road safety and if appropriate will consider proposing a revision of the Directive in order to cover them within its scope, such as driving under the influence of drugs, use of mobile phones while driving and uninsured driving. (5) The types of road traffic offences to be covered by this system should reflect their seriousness in terms of endangering road safety and should cover offences which are qualified as traffic offences in the laws of all Member States. It is accordingly appropriate to make provision in relation to speeding, drink-driving, non-use of a seat-belt, and failing to stop at a red traffic light. The Commission will continue to monitor developments across the EU in respect of other road traffic offences with serious implications for road safety . Following the submission of a report on the implementation of this Directive two years after it s ent ry into force, the Commission will, if appropriate , propose a revision of the Directive regarding the possibility of extending its scope to include any other categories of road traffic infringements . Justification It must be possible to revise the Directive in the medium term with a view to including new types of offence, such as driving under the influence of drugs and driving without a licence. In order to do so, the Commission must submit a report on the implementation of the Directive. Amendment 2 Proposal for a directive Recital 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5a) To guarantee a sufficient degree of road safety and to ensure that the penalties applicable are proportionate , the Commission should hold discussions with the Member States on the introduction of harmonised fixed penalties for road traffic infringements and should also encourage the exchange of best practices between Member S t ates . Justification Cross-border penalising of traffic offences must be based on a single schedule of fixed penalties, since that is the only way to prevent disproportionately high penalties from being set. Amendment 3 Proposal for a directive Recital 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6) In order to ensure its effectiveness, the system of enforcement should cover the phases between the detection of an offence and the sending of an offence notification, based on a standard