Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (23 March 2005) The Commission is aware of the press campaign regarding workers formerly employed at the decommissioning project of the Mol nuclear research reactor. Chapter IV of Council Directive 96/29/Euratom of 13 May 1996 laying down the basic safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public against the dangers arising from ionising radiation OJ L 159, 29.6.1996 provides that Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure the effective radiological protection of exposed workers. Furthermore, Council Directive 90/641/Euratom of 4 December 1990 on the operational protection of outside workers exposed to the risk of ionizing radiation during their activities in controlled areas OJ L 349, 13.12.1990 provides a binding set of rules that Member States shall arrange for radiological protection of temporarily employed workers equivalent to that for permanently employed workers. Implementation and enforcement of these EU radiation protection legal requirements fall within the responsibility of the Member States. With reference to the anonymous complaints of former workers of the Mol research reactor, the Belgian Federal Authority for Nuclear Control (FANC) made an enquiry which was published and presented to the Belgian Parliament on 31 January 2005. This report gives no evidence that nuclear safety and radiation protection measures in Mol were insufficient at any stage of the dismantling of the BR3 reactor. The Commission has no information about similar complaints in other Member States. The report also refers to a recent study on cancer and mortality rates of workers and the public Van Mieghem E., Holmstock L., Engels H., Van Regenmortel I. 2002. Kankersterfte rond de nucleaire site van Mol-Dessel, België. Tijdschr; voor Geneeskunde; 58 (19) . The study clearly states that cancer and mortality rates for workers occupationally exposed to ionising radiation and the public, in the SCK-CEN region, are not higher than those for other workers or the rest of the Belgian population.