21 October 2002 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 50(1) of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Gerard Collins on behalf of the UEN Group on the situation in Nepal Resolution on the situation in Nepal The European Parliament , - having regard to its previous resolutions on Nepal, A. whereas the elections due to take place in Nepal in November have been postponed and an interim nine-member Council of Ministers has been appointed by King Gyanendra Shah Dev under Article 127 of the Constitution, B. whereas Prime Minister Chand has stated that the Government is firm about holding the general elections at the earliest possible date and has indicated his intention to call for an all-party meeting so that the basic framework can be worked out to hold the elections, C. whereas consultations are also being carried out with the six mainstream political parties to enable them to join the Government, D. whereas finding a resolution to the Maoist problem, restoring law and order and putting an end to violence must remain top priorities for the interim Government, 1. Reaffirms its support for democratic governance and the principles of multi-party and constitutional monarchy as enshrined in the Constitution of Nepal; 2. Calls for an end to all acts of violence by the insurgent Maoists and points out that continued violence is not conducive to political stability nor democracy; 3. Expects the interim Government to work on the basis of broad political consensus; 4. Considers it essential that negotiations with the Maoists take place at an early stage so that they can be brought fully into the political process and expects the Government to be more specific about the conditions for opening such dialogue; 5. Calls for democratic elections to be held in a peaceful and safe atmosphere and urges the Government to announce the dates of and framework for both the general and local elections as soon as possible; 6. Calls on the Nepalese Government to tackle the underlying causes of the ongoing conflict, including issues such as poverty, exclusion, corruption and human rights; 7. Urges the Nepalese Government to continue its efforts to resolve the problem of the Bhutanese refugees who risk being sidelined by the present problems in Nepal; 8. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments of the Member States and the Government of Nepal.