total payments he has received. Should a participant breach the contract and should the consortium not make good this breach, the Commission may, as a last resort and if all other approaches have been explored, hold the participants liable under the following conditions: (a) Independently of the appropriate action it shall take against the defaulting participant, the Commission shall require the remaining participants to implement the indirect action. (b) Should the implementation be impossible or should the remaining participants refuse to comply with subparagraph (a), the Commission may terminate the contract and recover the Community financial contribution. When investigating the financial disadvantage, the Commission shall take into account the work already undertaken and results obtained, thereby establishing the debt. (c) For the part of the debt established according to subparagraph (b) that is owed by the defaulting participant, the Commission shall distribute it among the remaining participants, on the basis of each participant's share of the expenses accepted and up to the amount of the Community financial contribution each participant is entitled to receive. Where a participant is an international organisation, a public body or a legal entity whose participation in the indirect action is guaranteed by a Member State or an Associated State, that participant shall be responsible solely for its own debt and shall not bear the debt of any other participant. 3. Paragraph 2 shall not apply to indirect actions implemented by means of instruments such as specific research projects for SMEs, actions to promote and develop human resources and mobility and, when duly justified, specific support actions. 4. The coordinator shall keep accounts making it possible to determine at any time what portion of the Community funds has been allocated to each participant for the purposes of the project. He shall communicate that information to the Commission every year. 5. When several legal entities are grouped in a common legal entity acting as a single participant in accordance with Article 5 (4) , that legal entity shall take on the duties set out in paragraphs 1, 2(a) and 2(b). The liability of its members shall be defined according to the law under which this common legal entity was established. Article 14 Community financial contribution 1. In accordance with Annex III to the sixth framework programme, and within the limits of the Community framework for State aid for research and development OJ C 45, 17.2.1996, p. 5. , the Community financial contribution may take the following forms: (a) For networks of excellence, it shall take the form of a fixed grant for integration, on the basis of the joint programme of activities. The amount of that grant shall be calculated taking into account the degree of integration, the number of researchers that all participants intend to integrate and the characteristics of the field of research concerned and of the joint programme of activities . It shall be used to complement the resources deployed by the participants in order to carry out the joint programme of activities. This grant shall be paid out on the basis of results, following the