specific elements of the product description or production method justifying the link. Amendments 48 and 19 Article 5, paragraph 4, subparagraph 2 The Member State shall scrutinize the application by appropriate means to check that it is justified and meets the conditions of this Regulation. The Member State , if appropriate in cooperation with the regional authorities, shall immediately scrutinize the application by appropriate means to check that it is justified and meets the conditions of this Regulation. Amendment 20 Article 5, paragraph 5, subparagraph 1 5. As part of the scrutiny referred to in paragraph 4, the Member State shall initiate an objection procedure at national level, ensuring adequate publication of the application allowing a reasonable period within which any person having a legitimate interest and established or resident on its territory may declare their objection to the application. 5. As part of the scrutiny referred to in paragraph 4, the Member State shall initiate an objection procedure at national level, ensuring adequate publication of the application allowing a period of three months within which any person having a legitimate interest and established or resident on its territory may declare their objection to the application. Amendment 21 Article 5, paragraph 7, point a a (new) (aa) the product specification referred to in Article 4; Amendment 22 Article 5, paragraph 9, subparagraph 1 9. Where the registration application concerns a geographical area situated in a third country, it shall comprise the elements provided for in paragraph 3 and also proof that the name in question is protected in its country of origin. 9. Where the registration application concerns a geographical area situated in a third country, it shall comprise the elements provided for in paragraph 3 and also proof that the name in question is protected in its country of origin. If the Commission is not satisfied as to certain elements of the application, it shall be entitled to insist that a third-country applicant provide all relevant additional information, including a copy of the specification. Amendment 23 Article 6, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 1. The Commission shall scrutinize the application in an appropriate manner to check that it is justified and meets the conditions of this Regulation. 1. Within six months, the Commission shall scrutinize the application in an appropriate manner to check that it is justified and meets the conditions of this Regulation. Amendment 24 Article 6, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 2. Where the conditions laid down in this Regulation appear to be met, the Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union the single document and the reference to the publication of the specification referred to in the fifth subparagraph of Article 5(5). 2. Where the conditions laid down in this Regulation appear to be met and no longer than 6 months after receipt of the application referred to in Article 5(7) , the Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union the single document and the reference to the publication of the specification referred to in the fifth subparagraph of Article 5(5). Amendment