by delegation or subdelegation: a) verifies that the debt exists; b) determines or verifies the reality and the amount of the debt; c) verifies the conditions in which the debt is due. 2. The own resources made available to the Commission and any amount receivable that is identified as being certain, of a fixed amount and due must be established by a recovery order to the accounting officer followed by a debit note sent to the debtor, both drawn up by the authorising officer responsible. 3. Amounts wrongly paid shall be recovered. 4. The conditions in which interest on late payment is due to the Communities shall be laid down in the implementing rules. Section 4 Authorisation of recovery Article 72 1. The authorisation of recovery is the act whereby the authorising officer by delegation or subdelegation responsible instructs the accounting officer, by issuing a recovery order, to recover an amount receivable which he/she has established. 2. The institution may formally establish an amount as being receivable from persons other than States by means of a decision which shall be enforceable within the meaning of Article 256 of the EC Treaty. Section 5 Recovery Article 73 1. The accounting officer shall act on recovery orders for amounts receivable duly established by the authorising officer responsible. He/She shall exercise due diligence to ensure that the Communities receive their revenue and shall see that their rights are safeguarded. The accounting officer shall recover amounts by offsetting them against equivalent claims that the Communities have on any debtor who himself/herself has a claim on the Communities that is certain, of a fixed amount and due. 2. Where the responsible authorising officer by delegation is planning to waive recovery of an established amount receivable, he/she shall ensure that the waiver is in order and complies with the principle of sound financial management and proportionality in accordance with the procedures and the criteria laid down in the implementing rules. The waiver decision must be substantiated. The authorising officer may delegate the decision only as laid down in the implementing rules. Article 74 Revenue received by way of fines, periodic penalty payments and other penalties and any accrued interest shall not be finally recorded as budgetary revenue as long as the decisions imposing them may be annulled by the Court of Justice. The first paragraph shall not apply to decisions on clearance of accounts or financial corrections. CHAPTER 6 Expenditure operations Article 75 1. Every item of expenditure shall be committed, validated, authorised and paid. 2. Except in the case of appropriations which can be implemented without a basic act in accordance with Article 49(2), the commitment of the expenditure shall be preceded by a financing decision adopted by the institution or the authorities to which powers have been delegated by the institution. Section 1 Commitment of expenditure Article 76 1. The budgetary commitment is the operation reserving the appropriation necessary to cover subsequent payments to honour a legal commitment. The legal commitment is the act whereby the authorising officer enters into or establishes an obligation which results