and sincere dialogue can lead to a lasting settlement, F. whereas, bar an official international press trip organised by the Chinese Government, the international press has been denied access to the region of Tibet to report on the events and all journalists have been expelled; whereas the aforementioned international press trip was heavily controlled and the participating journalists were denied unrestricted access to the Tibetan people, G. whereas the Chinese Government appears to be blocking foreign websites inside China and censoring foreign television broadcasts about the situation in Tibet, H. convinced that the Beijing Olympic Games are an extraordinary opportunity for China to open itself to the world and vice versa, and to demonstrate that it can honour its undertakings as regards the promotion of fundamental rights for all Chinese people, without distinction, I. whereas the EU-China human rights dialogue established in 2000 has failed to achieve the expected results; 1. Firmly condemns the brutal repression by the Chinese security forces against Tibetan demonstrators and all acts of violence from whichever source that have taken place in the streets of Lhasa and elsewhere in Tibet, and expresses its sincere condolences to the families of the victims; 2. Calls on the Chinese Government to guarantee adequate medical care for injured Tibetans and legal assistance for arrested Tibetans; appeals to the authorities to present an account of their detainees, to treat them in accordance with international human rights law and, under all circumstances, refrain from torture; 3. Criticises the often discriminatory treatment of non-Han Chinese ethnic minorities; calls on China to honour its commitments to human and minority rights and the rule of law; urges China not to misuse the 2008 Olympic Games by arresting dissidents, journalists and human rights activists in order to prevent demonstrations and reports which the authorities view as embarrassing to them; 4. Calls for an open and independent inquiry into the recent riots and repression in Tibet under the auspices of the UN; 5. Welcomes the fact that HH the Dalai Lama has called on the Tibetan people to protest non-violently and has rejected calls for Tibetan independence and instead proposed the middle way of genuine cultural and political autonomy, and religious freedom; 6. Calls on the Chinese authorities to open up Tibet to the foreign media and diplomats, in particular EU representatives; urges the Chinese authorities to immediately stop censoring and blocking news and information websites based abroad; calls for the release of all journalists, internet users and cyber-dissidents detained in China for exercising their right to information; 7. Calls on China to respect its own public commitments to human rights and minority rights, democracy and the rule of law announced during the International Olympic Committee (IOC) decision to allow China to organise the Games; 8. Urges China to ratify without any further delay and in any case before the Olympic Games the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; calls on Beijing to establish a moratorium on death penalty, as called by the UN resolution adopted on 18 December 2007; 9. Regrets that the six sessions of