Question for oral answer O-000090/2011 to the Commission Rule 115 Bendt Bendtsen on behalf of the PPE Group Edit Herczog on behalf of the S&D Group Fiona Hall on behalf of the ALDE Group Reinhard Bütikofer on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group Giles Chichester on behalf of the ECR Group Niki Tzavela on behalf of the EFD Group Subject: Small Business Act (SBA) review On 23 February 2011, two and a half years after the adoption of the SBA in June 2008, the Commission adopted the Communication on Review of the Small Business Act for Europe (COM(2011)0078). The Commission carried out and published a first report on implementation of the SBA at EU and Member State level in December 2009. Based on findings in that report, the Commission proposed in its Communication a set of new and renewed measures/actions on tackling identified challenges to the proper implementation of the SBA principles. 1. What measures does the Commission intend to take to ensure a better implementation of the SBA principles, such as the ‘Think Small First’ principle and the SME test, in the Member States? 2. Does the Commission intend to put a stronger emphasis on those financial instruments which are already working successfully but are not sufficient in volume (CIP, EIB ones) or those that are better suited to financing risk for SMEs such as mezzanine instruments? 3. Has the Commission delivered on its promise to cut the administrative burden for SMEs by 25%? Is a clear analysis available showing that there has been a net reduction taking into account all legislation, both in force and proposed? 4. What initiatives is the Commission considering to help SMEs actively engage in actions reducing their environmental impact today and to gain economic benefits from energy efficiency measures? 5. At a time of increasing demographic challenges SMEs are facing fierce competition for a skilled workforce; unfortunately, the SBA Review Communication lacks attention to labour markets and SMEs’ skills requirements. What does the Commission plan in this regard?