WRITTEN QUESTION E-1665/10 by Ramon Tremosa i Balcells (ALDE) to the Commission (19 March 2010) Subject: Further question on the Spanish Government's ban on international flights to Barcelona to strengthen Madrid's airport monopoly Europe is currently facing a severe crisis. Increasing globalisation means that its different regions need direct links with the rest of the world. Air transport was already liberalised in the 1970s in the US and 10 years later in the EU. Airlines are private companies competing on a single market. The AENA (the Spanish air transport agency) is a state monopoly in Spain that is closed to regional and local governments and the private sector. The AENA allows only one hub airport in Spain, in Madrid, in contrast to Italy (where there are two hubs, in Milan and Rome) and Germany (where there are also two hubs, in Frankfurt and Munich). In all advanced economies, airports are now managed individually by local bodies and private enterprises. However, Spain has signed bilateral agreements with 23 countries banning flights to any Spanish airport other than Madrid-Barajas and thus stymieing Barcelona airport's chances of becoming a hub airport and maximising the potential of the Catalan economy. A number of points might be raised in relation to the statement made by the Commission in its answer to the previous question on this subject (E‑0103/10), that ‘restrictive bilateral agreements with third countries differ profoundly from what has been achieved within the European internal market where EU airlines can operate freely where they wish, provided they conform with EU common rules. However, restrictive bilateral agreements are by no means unusual in worldwide aviation, nor illegal if they comply with the requirements of the EC law as evidenced in the findings of the European Court of Justice’. If the Commission considers it vital to boost competitiveness and productivity in the European Union internal market, will it not do everything in its power to try and change the situation, given the currently underexploited potential of Barcelona-El Prat airport? Does the Commission not believe that changing the model of airport management in Spain, following the pattern set by advanced economies, would prove more beneficial in terms of making the Spanish economy as a whole more competitive? Does the Commission not believe that Spain, the country with the lowest increase in productivity in Europe over the past 15 years, needs to take the basic step of liberalising Spanish airport management, a step already taken by most of the Member States and the US in the last century? Does the Commission not believe that this matter (the above bilateral agreements) is not so much a dispute between a central government and a regional government as a key issue in the debate between free competition and monopoly in airport management?