person responsible for placing the plant protection product on the market or using it. Article 77 Fund for safe disposal of obsolete pesticides Producers and authorisation holders shall contribute to a fund covering the costs associated with the disposal and destruction of stocks of obsolete pesticides in Member States and third countries. The contribution to the fund shall be distributed in a fair and transparent manner. Article 78 Fees and charges 1. Member States may recover the costs associated with any work they carry out in connection with approvals or authorisations within the scope of, or arising from obligations under, this Regulation, by means of fees or charges. 2. Member States shall ensure that the fee or charge referred to in paragraph 1: a) is established in a transparent manner; and b) corresponds to the actual cost of the work involved. The fee or charge may include a scale of fixed charges based on average costs for the work referred to in paragraph 1. Article 79 Member State authority 1. Each Member State shall designate a competent authority or authorities to carry out the obligations of the Member States as defined in this Regulation. 2. Each Member State shall designate a coordinating national authority to coordinate and ensure all the necessary contacts with applicants, other Member States, the Commission and the Authority. 3. Each Member State shall give the details concerning its national competent authority or authorities to the Commission, the Authority and the coordinating national authorities of the other Member States and inform them of any modifications thereof. 4. The Commission shall publish and keep updated on its website a list of the authorities referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. Article 80 Expenditure by the Commission 1. The Commission may incur expenditure for activities contributing to the aims of this Regulation including the organisation of the following: a) development of a harmonised system, including an appropriate database, for gathering and storing all information concerning active substances, safeners, synergists, co-formulants, plant protection products and adjuvants and for making such information available to the Member States, producers and other interested parties; b) performance of studies needed to prepare and develop further legislation on the placing on the market and use of plant protection products and adjuvants; c) performance of studies needed to harmonise procedures, decision-making criteria and data requirements; d) coordination, if necessary by electronic means, of cooperation between Member States, the Authority and the Commission and measures to facilitate work sharing; e) development and maintenance of a coordinated electronic submission and evaluation system aimed at promoting electronic document exchange and work sharing between the applicants, the Member States, the Authority and the Commission; f) development of guidance to facilitate the day-to-day implementation of this Regulation; g) travel and subsistence expenses that Member States" experts incur as a result of the Commission appointing them to assist its experts in the framework of control activities laid down under Article 71 ; h) training of control staff; i) financing of other measures needed to ensure application of the Regulation adopted under Article 71 .