small interventions, think of larger system stability. · Instead of just aid, think of wider instruments that are at disposal of Union and its members - trade, guarantees, convening power, Europe has considerable voice in multi-lateral institutions. · Use voice and convening power to effect changes in multi-lateral instruments of intervention that have become outdated or inflexible. · Money to underwrite double compact, geared to finding exit strategies. · Bringing coherence to Europe's interventions. · Use of twinning, Modalities where elites and publics of countries interact and understand modalities of governance. · Given special relationship, coordination between US and EU. IV Next steps · Different modalities of proceeding: gradual or fundamental. · If harmonization is to be translated into practice, requires building up of local systems - procurement, accounting, auditing. Currently, EC rules are in conflict with national systems. · Budget as instrument of policy and accountability in countries, just as in EC. · Use of multi-lateral trust funds as a mechanism of accountability and predictability. · Building on experience of Accession, systematic attempt to build capacity for performance of function through benchmarking over time. · Countries are looking for examples of success from aid - pilots become important to allow focus and create success stories. · Choice of countries for testing this type of model, pooling of funds, creating monitoring instruments for comparison with more fragmented ways, in partnership with US and multi-laterals where key issues of selectivity and coordination can be addressed. · Reporting - instead of thousands of reports, a single index on state effectiveness as a means of system audit, common audit, common strategy formulation and benchmarking of implementation. V Conclusion Requires shift from project implementation to a repertoire of roles - convenor, partner, catalyst, co-producer and monitor of development process, around the goal of state-building. Requires articulation of a vision of the whole world - Sixty years ago security and development could be articulated for half the world. Now whole world needs to be made secure. Europe's advantage is that it has repositioned sovereignty as critical obstacle to cooperation, and delineated path for systematic yet gradual search for collective solutions. Needs to bring this experience and imagination to both its partnership with the Atlantic and with the broader world. on pilot projects and preparatory actions "Small opportunities are often the beginning of great enterprises." Demosthenes Working document on pilot projects and preparatory actions Introduction 1. This working document sets out the situation as regards pilot projects (PPs) and preparatory actions (PAs) for the 2007 budget procedure as well as making a link with the PPs and PAs adopted for 2006. It does so in the context of the new inter-institutional agreement (IIA) of 17 May 2006 and in light of the Council's draft budget 2007. 2. The working document is structured as follows. Part I sets out the legal framework. Part II deals with PPs and PAs in the 2007 budget procedure. Part III looks at PPs and PAs from 2006 budget and earlier procedures. The Annex provides an overview of the figures for current and proposed