should be product focused rather than structure focused – it needs to produce results. Amendment 14 Recital 15 (15) In order to increase the impact of the EDCTP Programme, the Community should participate in this programme with a financial contribution of €200 million. (15) In order to increase the impact of the EDCTP Programme, the Community should participate in this programme with a financial contribution of €200 million. This and all contributions to the EDCTP Programme will be subject to the principles of sound and efficient management to ensure maximum value is added to research and technological development efforts. Justification Self explanatory – the EDCTP should endeavour not to duplicate efforts and should be outcomes focused. Amendment 15 Recital 18a (new) (18a) Developing countries lack the clinical, regulatory and community infrastructure necessary to participate effectively in undertaking clinical research; and without active programmes, such as the Programme for Action, to strengthen and develop such capacity, developing countries will not be able to play the essential role expected in the EDCTP partnership. Justification The Programme for Action has identified lack of regulatory and community capacity to approve and participate in clinical trials. If developing countries are to be true partners in the EDCTP they must be enabled to play a full and informed role in decision making. This will require appropriate training, networking and support to be provided. Amendment 16 Recital 19 (19) It is essential that the research activities carried out under the EDCTP Programme conform to basic ethical principles, particularly those set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (19) It is essential that the research activities carried out under the EDCTP Programme conform to basic ethical principles, particularly those set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union , and as defined in the World Medical Association’s Helsinki Declaration on the ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects. Justification The World Medical Association has adopted the Helsinki Declaration laying down the ethical principles which must apply to medical research involving human subjects. That declaration, which comes from within the medical profession, must be taken as a reference for any clinical-trial programme conducted anywhere in the world. Amendment 17 Recital 19a (new) (19a) The European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP) must apply the sound clinical practices laid down in Directive 2001/20/EC on the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use in the European Union. Justification On 4 April 2001, Parliament and the Council adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. The parties to the EDCTP programme should adopt the same rules so as to prevent any distortion or discrimination from arising between the ethical standards required inside and outside the European Union. Amendment 18 Article 1,