Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (21 May 2010) The Commission wishes to inform the Honourable Member that since the adoption of the Parliament's Resolution of 29 March 2007 on the future of professional football in Europe, considerable progress has been accomplished in establishing a process of dialogue and consultation with football authorities in Europe. On 28-29 November 2007, a high-level conference to discuss measures against violence and racism in sport events was organised under the auspices of the EU Presidency, the Commission, the Parliament and the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA). It gathered delegates representing governmental and non-governmental organisations, from both political and sport communities. The conference focused on law enforcement cooperation, fan culture, cooperation with local authorities and judicial cooperation. On 2 July 2008 the European Sectoral Social Dialogue Committee for Professional Football was established. This Committee brings together the International Federation of Professional Footballers' Associations-Division Europe (FIFPro) and the Association of European Professional Football Leagues (EPFL). The employers' side is complemented by the European Club Association (ECA). Given the specificity of sport governance, the social partners have invited UEFA to chair their dialogue. Work in the Committee has progressed towards the establishment of minimum requirements for professional players' contracts. In the context of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, the Commission, UEFA and Football Against Racism in Europe (FARE) launched in September 2008 a joint TV spot highlighting tolerance and the role of languages as bridges between people. The spot was watched by millions of TV viewers across Europe and beyond since it was aired during the half-time break throughout the entire 2008/2009 season's televised UEFA Champions League football games. On 17-18 September 2009 the Commission organised in Brussels a major Conference on Licensing systems for clubs competitions. It gathered representatives of football (UEFA and national federations, leagues, clubs and players) as well as representatives of other team sports with an interest in the issue of licensing systems, in order to facilitate the exchange of views and sharing of good practices on this topic. The Commission wishes to inform the Honourable Member that a formal framework agreement for consultation with European and national football governing bodies has not been established. The Commission is of the opinion that dialogue with football authorities should take place within the framework of the structured dialogue existing between the Commission and sports stakeholders. This dialogue is based on ad hoc bi-lateral and multi-lateral meetings to discuss specific topics and on an annual event (the European Sport Forum) gathering representatives of the European sport movement in all its diversity.