Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (7 June 2006) The Commission's attention has been drawn to a number of parliamentary questions See among others, Questions 703/06 and 1526/06. concerning cases involving seasonal workers recruited in Portugal to work in the Netherlands. As already stated in the replies to those questions, it is doubtful, from the evidence available to the Commission, that such cases are in any way related to a situation of posting to which Directive 96/71/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services OJ L 18, 21.1.1997. applies. In any case, it is up to the national authorities of the country where workers carry out their activity to monitor and enforce their labour legislation and prevent and prosecute illegal employment as well as human trafficking for the purpose of labour exploitation in accordance with the Council framework decision of 19 July 2002 on combating trafficking in human beings OJ L 203, 1.8.2002. . To the extent that such workers are recognised as being posted workers, Article 5 of the aforementioned directive applies: ‘Member States should take appropriate measures in the event of failure to comply with this directive. They shall in particular ensure that adequate procedures are available to workers and/or their representatives for the enforcement of obligations under this directive.’ The Honourable Member should also note that on 4 April 2006 the Commission adopted a communication COM(2006)159 final. setting out guidance on the posting of workers with a view to assisting the Member States in conforming to their obligations under the directive. With regard to their obligations to enforce the provisions of the directive guaranteeing a floor of minimum rights for posted workers, the Commission invites Member States to re-examine their systems for monitoring and implementing Directive 96/71/EC. Mechanisms should be put in place in order to remedy any deficiencies, monitor irregularities, and effectively sanction employers who do not comply with the rules. The Commission is ready to work jointly with Member States in order to improve transnational cooperation of labour inspectorates in the subject areas covered by the directive.