joint participation in the commission of a criminal act of two or more conspiring legally capable persons who have attained the age specified in Article 13 of this Code. 2. Accomplices in a criminal act shall include a perpetrator, an organiser, an abettor and an accessory. 3. A perpetrator shall be a person who has committed a criminal act either by himself or by involving legally incapacitated person or the persons who have not yet attained the age specified in Article 13 of this Code or other persons who are not guilty of that act. If the criminal act has been committed by several persons acting together, each of them shall be considered a perpetrator/co-perpetrator. 4. An organiser shall be a person who has formed an organised group or a criminal association, has been in charge thereof or has co-ordinated the activities of its members or has prepared a criminal act or has been in charge of the commission thereof. 5. An abettor shall be a person who has incited another person to commit a criminal act. 6. The accessory shall be a person who has aided in the commission of a criminal act through counselling, issuing instructions, providing means or removing obstacles, protecting or shielding other accomplices, who has promised in advance to conceal the offender, hide the instruments or means of commission of the criminal act, the traces of the act or the items acquired by criminal means, also a person who has promised in advance to handle the items acquired or produced in the course of the criminal act. Article 222. Fraudulent Management of Accounts 1. A person who fraudulently manages the accounts required by legal acts or conceals, destroys or damages accounting documents, where this disables, fully or in part, determination of the person ’ s activities, the amount or structure of the assets, equity or liabilities thereof, shall be punished by a fine or by arrest or by imprisonment for a term of up to four years. 2. A legal entity shall also be held liable for the acts provided for in this Article. Article 220. Provision of Inaccurate Data on Income, Profit or Assets 1. A person who, seeking to evade payment of taxes, provides data on the person ’ s income, profit, assets or the use thereof that are known to be inaccurate in a tax return or in a report approved in accordance with the approved procedure or another document and submits such information to an institution authorised by the State shall be punished by deprivation of the right to be employed in a certain position or to engage in a certain type of activities or by imprisonment for a term of up to three years. 2. A person who commits the act indicated in paragraph 1 of this Article having the aim of evading payment of taxes in the amount not exceeding 10 MSLs shall be considered to have committed a misdemeanour and shall be punished by community service or by a fine or by restriction of liberty. 3. A legal entity shall