threatened, K. whereas the Russian authorities, including the State Duma delegation, have unfortunately refused to enter into dialogue with the Estonian authorities and declined even to participate in a joint press conference at the Foreign Ministry, L. whereas Metropolitan Kornelius of the Russian Orthodox Church in Estonia has stated that there are no grounds for intercommunal conflict and that he sees no reason to present the riots as a conflict between Estonian-language and Russian-language communities, M. whereas only a tiny part of the ethnic Russian population participated in the demonstrations and looting, the considerable number of policemen of Russian background performed their duty with excellence, and the great majority of all those questioned approved the conduct of the Estonian Government, N. whereas Estonia, as an independent Member State of the EU and NATO, has the sovereign right to assess its recent tragic past, starting with the loss of independence as a result of the Hitler-Stalin Pact of 1939 and including three years under Hitler’s occupation and terror, as well as 48 years under Soviet occupation and terror, O. whereas the Soviet occupation and annexation of the Baltic States was never recognised as legal by the Western democracies, P. whereas the European Parliament, in its resolution of 12 May 2005, concluded that ‘for some nations the end of World War II meant renewed tyranny inflicted by the Stalinist Soviet Union’ and congratulated the Central and Eastern European countries on the occasion of having become free ‘after so many decades under Soviet domination or occupation…’, Q. whereas only the legal successor to the Soviet Union, the Russian Federation, still denies the fact of illegal incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union, R. whereas the Russian Federation continues with hostile rhetoric against the Estonian Republic, 1. Expresses its support for, and solidarity with, the democratically elected Estonian Government in its efforts to guarantee order, stability and the rule of law for all residents of Estonia; 2. Regards attacks targeting one of the smallest EU Member States as a test case for the European Union’s solidarity, and invites the Council and the Commission to demonstrate strongly their unity with Estonia; 3. Considers inadmissible the various attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of Estonia by the Russian authorities (such as calls for the resignation of the Estonian Government) and recalls that under the Helsinki Agreements no country has the right to decide on the destiny of another country; 4. Is alarmed by the scandalously inadequate protection of the Estonian Embassy in Moscow by the Russian authorities and the physical attacks on the Estonian Ambassador by the ‘Nashi’ demonstrators; calls on the Russian Government to respect the Vienna Convention on the protection of diplomats without any exception; 5. Condemns the attempts by Russia to exert economic pressure on Estonia as an instrument of foreign policy and calls on the Russian Government to restore normal economic relations between the two States; 6. Reminds the Russian authorities that the indiscriminate and openly hostile rhetoric used by the Russian authorities against Estonia is in sharp contrast to the