regulations concerning criminal and civil procedure, namely with respect to supporting victims of crime and taking specific account of the principles set out hereafter. (Amendment 11) Recital 11 (11) The provisions of this Framework Decision are confined to looking after victims" interests under criminal procedure. (11) The rules of this Framework Decision are concerned with looking after victims" interests under criminal procedure. (Amendment 12) Recital 12 (12) For that reason, leaving aside any future addressing of the whole issue of compensation for crime victims within the Union, the provisions of this Framework Decision regarding compensation, as well as those regarding mediation, relate to criminal procedure and thus do not concern arrangements under civil procedure. (12) For that reason, while it is also necessary to address the whole issue of compensation for crime victims within the Union, the provisions of this Framework Decision regarding compensation, as well as those regarding mediation, relate to criminal procedure and thus do not concern arrangements under civil procedure. (Amendment 13) Recital 13 (13) It is necessary to approximate arrangements under criminal procedure as regards the standing and main rights of victims, with particular regard to the right to be treated with respect for their dignity, the right to provide and receive information, the right to understand and be understood, the right to be protected at the various stages of procedure, the right to have allowance made for the disadvantage of living in a different Member State from the one in which they were a victim , etc . (13) It is necessary to approximate arrangements under criminal procedure as regards the standing and main rights of victims, particularly children, including the right to be treated with respect for their dignity, the right to provide and receive information, the right to understand and be understood, the right to be protected at the various stages of procedure, the right to have allowance made for the disadvantage of living in a different Member State from the one in which they were a victim. (Amendment 14) Recital 14 (14) It is important to afford victims the best legal protection and defence of their interests, irrespective of the Member State in which they are present. (14) It is necessary to guarantee victims proper access to justice with the best legal protection and appropriate defence of their interests, irrespective of the Member State in which they are present. (Amendment 18) Article 1(a) (a) "victim" shall mean a natural person who suffers any form of crime within the territory of any Member State. In the event of crime victims" death, members of their family or persons in a similar position may also be regarded as victims, having regard in both cases to the domestic legal provisions of the Member State in which procedure takes place. (a) "victim" shall mean a natural person who suffers any form of crime within the territory of any Member State. In the event of crime victims" death, members of their family or persons in a similar position shall also be regarded as victims. (Amendment 19) Article 1(b) (b) "victim