UK policyholders", adding that "on completion of the sale of EL, the company expects to be in a position to restore the cut in the value of with-profits policies that will result from its revised bonus policy." It concluded hoping the information will enable BAV " to allay some of the broader concerns of German policyholders." Then, as the sale of Equitable Life failed to materialize and it was forced to close to new business, BAV contacted the FSA again on 13 December 2000, asking for explanations in the light of their August letter. The FSA reply came again promptly on 3 January 2001 and - referring to previous phone contacts - reiterated the point that " EL remains solvent, existing policies remain valid and it is able to meet its contractual obligations to policyholders", going as far as defining "many of the press reports in relation to EL have been inaccurate and speculative" and closed by saying that the FSA "will not be requiring the company to provide a new valuation." Following contacts between the UK and German regulators were limited to announcing the prospective closure of EL's German branch (30 June 2001) which prompted a reply from BAV reminding that " some policyholders only took out a policy with EL because it had a branch in Germany ", and expressing their wish " that German policyholders continue to receive an optimal service in the future." BAV closed by requesting "a statement on how the German policyholders are to be served in the future." No reply from FSA appears on record, and contacts between regulators seem to have loosened afterwards, as BAV had to write again twice (on 7 November 2001 and 19 March 2002) asking FSA for a clear confirmation on the closure date of the EL German branch, which was shut down on 30 September 2001. Existing German policies are today being served through 'ELAS CSC Germany', Aylesbury, UK. Finally, referring to the sharing of supervisory responsibilities between the UK and German regulators during the period prior to the entry into force of 3LD, WE-CONF26 asserted that "under the regime of the Second Life Directive ELAS early German branch business has to be considered not a scenario of 'passive freedom of services'. It was the ELAS German Branch that actively approached German policyholders. This qualifies ELAS early German branch business for active freedom of services rather than art.13 of the Second Life Directive." As such it " was to be supervised by the supervisory arrangements of Germany and the BAV and not by those of the UK and the FSA." UK/Ireland As recalled by the Irish Financial Regulator in WE61 " EL operated a branch in Ireland from 1991 to 2001 and sold policies to Irish citizens. Under 3LD, the Irish branch was subject to prudential regulation by the UK regulator ... and closed to new business in December 2000, at the same time as the UK head office, and has not sold any new policies since then. EL is servicing its remaining Irish policyholders on a cross-border basis