economy as a whole, with no possibility of distinguishing between the various economic sectors – households, companies and government. However, analysing the behaviour of the various economic operators is of the greatest importance for economic analysis and monetary policy. In the United States, for example, the Federal Reserve has a complete range of quarterly sectoral accounts at its disposal on which to base its decisions. The 5th Report of the Economic and Financial Committee on the implementation of the action plan on Economic and Monetary Union, adopted by the Ecofin Council on 18 February 2003, clearly states the need for action in this field. It considers that the lack of information on the behaviour of households and companies in the business cycle is a major deficiency of EMU statistics. Finally, the EMU action plan itself, as approved by the Ecofin Council in September 2000, states that a limited set of quarterly sectoral accounts is needed as soon as possible and that they must be available within 90 days of the end of the relevant quarter. The aim of the draft regulation under consideration is to meet these major political needs by creating a common framework for the contributions of the Member States to the compilation of quarterly European accounts by institutional sector. These new accounts should make it possible to analyse the reactions of each economic sector to business cycle developments. They will make it possible, in particular, to monitor households' saving and consumption and the profitability of financial and non-financial businesses. 2. Key points in the proposal for a regulation The key issues addressed in the draft regulation are presented below. List of variables The list of variables has been extensively discussed in order to meet user requirements, both in terms of data availability and quality, while limiting the work-load for Member States. The data to be reported do not go beyond what is necessary for the compilation of high-quality European accounts. Partial exemptions In order to limit the work-load on Member States, it is proposed that countries which only make a small contribution to the European totals should be exempt from reporting some of the data. Thus, those countries whose GDP is lower than 1% of the EU25 total will not have to report data on transactions in the households and companies sectors. The countries involved are: - all the countries currently acceding, except Poland - Luxembourg However, all the Member States will have to transmit detailed data on transactions in the essential 'general government' and 'rest of the world' sectors. Reporting deadlines To meet the objective of the Action Plan, the Member States are asked to transmit the quarterly sectoral accounts data at the latest 90 days after the end of the quarter to which the data relate. 3. Rapporteur's opinion It is now accepted that the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union and the single market require coordination of appropriate economic policies and monetary policy. Such policies demand precise statistical instruments which make it possible to analyse not only the European economy as a whole but also