November 2003 the Council reached a political agreement amending key points of the original Commission proposal. Given that substantial changes had been made to the Commission proposal, the Council decided to consult Parliament once again. The aim of the proposal for a directive is to combat illegal immigration involving gangs of smugglers acting on non-humanitarian grounds and exploitation in the form of trafficking in human beings. With that aim in view, victims of actions to facilitate illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the competent authorities are to be granted a short-term residence permit. According to a study carried out by the German Federal Office of Criminal Investigation, a total of 926 victims of trafficking in human beings were registered in the Federal Republic of Germany in 2000. Of these 926, 81.5% were nationals of a Central or Eastern European country and all were women. Your draftswoman is therefore advocating the incorporation into the proposal of two recitals which highlight this problem. In the text on which political agreement has been reached the Council proposes that victims of actions to facilitate illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings should be granted a reflection period to enable them to recover and escape the influence of the perpetrators of the offences in question. It is left to the Member States to determine the precise duration of that reflection period. With a view to laying down a uniform reflection period applicable in all the Member States, your draftswoman is suggesting a period of 30 days from the point at which the third-country national breaks off all contact with the perpetrators. Leaving the decision as to the precise duration of the reflection period entirely to the discretion of national authorities would seem to be a step too far. At the same time, too long a reflection period would not be compatible with the aim of the directive, namely the speediest possible identification and arrest of the perpetrators of the offences involved. Pregnant women, victims of sexual or other forms of violence, disabled persons and minors are particularly vulnerable. It is very important that particular account should already be taken of the needs of such persons during the reflection period, i.e. prior to the issue of the residence permit. This point is not made with sufficient force in the Council text, so that a clarification is required. Your draftswoman is proposing that victims who are unaccompanied minors should be provided with accommodation in the following descending order of suitability: with adult relatives, with a foster family, in institutions specialising in the accommodation of minors, and in other forms of accommodation suitable for minors. The testimony given by victims of trafficking in human beings is vital to criminal investigations and proceedings. However, persons who act as witnesses in court proceedings and/or their relatives who have remained in their countries of origin are often subject to intimidation or even reprisals by the perpetrators of the offences in question. Member States must therefore protect the privacy of persons taking part in court proceedings and must guarantee that