of the case, including fresh evidence, would be (re)examined and which could lead to the original decision being quashed, expressly stated that he or she did not contest the decision Describe when and how the person expressly stated that he or she does not contest the decision rendered in absentia : Describe when the person was served with the decision, how he or she was informed about his/her right to a retrial or an appeal and when and how the person expressly stated that he or she did not contest the decision: ………………………………………… ………………………………………… Amendment 22 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 2 – point 4 Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA Annex – box d – point 2 - subpoint 2.3.1 - indent 1 – the person was expressly informed about the right to a retrial and to be present at that trial; and - the person was expressly informed, in a language which he or she understood , about the right to a retrial or an appeal , in which he or she would have the right to participate, at which the merits of the case, including fresh evidence, would be (re)examined and which could lead to the original decision being quashed, and Amendment 23 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 2 – point 4 Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA Annex – box d – point 2.3.2 ? 2.3.2 the person was not served with the decision rendered in absentia, and ? 2.3.2. the person was not served with the decision and – the person will be served with the decision rendered in absentia within … days after the surrender; and – the person will be personally served with the decision within … days after the surrender; and – when served with the decision rendered in absentia , the person will be expressly informed about the right to a retrial and to be present at that trial ; and – when served with the decision, the person will be expressly informed, in a language which he or she understands, about the right to a retrial or an appeal, in which he or she will have the right to participate, which will allow the merits of the case, including fresh evidence, to be (re)examined and which may lead to the original decision being quashed ; and – after being served with the decision rendered in absentia , the person will have … days to request a retrial. – after being served with the decision, the person will have ... days to request a retrial or an appeal . If you ticked box 2.3.2, please confirm ? that if the person concerned, when being informed in the executing State about the content of the European arrest warrant, requests a copy of the judgment before being