and 16 of its resolution of 15.11.1996 on the incorporation of the ECSC into the budget of the European Union (OJ C362, 2.12.1996, p. 327), and paragraph 8 of its resolution of 26.10.2000 on the draft ECSC operating budget for 2001. There exists today a number of micro-projects, which are not eligible for funding under the ECSC Treaty, but which could be financed as pilot projects under the general budget of the Community. These projects include health protection and incitement towards entrepreneurship. Such projects would be all the more necessary taking into account that redeployment and social aid will end once the ECSC Treaty expires. In order to correct this situation, the rapporteur suggests that, as from 2002, the appropriations required for the continuation of activities financed under the ECSC Treaty are entered under the appropriate headings in the general budget. The expiry of the ECSC Treaty will leave a gap in the different forms of aid provided to the regions concerned. To fill this gap, priority should be given to the following activities: * social and readjustment measures connected with the restructuring of the coal and steel sectors; * regional development action and other relevant Community programmes to be financed under the Structural Funds; * environmental protection to be financed under the Life programme; * transitional measures within the coal and steel sectors of the Central and Eastern European countries to be covered through the Phare and Tacis programmes. b) The integration and phasing-in of post-ECSC activities within the existing margin The inclusion of these activities in the general budget would require increased appropriations in the corresponding headings. At this stage, however, only research has been included in post-ECSC arrangements. The rest of the succeeding activities would have to be covered through existing programmes in the general budget. The rapporteur reminds that, according to a joint statement on financial programming approved on 20 July 2000, the budgetary authority must have accurate information about the financial consequences of each new proposal presented by the Commission. Therefore, the Commission should present a financial assessment of the post-ECSC activities being phased in the general budget as they may have an impact on the margin under the ceiling of each heading of the Financial Perspective. As regards the compatibility of such increases with current ceilings of the Financial Perspective, the rapporteur suggests that such a reference should be incorporated in the legislative text to avoid any restrictions on other currently funded policies. The legislative resolution should clearly indicate the need for further consultation of the budgetary authority should significant changes be made during renewal of the programmes financed under the general budget. c) Enlargement clause The post-ECSC arrangements will mean a dramatic drop compared to the current level of ECSC financed research (€ 79 million in 2001): the Coal and Steel Research Fund will have an annual budget of only € 45 million unless its assets are augmented through contributions from new Member States. Alternatively, coal and steel research could be increased under the Community framework programme. The rapporteur would be in favour of the