Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (12 December 2008) The Commission is well aware of the reduction in garlic producing areas in Andalusia; however this is probably due not only to increased imports but also to other factors such as, for example, increased production costs. The European Union is indeed a net importer of garlic, with an annual trade deficit of more than 60 000 tons in recent years. Demand on the domestic market is increasing and European prices are very high. China is the world's main producer and exporter of garlic and, therefore, it is not surprising that a large share of total EU imports come from there. Argentina is the other principal supplier although its share is much smaller (in the last few years, over 80 % of EU imports of garlic come from these 2 countries). There is no need to curb Chinese garlic imports as such. Nevertheless, garlic is an important product within the Community's fruit and vegetable sector. The customs duty on imports of garlic falling under CN code 07032000 (garlic fresh or chilled) consists of an ad valorem duty of 9.6 % and a specific amount of EUR 1 200 per ton, which represents a very high level of protection for the Community market. However, a total quota of 58 870 tons free of specific duty was opened following the signing of import agreements on tariff quotas. These tariff quotas are set out in Commission Regulation (EC) No 341/2007 of 29 March 2007 OJ L 90, 30.3.2007. , opening and providing for the administration of tariff quotas and introducing a system of import licences and certificates of origin for garlic and certain other agricultural products imported from third countries. The introduction of import licences for all imports of garlic and other products likely to be used and wrongly classified as garlic can also help to closely monitor imports and avoid fraud. The Commission considers that the existing quotas are proportionate to the needs of the internal market and there is no strong indication that imports under these quotas are a source of market disturbance.