for European decision makers but rather occasional light reading, that is unless, the Commission is able to summon up greater generosity of spirit – and only experience will show whether it can – so as to lift it out of the rut of ‘bureaucratic technology’, which has in the recent past all too frequently 'clipped its wings' … and not only its wings. III. Conclusions 1. The White Paper is addressed to all Community institutions. The European Parliament and its bodies, in particular the Committee on Petitions and European Ombudsman, play a very important role regarding the processing of complaints. By providing citizens of the European Union with the opportunity of tabling petitions, they constitute their only direct means of influencing and communicating with the European institutions. 2. The Petitions Committee, as in the past, is still taking far –reaching initiatives to further develop the right of petition for individual citizens , the rule of law and legal certainty. In recent years it has considered these issues in numerous opinions. Its latest report on ' the institution of petition at the dawn of the 21 st century' and its report currently being drawn up ' on the right of petition of European citizens: consolidation through amendment of the Treaty ' contain a number of proposals seeking to bring citizens close to the Union. 3. On the basis of a special report by the Ombudsman, the European Parliament recently drew up a report on the drawing up and public accessibility of a code of conduct for good administrative practice in the various Community institutions and organs . Despite the legal differences between the administrations of the Member States, it is of great importance to ensure that the same code of conduct for good administrative practice applies so as to ensure better treatment of citizens by all Community institutions, organs and bodies. 4. Public access to documentation in the European institutions is a very important instrument in ensuring that European Union activities are open and transparent and to guarantee effective participation by civil organisations and all Union citizens. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Petitions calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the committee responsible, to include the following in its report: A. considers that petitions to the European Parliament and complaints to the European Ombudsman as an institution provided for by the Treaty constitute an essential instrument and central element in a frank and transparent dialogue between the European institutions and citizens which is at the very heart of the White Paper, B. recalling its views expressed on consideration of annual activity reports of the Committee on Petitions and the European Ombudsman, C. recalling its report on transparency regarding action by the Community institutions through the adoption of a code of good administrative conduct and public access to documentation held by the Community institutions, D. regretting that the European Ombudsman, the 'instigator' of the report, was not consulted by the Commission on the White Paper, E. whereas the European Parliament unanimously ruled in favour of strengthening the powers of inquiry of the European Ombudsman removing