Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (30 March 2009) Within the framework of the Commission's follow-up to resolutions adopted by the Parliament, the Commission has informed Letter to the Secretariat General of the EP ref: D(2008)7086 5 September 2008. the EP about the follow-up to the written declaration on rheumatic illnesses P6_TA(2008)0262 . . In addition, as stated in the reply to Oral Question H‑0939/08 by Mrs Stihler during Question Time of the December II 2008 plenary session of the Parliament, the Commission would like to repeat that the Written Declaration of 5 June 2008 on rheumatic diseases calls inter alia on the Commission to develop a Community strategy for rheumatic diseases. According to Article 152 of the Treaty, Community action in the field of public health shall fully respect the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. It is therefore primarily for Members States to develop appropriate strategies to respond to rheumatic diseases. Nevertheless the Commission has supported the area of rheumatic diseases through the programmes of Community action in the field of health. A new project for a ‘European Musculoskeletal Conditions Surveillance and Information Network’ has been selected for funding in 2008. This project will contribute significantly to promote better understanding, knowledge and information on musculoskeletal conditions in the EU. In addition, the ongoing 7th Framework Programme for Research (FP7, 2007‑13), under the ‘Health’ Programme, proposes to undertake collaborative translational research in major diseases. Rheumatic diseases are explicitly mentioned in this section. As a result of the 2007 call for proposals, which included a topic on ‘early processes in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory diseases’, the proposal ‘Masterswitch’ (Mechanisms to attack steering effectors of rheumatoid syndromes with innovated therapy choices) was selected. The objective is to delineate the biological and molecular pathways that initiate and drive chronic inflammatory disease and to transform the knowledge obtained into the development of novel anti-inflammatory interventions. Focus will be given to Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) since longitudinal data indicate that intensive treatment can prevent persistency and chronicity. It integrates 17 leading research groups from 10 EU and associated countries for an overall contribution of EUR 11.2 million. Continued support for research on this subject in future calls within the FP7 is expected. Furthermore, at the recently held European League against Rheumatism (EULAR) European League Against Rheumatism. conference on 6 November 2008 in Budapest, the importance of rheumatic diseases (RD) as a subset of Musculo-Skeletal-Diseases (MSD) for Safety and Health at Work was highlighted, as well as its interconnectedness with the Community's anti-discrimination policies. Finally, and specifically on musculoskeletal disorders, the Commission, in its communication ‘Improving quality at work: Community strategy 2007‑12 on health and safety at work’ COM(2007)62 final of 21.2.2007. , has expressed its intention to find ways of improving risk prevention with regard to musculoskeletal disorders. With a view to achieve this, an impact assessment is currently under way.