in the Chamber during Christine De Veyrac's speech. The following spoke: Cecilia Malmström (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Werner Kuhn , on behalf of the PPE Group, Brian Simpson , on behalf of the S&D Group, Jelko Kacin , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Eva Lichtenberger , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Peter van Dalen , on behalf of the ECR Group, Jacky Hénin , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Luis de Grandes Pascual , Janusz Władysław Zemke , Gesine Meissner , Marian-Jean Marinescu , Jim Higgins and Artur Zasada . IN THE CHAIR: Silvana KOCH-MEHRIN Vice-President The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Gabriel Mato Adrover , Jörg Leichtfried , Izaskun Bilbao Barandica , Angelika Werthmann , José Manuel Fernandes , Silvia-Adriana Ţicău and Jelko Kacin . The following spoke: Cecilia Malmström and Christine De Veyrac . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 21.9.2010, item 5.3 . 17 Agreement between the EC and Pakistan on readmission - Community readmission agreements with third countries *** (debate) Recommendation on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Union and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation [ 2009/0036(NLE) ] - Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. Rapporteur: Csaba Sógor ( A7-0231/2010 ) Oral question ( O-0104/2010 ) by Sylvie Guillaume , Claude Moraes , on behalf of the S&D Group, Hélène Flautre , Judith Sargentini , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Cornelia Ernst , Rui Tavares , Marie-Christine Vergiat , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, and Malika Benarab-Attou , to the Commission: Community readmission agreements with third countries ( B7-0453/2010 ) Oral question ( O-0116/2010 ) by Nathalie Griesbeck and Renate Weber , on behalf of the ALDE Group , to the Commission: EU readmission agreements with third countries ( B7-0461/2010 ) Csaba Sógor introduced the recommendation. Claude Moraes , Hélène Flautre , Rui Tavares and Nathalie Griesbeck moved the oral questions. Cecilia Malmström (Member of the Commission) answered the oral questions. The following spoke: Gabriele Albertini (rapporteur for the opinion of the AFET Committee), Manfred Weber , on behalf of the PPE Group, Sylvie Guillaume , on behalf of the S&D Group, Cecilia Wikström , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Judith Sargentini , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Cornelis de Jong , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Philip Claeys , Non-attached Member, Carlos Coelho , Monika Flašíková Beňová , Nicole Kiil-Nielsen , Andrew Henry William Brons , Ernst Strasser , Rita Borsellino , Agustín Díaz de Mera García Consuegra , Emine Bozkurt and Birgit Sippel . IN THE CHAIR: Libor ROUČEK Vice-President The following spoke: Andreas Mölzer . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Georgios Papanikolaou , Franziska Keller , Franz Obermayr , Elena Băsescu and Harlem Désir . The following spoke: Cecilia Malmström and Csaba Sógor . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 21.9.2010, item 5.5 . 18 Trade and economic relations with Turkey (debate) Report on trade and economic relations with Turkey [