ANNEX II Conduct of Question Time under Rule 43 A. Guidelines 1. Questions shall be admissible only where they - are concise and are drafted so as to permit a brief answer to be given; - fall within the competence and sphere of responsibility of the Commission and the Council and are of general interest; - do not require extensive prior study or research by the institution concerned; - are clearly worded and relate to a specific matter; - do not contain assertions or opinions; - do not relate to strictly personal matters; - are not aimed at procuring documents or statistical information; - are interrogatory in form. 2. A question shall be inadmissible if the agenda already provides for the subject to be discussed with the participation of the institution concerned. 3. A question shall be inadmissible if an identical or similar question has been put down and answered during the preceding three months unless there are new developments or the author is seeking further information. In the first case a copy of the question and the answer shall be given to the author. Supplementary questions 4. Each Member may follow up the reply with a supplementary question to any question. He may put in all two supplementary questions. 5. Supplementary questions shall be subject to the rules of admissibility laid down in these Guidelines. 6. The President shall rule on the admissibility of supplementary questions and shall limit their number so that each Member who has put down a question may receive an answer to it. The President shall not be obliged to declare a supplementary question admissible, even where it satisfies the foregoing conditions of admissibility, if: (a) it is likely to upset the normal conduct of Question Time, or (b) the main question to which it relates has already been adequately covered by other supplementary questions, or (c) it has no direct bearing on the main question. Answers to questions 7. The institution concerned shall ensure that answers are concise and are relevant to the subject of the question. 8. If the content of the questions concerned permits it, the President may decide, after consulting the questioners, that the institution concerned should answer them together. 9. A question may be answered only if the questioner is present or has notified the President in writing, before Question Time begins, of the name of his substitute. 10. If neither the questioner nor his substitute is present, the question shall lapse. 11. If a Member tables a question, but neither he nor his substitute are present at Question Time, the President shall write to the Member reminding him of his responsibility to be present or substituted. If the President has to send such a letter three times in the space of any twelve-month period, the Member concerned shall lose his right to table questions at question time for a six-month period. 12. Questions that remain unanswered for lack of time shall be answered in accordance with Rule 44(4), first subparagraph, unless the authors thereof request application of Rule 44(3). 13. The