Answer given by Ms Kroes on behalf of the Commission (15 June 2011) The public consultation on eHealth will run until 25 May 2011 and help inform the new eHealth Action Plan 2012‑20 which is scheduled to be launched before the end of 2011. The overall policy objectives are: to continue to support Member States and healthcare providers so that they may benefit from ICT solutions in the best interest of patients, healthcare systems and society; to help enable an innovation friendly environment and to make best use of innovation in health. 1. We cannot pre-empt the results of the public consultation and speak of ‘priority targets’. We have seen evidence of the benefits of eHealth reaching a wide range of patients. Two examples are the elderly and those suffering from chronic diseases. The recently launched pilot European Innovation Partnership on Active and healthy Ageing (EIP) provides an opportunity to demonstrate the role of eHealth in the context of an ageing population and the associated rise of chronic diseases. To this end, stakeholders will identify a number of priority activities and services related to eHealth and active ageing which can be best deployed for the benefit of citizens. The Hungarian Presidency Declaration on eHealth, presented on 10 May 2011 is also an important source of inspiration. It encourages the establishment of concrete targets for telemedicine and telemonitoring deployment with the aim of reducing hospitalisation and improving quality of life, taking diabetes and chronic heart failure patients as an example. 2. With regard to the benefits of eHealth a number of eHealth solutions have been developed and are being implemented across Europe addressing the needs of the elderly and those who suffer from dementia. This could potentially be an area for the EIP to explore. The EIP Steering Group however will identify priority areas of intervention following the elaboration of a strategic implementation plan for th1e EIP which is scheduled to be launched in autumn 2011. 3. The control and monitoring of health services remain the competence of Member States. The European Commission continues to play a supporting and coordinating role to help Member States benefit from ICT solutions and exchange good practices. Our regular benchmarking studies, such as the recently launched report on eHealth services in hospitals http://ec.europa.eu/information_society/newsroom/cf/item-detail-dae.cfm?item_id=6952 also provide an important reference point in this area. 4. The communication on quality criteria for health related websites (COM(2002)667 final), defines a set of criteria to be used for assessing the quality of websites providing information about health issues and the Commission remains committed to enhancing the quality of health information available on line. The Commission is currently preparing amended proposals modifying in particular Directive 2001/83/EC regarding information to patients about medicinal products under medical prescription on the basis of amendments voted by the European Parliament in November 2010.