provide services. Non‑Dutch health insurers will be subject to the same restrictions and will also be entitled to claim payments under the risk equalisation system. 3. Because of the nature and social consequences of private health insurance contracts, the Third Non‑Life Insurance Directive Council Directive 92/49/EEC of 18 June 1992 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct insurance other than life assurance, OJ L 228, 11.8.1992. allows a Member State to adopt specific legal provisions in connection with health social security cover aimed at protecting the general good (e.g. open enrolment, lifetime and minimum cover, equalisation fund). However, to the extent that such requirements might restrict the freedom of establishment and the free provision of services, they must be objectively necessary and proportionate to the objective pursued. Non‑Dutch insurers who consider that the requirements imposed are not necessary or proportionate might consider taking the appropriate steps to put their objections to the competent Dutch jurisdictions. 4. The Commission initially notes that the Irish and Dutch risk equalisation funds in point have been designed in a different manner and have different operating mechanisms. However, from a State aid point of view it is emphasised that in both countries the risk equalisation funds embody the principle of solidarity. Furthermore, both funds aim at promoting the public good by ensuring the stability of the market and guaranteeing access to healthcare. Moreover, in both cases, the compensation mechanisms instituted under the risk equalisation funds were found to be justified as a compensation for obligations which qualify as services of general economic interest. Therefore, from a State aid point of view, the Commission would regard the Irish and Dutch risk equalisation fund as similar. Concerning the extent of care needed in operating respectively the Irish and the Dutch risk equalisation fund, the Commission does not know which assumptions are underlying the above statement. Nonetheless, it is emphasised that it is for Member States to define the content of their services of general economic interest. The role of the Commission is to check for manifest error. Thus, the Dutch authorities enjoy considerable flexibility to define the specific scope of the new Health Insurance Act and of the Sickness Fund. 5. With respect to the obligation imposed by the Care Insurance Act on insurers to guarantee the freedom to choose a doctor, the Commission will examine whether it can be considered as a specific legal provision aimed at protecting the general good.