EDCTP Programme must adopt the same rules to avoid creating distortion and discrimination between the ethical standards required inside the European Union and those required outside. Amendment 17 Article 1, paragraph 2 2. The Community shall pay a financial contribution amounting to a maximum of € 200 million for the duration of the sixth framework programme. 2. The Community shall contribute to the EDCTP Programme to a maximum of EUR 200 million for the duration of the sixth framework programme , and the most substantial proportion of this shall be spent in developing countries . Justification The unique value of this initiative lies in the fact that it has the particular purpose of dealing with problems relating to HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries. The decision must not be ambiguous about this point, and it is important that the EU funds should also be spent in developing countries. Amendment 18 Article 2, paragraph 2 2. The financial contribution form the Community shall be paid to the structure created by the participating States for the implementation of the EDCTP Programme (hereafter referred to as “common structure”) which shall be endowed with legal personality. 2. The financial contribution from the Community shall be paid to the structure created by the participating States for the implementation of the EDCTP Programme (hereafter referred to as “common structure”) which shall be endowed with legal personality. The model of governance incorporating the common structure is described in Annex 1a. Justification It is necessary to define more precisely how the structure will operate. To avoid disrupting the structure of the decision, these specifications should be set out in a new annex . Amendment 19 Article 2, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. The rules on intellectual property rights must ensure that the results of research obtained by the EDCTP’s activities provide the people of the developing countries with easy and affordable access to the new products. Justification To ensure this research programme’s success, the pharmaceutical industry must provide safeguards concerning the intellectual property rules, while the developing countries’ populations affected by the three diseases must have ease of access to the products at low prices. So the industry must be able to apply different prices, depending on whether the products are sold in the developing countries at rock-bottom prices or in western countries. Amendment 20 Article 2, paragraph 3 b (new) 3b. Strategic decision-making shall involve, through a process of active participation, parties from the developing countries and scientific experts from both North and South. The implementation of the programmes shall be done in cooperation with patients’ groups, NGOs and WHO. Justification Experts and the peoples directly concerned must be involved in devising and undertaking the activities provided for under the programme. Amendment 21 Article 2 a (new) Article 2a In the context of the activities under the EDCTP Programme referred to in the annex to this decision, the common structure must ensure a high level of involvement of developing countries at all stages. Based on their full participation in the decision-making procedures of the EDCTP, including setting and