the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on a framework for the promotion of employee financial participation ( COM(2002) 364 – 2002/2243(INI)) Draftsman: Ilda Figueiredo PROCEDURE The Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities appointed Ilda Figueiredo draftsperson at its meeting of 26 November 2002. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 19 February and 18 March 2003. At the latter meeting it adopted the following conclusions by 21 votes , with 1 abstention. The following were present for the vote Anna Karamanou (chairperson), Marianne Eriksson (vice-chairperson), Jillian Evans (vice-chairperson), Ilda Figueiredo (draftsperson), María Antonia Avilés Perea, Regina Bastos, Geneviève Fraisse, Fiorella Ghilardotti, Marie-Hélène Gillig (for Elena Ornella Paciotti), Karin Jöns (for Lissy Gröner), Hans Karlsson, Hedwig Keppelhoff-Wiechert (for Emilia Franziska Müller pursuant to Rule 153 (2)), Christa Klaß, Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, Astrid Lulling, Maria Martens, Christa Prets, Olle Schmidt (for Lone Dybkjær), Miet Smet, Patsy Sörensen, Joke Swiebel and Sabine Zissener. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities calls on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. Further studies are required of the way in which the various types of employee participation in businesses are implemented, including the gender issue. 2. Research into the how employee financial participation in companies contributes to creating jobs and especially for women. 3. The involvement of women in the various forms of participation and the promotion of a balanced representation of women and men in social partner organisations needs to be given special attention, particularly in company structures and workers’ organisations which opt for financial participation; 4. It is particularly important to promote the relevant trade union and management training in companies which implement employee financial participation, with attention being given to the theme of equality between women and men; 5. Studies are needed of the impact of participation systems on company performance, employment, quality of work, workers’ pay and workers’ rights, respect for labour legislation, equality, maternity, paternity, and social cohesion; 6. Clear principles need to be laid down for the various types of participation, specifically ensuring:-voluntary employee participation, without discrimination of any kind between employees; - simplicity, clarity and transparency; - guarantees and employee protection in case of insolvency; - respect for existing legislation and directives on employees’ rights and equal treatment and opportunities for women and men. 7. Guarantees must be established for employees financially participating in the companies they work for, so as to pre-empt problems which could arise in bankruptcy cases, and reduce stock market risks, clearly distinguishing between salaries and other remunerations on the one hand and income from financial participation systems on the other.