Joint answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-6957/08 , E-6958/08 , E-6959/08 (3 March 2009) As the Honourable Member is aware, the Commission and in particular EuropeAid and OLAF have informed the Members of Parliament in the Committee on Budgetary Control (Cocobu) of the modalities and the control mechanisms concerning the budgetary assistance given to the Palestinian Authority. This information and that of the OLAF investigation, which closed on 12 March 2005 has been provided on several occasions and more specifically during an in-camera meeting with Cocobu on 17 July 2007. The main conclusions of OLAF’s final case report were indeed that no conclusive evidence of support of armed attacks or unlawful activities financed by the Commission’s contributions to the budget was found. The Commission has also been informed by OLAF that the Office sent to Cocobu in February 2007 a summary of the final case report under strict confidentiality conditions in accordance with Annex I of the rules of the framework agreement between the Commission and Parliament. The Commission considers that Parliament has been fully informed and would also recall that an amendment tabled to the report on the MEDA programme (report of Mrs Kratsa) calling for the full version of the OLAF final case report to be provided to Parliament was rejected by the Committee on Budgetary Control. The Commission is not in a position to comment further on the issues raised by the Honourable Member in relation to the OLAF investigation given the need to respect both the legal framework for OLAF investigations, the rules on data protection as well as the specific context of this case. With regard to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) and the current relations between the Commission and the UNRWA, the Commission can provide the following additional information. With regard to UNRWA's financial control systems, it should be noted that, like all other UN Agencies, UNRWA applies the single audit principle, whereby audits are conducted by the UN Board of Auditors (UNBOA) in accordance with international standards. UNBOA is an outside independent organisation and carries out an audit of UNRWA every year, publishing it on their website biennially, in accordance with the UN two-year financial cycle. The last field visit was completed in spring 2008 The last UNBOA audit report on UNRWA (covering the period 2006-2007) can be found at: http://daccessdds.un.org/doc/UNDOC/GEN/N08/415/39/PDF/N0841539.pdf?OpenElement . The follow-up of each UNBOA recommendation is ensured by UNRWA's Audit and Inspection Committee with the support of the Department of Oversight Services, which also performs internal audits. Since 2007, the Members and Observers (including the EC) of UNRWA's Advisory Commission receive a detailed update on the progress towards implementing the UNBOA recommendations. Moreover, in January 2007, UNRWA launched an Organisational Development reform process which implements, among others, UNBOA's recommendations. Finally, in conformity with its financial regulations, the European Communities, including its Court of Auditors, may undertake, including on the spot, checks related to UNRWA's actions financed by EC funds.