the launching of an initiative, to allow for a simpler and less cumbersome procedure, it is appropriate to set a lower threshold. Amendment 45 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. In one third of Member States, signatories shall comprise at least the minimum number of citizens set out in Annex I. 2. In at least one fifth of Member States the minimum number of valid statements of support submitted to verification shall at least be equal to the number, multiplied by a factor of 750, of the Members of the European Parliament to be elected in that Member State at the time of the registration of citizens' initiative. The relevant minimum numbers are listed in Annex I. The Commission shall adopt, by means of delegated acts, in accordance with Article 16 and subject to the conditions of Articles 17 and 18, appropriate adjustments to Annex I when the composition of the European Parliament is modified. Justification In order to facilitate the launching of an initiative, to allow for a simpler and less cumbersome procedure, it is appropriate to set a lower threshold. Amendment 46 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Signatories shall be considered as coming from the Member State which issued the identification document indicated in their statement of support . 3. Signatories shall be considered as coming from the Member State where they have their permanent residence. For the purposes of paragraph 1, Union citizens who have permanent residence in a third country shall be considered to com e from the Member State of which they are nationals . Amendment 47 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 8 Decision on the admissibility of a proposed citizens’ initiative deleted 1. After having collected 300.000 statements of support in accordance with Article 5 from signatories coming from at least three Member States, the organiser shall submit to the Commission a request for a decision on the admissibility of the proposed citizens' initiative. For this purpose the organiser shall use the form set out in Annex V. 2. The Commission shall, within a period of two months from the receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 1, take a decision on admissibility. The proposed citizens' initiative shall be considered admissible if it satisfies the following conditions: a. it concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties; and b. it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission to make a proposal. 3. The decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall be notified to the organiser of the proposed citizens' initiative and shall be made public. Justification See the justifications for amendments to Article 4. Amendment 48 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. After having collected the necessary statements of support from signatories in accordance with Articles 5 and