shall be included in the verbatim report of proceedings. Any political group may give an explanation of vote lasting not more than two minutes. No further requests to give explanations of vote shall be accepted once the first explanation of vote has begun. Explanations of vote shall be admissible on the final vote on any subject submitted to Parliament. The term "final vote" does not prejudge the type of vote, but means the last vote on any item. 2. Explanations of vote shall not be admissible in the case of votes on procedural matters. 3. Where a Commission proposal or a report has been included on the agenda of Parliament pursuant to Rule 131, Members may submit written explanations of vote pursuant to paragraph 1. Explanations of vote given either orally or in writing must have a direct bearing on the text being put to the vote. Rule 164 Disputes on voting 1. The President shall declare votes open and closed. 2. Once the President has declared a vote open, no-one except the President shall be allowed to speak until the vote is declared closed. 3. Points of order concerning the validity of a vote may be raised after the President has declared it closed. 4. After the result of a vote by show of hands has been announced, a Member may request that this result be checked using the electronic voting system. 5. The President shall decide whether the result announced is valid. His decision shall be final. CHAPTER 6 INTERRUPTIVE AND PROCEDURAL MOTIONS Rule 165 Procedural motions 1. Requests to move a procedural motion, namely: (a) the inadmissibility of a matter (Rule 167); (b) referral back to committee (Rule 168); (c) the closure of a debate (Rule 169); (d) the adjournment of a debate and vote (Rule 170); (e) the suspension or closure of the sitting (Rule 171); shall take precedence over other requests to speak. Only the following shall be heard on these motions in addition to the mover: one speaker in favour and one against and the chairman or rapporteur of the committee responsible. 2. Speaking time shall not exceed one minute. Rule 166 Points of order 1. A Member may be allowed to speak to draw the attention of the President to any failure to respect Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Member shall first specify to which Rule he is referring. 2. A request to raise a point of order shall take precedence over all other requests to speak. 3. Speaking time shall not exceed one minute. 4. The President shall take an immediate decision on points of order in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and shall announce his ruling immediately after the point of order has been raised. No vote shall be taken on the President's decision. 5. Exceptionally, he may state that he will announce his ruling later, but not more than twenty-four hours after the point of order was raised. Postponement of the ruling shall not entail the adjournment of the debate. The President may refer the matter to the committee responsible. A