Poland Public hearings Mini-hearing on the Second Strategic Energy Review Committee on Industry, Research and Energy The Industry Committee will hold a public hearing on the Second Strategic Energy Review. MEPs will debate with experts how to develop a short-term strategy for improving energy efficiency. The hearing will also focus on the EU's future energy mix and structural changes necessary in the long term. The committee is currently working on the legislative proposals of the energy efficiency package, which were put forward by the Commission on 13 November, as well as on an own-initiative report on the Second Strategic Energy Review. 09:00 11:00 Brussels, JAN 4Q2 Programme 2008-12-12 Delegations UN Climate Change Conference in Poznan A delegation of 33 MEPs led by Guido SACCONI (PES, IT), Chairman of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, will be in Poznan for the the UN Climate Change Conference in Poznan between the 9th and 13th of December. The EP delegation, which will consist of members from the three committees most involved with parliamentary work on climate change -- the Environment, Industry and Climate Change Committees -- will organise two side events: one jointly organised with Council and Commission on the "Climate and Energy package" to explain the main political lines and the state of play and another event to present the political outline of the recommendations "2050: the future begins today" adopted recently by the Climate Change Committee. MEPs will also hold numerous high-level meetings with other delegations and civil society organisations, and liaise daily with the European Commission and Council. Parliament’s role in tackling climate change The European Parliament is co-legislator (with the Council) on issues such as the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, the proposal on renewable energies, the law on curbing car emissions, as well as projects on Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Negotiations on several legislative proposals are ongoing at the moment in the view to find a first reading agreement within this year. The EP delegation will also hold four press conferences -- three, jointly with the European Commission and the French Presidency, on Wednesday 10 December, Friday 12 December and on Saturday 13 December; the other on Friday 12 December. Commitments made under the Kyoto Protocol for reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions run to 2012. It is the EU's aim to ensure that the Poznan Conference will mark an important step in building a post-2012 framework on climate protection. The Conference, hosted by the Government of Poland, will bring together representatives of over 190 countries, along with observers from intergovernmental and nongovernmental organisations. 09:00 19:00 Poznan, Poland 2008-12-13 Delegations UN Climate Change Conference in Poznan A delegation of 33 MEPs led by Guido SACCONI (PES, IT), Chairman of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, will be in Poznan for the the UN Climate Change Conference in Poznan between the 9th and 13th of December. The EP delegation, which will consist of members from the three committees most involved with parliamentary work on climate change -- the Environment, Industry and Climate Change Committees -- will organise two side events: one