average of 0.22% of GNP, less than a third of the internationally agreed target; 13. Believes that the European Union should assume a lead function for the global re‑balancing of North-South interests in line with its overriding economic and political links with developing countries; 14. Is utterly disappointed that the FfD simply reiterates the fixed target - repeated for decades - of 0.7% of GNP as Official Development Aid, without any concrete commitment; 15. Believes that only a binding calendar to achieve the 0.7% target will ensure progress in substance; 16. Insists that the EU Development Ministers should at their next Council Meeting follow the example of Ireland and decide on a binding calendar for all EU Member States as well as for the EU budget with the aim of attaining the threshold of 0.7% of GNP by 2007; 17. Calls on the EU heads of state and government to present a unilateral commitment to the FfD in March to reaching the 0.7% of GNP goal in 2007, as well as to significant immediate increases in aid; 18. Welcomes the FfD's support for the untying of aid, and calls on the Council to initiate an EU regulation for the untying of EU and Member States' aid to LDCs following the OECD/DAC recommendations of May 2001; 19. Regrets that the issue of additionality of new sources of development financing has been discarded from the document and, in this context, notably the reference to global public goods (§ 37, deleted); 20. Calls on the EU to take a lead role for the further definition of the concept of global public goods as shared responsibility for protecting shared values and to present a public EU position at the latest by the Rio+10 Summit; 21. Welcomes the fact that the FfD recognises the value of exploring innovative sources of finance; considers, however, that this sole reference to the dynamic international debate on alternative sources for the financing of sustainable development, such as the taxation of currency transactions, remains utterly short of expectations (§38); 22. Takes note of the analysis requested by the Secretary-General, which parallels the mandate of the Ecofin Council to the Commission to seek out alternative sources for development financing, and expects the EU to present the conclusions of its analysis for the Monterrey Conference; 23. Regrets that the initiative for the UN Secretary-General to launch a global information Campaign for the Millennium Goals has been discarded from the final statement; External debt 24. Takes note that neither the EU nor the influential parties of the Monterrey Consensus are willing to acknowledge that the Heavily Indebted Poor Country (HIPC) Initiative is failing to meet its objective to achieve external debt sustainability; 25. Condemns the fact that there are no attempts from the creditor governments to revise the current criteria of HIPC; 26. In the context of HIPC, further regrets that the EU negotiators lend their support to watering down demands for debt sustainability analysis to take into account each country's capacity to raise the finance needed to achieve the Millennium development goals, as well