means that 2 250 000 extra lorry kilometres are being driven every week, with clear adverse environmental and safety implications, K. whereas, as they currently stand, neither national nor Community legislation can provide a satisfactory response to the difficulties connected with the presence of illegal immigrants close to the Channel Tunnel, and recognising that a sensible, practical and effective approach needs to be adopted by the British and French governments and coordinated with other Member States, 1. Draws attention to the critical and deteriorating situation around the Channel Tunnel, which requires urgent action by the authorities concerned to restore normal conditions as soon as possible; 2. Deplores the fact that the Commission, on the basis of Council Regulation (EC) No 2679/98 of 7 December 1998 on the functioning of the internal market in relation to the free movement of goods among the Member States OJ L 337, 12.12.1998, p. 8. (the 'Strawberry' regulation), can only intervene in a limited way when major obstructions to the free movement of goods occur; urges the Commission and the Member States to take all necessary and proportionate measures, without further delay, to ensure the free movement of goods through the Channel Tunnel between France and the UK; urges the Commission to draw up proposals to strengthen the rapid intervention mechanism provided for in the 'Strawberry' regulation ; 3. Acknowledges that, in order to provide a satisfactory long-term response to these difficulties, it is necessary to adopt a humane and practical approach in terms of asylum and immigration policy; 4. Considers that the long-term solution lies within European asylum and immigration systems, including responsibility-sharing; calls therefore for urgent action to ensure that asylum-seekers can be processed fairly and rapidly, while traffickers and illegal immigrants are effectively deterred; 5. Calls on the British and French governments to reach a solution dealing with the asylum claims at the Sangatte centre and to take a lead in developing further EU measures; 6. Calls upon the French authorities and SNCF, as a matter of urgency, to further upgrade security at Fréthun and other vulnerable points leading to the Channel Tunnel and to ensure that effective security measures are deployed at all times; 7. Urges the UK and French governments to provide immediate support and compensation for rail freight operators and other businesses which have been adversely affected by the restrictions on rail freight using the Channel Tunnel; 8. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the British and French governments.