Answer given by Mr Barroso on behalf of the Commission (2 February 2007) The Honourable Member refers to a press conference on 9 November 2006 called by the Member of the Commission responsible for Health and his spokesperson, with the participation of certain industry representatives on the personal invitation of the aforementioned Member of the Commission. The Commission's Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection (DG SANCO) employs a contractor to complement its information and communication activities where such activities cannot be provided directly by their services or the Commission's Directorate-General for Communication (DG COMM), due notably to scarce resources. DG SANCO has a framework contract with a public relations agency to provide it with media relations support, including the preparation of press packs, distribution of information to journalists and following-up with journalists who have received information from the Commission to offer them additional background information. This contract was awarded to an agency after a call for tender and a selection process, as is normal practice in the Commission. Given that there are limited opportunities for the Commission to provide further details of a press conference and background information to journalists, DG SANCO deemed that it would be helpful to journalists to use the contractor in this context. The cost of organising such conferences depends on the extent of services required and the number of journalists to be contacted. It should be noted that the press conference was on a specialist subject requiring background knowledge and information not readily available to generalist media, namely to draw the attention of the media to an innovative process initiated by the Commission, the Obesity Platform, which involves industry and to show that this process is producing results in terms of concrete voluntary commitments by industry which the Commission believes will help contribute to addressing obesity. The contractor assisted the Commission with devising user-friendly material about the Platform commitments on nutrition and health and in particular with providing a visual backdrop for the benefit of broadcasters conducting interviews. Regarding the calls made by DG SANCO’s contractor to journalists about the press conference, it should be noted that this is quite common practice in the field of media relations. Indeed, some journalists have been known to miss a press release or not be aware of an upcoming press conference which is in fact of interest to them. Whilst it is true that some media reacted critically to the involvement of the contractor, from the feedback that the Commission received, the added value provided by this was highly appreciated by the many broadcasters who conducted television (TV) interviews after the press conference.