a resolution with other motions for resolutions or reports. It may adopt an opinion, which may take the form of a letter. It may decide to draw up a report pursuant to Rule 45. 3. The authors of a motion for a resolution shall be informed of the decisions of the committee and the Conference of Presidents. 4. The report shall contain the text of the motion for a resolution. 5. Opinions in the form of a letter addressed to other institutions of the European Union shall be forwarded by the President. 6. The author or authors of a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to Rule 103(2), 108(5) or 115(2) shall be entitled to withdraw it before the final vote. 7. A motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to paragraph 1 may be withdrawn by its author, authors or first signatory before the committee responsible has decided, pursuant to paragraph 2, to draw up a report on it. Once the motion has been thus taken over by the committee, only the committee shall be empowered to withdraw it up until the opening of the final vote. 8. A motion for a resolution withdrawn may be taken over and retabled immediately by a group, a committee or the same number of Members who are entitled to table it. Committees have a duty to ensure that motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to this Rule which meet the requirements laid down are followed up and duly referred to in documents produced as a result. Rule 114 Recommendations to the Council 1. A political group or at least forty Members may table a proposal for a recommendation to the Council concerning subjects under Titles V and VI of the EU Treaty, or where Parliament has not been consulted on an international agreement within the scope of Rule 83 or 84. 2. Such proposals shall be referred to the committee responsible for consideration. Where appropriate, the committee shall refer the matter to Parliament in accordance with the procedures laid down in these Rules. 3. Where it presents a report, the committee responsible shall submit to Parliament a proposal for a recommendation to the Council, together with a brief explanatory statement and, where appropriate, the opinions of the committees consulted. No prior authorisation from the Conference of Presidents is required for the application of this paragraph. 4. The provisions of Rule 90 or Rule 94 shall apply. Rule 115 Debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law 1. A committee, an interparliamentary delegation, a political group or at least forty Members may ask the President in writing for a debate to be held on an urgent case of a breach of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (Rule 130(3)). 2. The Conference of Presidents shall draw up a list of subjects to be included on the final draft agenda for the next debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law on the basis of the requests referred to in paragraph 1 and in