incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution concerning the Irish application: 1. Welcomes the detailed and target package of personalized services aimed at re-integrating the workers into the labour market in an area particularly vulnerable to an economic downturn. 2. Welcomes that the time of unemployment will be used by the Irish authorities for a broad upgrading of skills levels, not only with regard to vocational training but also for an improvement of the employability for those workers with higher education; underlines that this approach is in line with purpose of the fund to provide specific, one-off support to facilitate the re-integration into employment of workers in areas, sectors, territories, or labour market regions suffering the shock of serious economic disruption. 3. Regrets, however, the long period of time between reception of the last additional information to the application dating 3 November 2009, and the final decision of the Commission on 6 May 2010. 4. Welcomes the new and concise presentation of the application in form of a table; regrets, however, that, despite the fact that the Commission announced greater flexibility concerning the presentation of the applications under the new format, there is a continuing lack of important information on the backdrop of the application which would be relevant for a complete evaluation of the case: for example, information about the fate of the enterprise is missing from the COM-document as well as the relation to possible funding through the ESF, for example for the Interagency Forum set up by the Waterford City Council. 5. Reminds Directive 89/95 laying down, among others, the obligations of employers in cases of collective redundancies that has to applied in all Member States; supports the Commission with regard to its efforts to gain a better overview of the implementation of the directive in the Member States. 6. Supports those measures aiming at support of entrepreneurship but reminds the Member States that these measures need a sorrow individual follow-up to ensure the success of the newly created enterprise beyond the period of financial support through the EGF. 7. Regrets that workers made redundant after the bankruptcy of Waterford Crystal in other Member States will not have the chance to profit from the opportunities offered by the EGF as their governments did not apply for support; reminds therefore the Member States to use the EGF as a valuable tool in times of crisis for the training and up-skilling of their workforce to fight unemployment and to exit the crisis as quickly as possible. 8. Welcomes also the new paragraph concerning Article 7 of the EGF regulation but reiterates its call upon the European Commission to include in their annual report not only detailed information about the compliance of Member States with anti-discrimination and equality between women and men principles at all stage of the implementation of the measures but also an analysis of which measures promoted especially the equality of men and women with regard to the integration in the labour market 9. Notes the new chapter on "Alternative sources of payment appropriations" but underlines