Budgetary Control MEPs postpone approving Council spending Budgetary control 2009-03-16 - 20:27 MEPs voted Monday to postpone approving the EU Council of Ministers' spending for 2007. The Budgetary Control Committee said Council's administrative spending had in fact become increasingly operational, and that Parliament should therefore have scrutiny over the Council budget. Yet the Council has consistently refused to give the committee the facts. Rapporteur Søren SØNDERGAARD (EUL/NGL, DK) explained that the vote to postpone "granting discharge" was to show that MEPs took this issue very seriously but also to give Council the opportunity to deliver the information requested before the April plenary session, when the full House will vote on budget discharges for the EU institutions and agencies. Bulk of EU budget spending approved The Budgetary Control Committee also decided to postpone granting discharge to the Police College, and for similar reasons: a lack of information. All other institutions and agencies got their approval, however, including the Commission, which, with the Member States, is responsible for spending the bulk of the EU budget on various policies. No DAS: Member States should check better In a resolution drafted by Jean-Pierre Audy (EPP-ED, FR) the committee did voice grave concern that the European Court of Auditors had not been able to issue a "Declaration of Assurance" for the 14th consecutive year, although there were clear improvements in some areas. MEPs urged Member States to co-operate better in checking on EU spending and recovering incorrectly spent funds. To this end, it has repeatedly advocated that Member States sign off such expenditure themselves. Council operations Citing its 2002 discharge resolution, which referred to the Council's "increasingly operational nature of expenditure, financed under the Council's administrative budget, in the fields of foreign affairs, security and defence policy, and justice and home affairs" and referring to the creation of a financial mechanism called Athena to administer the financing of "operations having military and defence implications", the Budgetary Control Committee said that the "administrative expenditure of the Council ought to be scrutinized in the same way as that of the other European institutions as part of the discharge procedure". MEPs therefore regretted that the Council, "unlike other institutions", does not submit an annual activity report to Parliament. The resolution, which was adopted by 27 votes in favour and 2 against with no abstentions, goes on to list Parliament's attempts to elicit information from the Council on its budget execution and a number of specific questions about the Council budget. General EU budget Noting once again that "some 80% of EU expenditure is administered by the Member States" and that the European Court of Auditors (ECA) has not been able to approve the expenditure for the 14th time in a row, MEPs stressed that the annual summaries of audits, which Member States have to provide as from 2008, are a first step but that what is really needed are national management declarations. MEPs noted that according to the ECA a large number of errors as well as less than effective monitoring and control systems were caused by "complicated or unclear