India, the world's largest democracy and its second most populous country, go back to the early 1960s when India was amongst the first countries to set up diplomatic relations with what was then the EEC, subsequently signing a number of bilateral agreements with the EU, including, in 1993, a Co-operation agreement essentially, although not exclusively, covering trade and economic co-operation. The institutional basis for EU-India political relations is the Joint Political Statement signed at the same time as the above Co-operation agreement, and resulting in numerous meetings at ministerial and senior official level. In 1996, the Commission published a Communication on an Enhanced Partnership COM(1996)275 and the First Summit between the EU and India took place on 28 June 2000 in Lisbon. For the EU, this represented an acknowledgement that India is a significant political and economic player on the world stage, even if it is still struggling with huge social, economic and environmental problems. The resulting Joint Summit Declaration foresaw an enhanced political dialogue taking place as part of regular high-level meetings. The EU has continued to stress the importance of further deepening dialogue at all levels and the inauguration of the India-EU Round Table is a further example of this will. A second EU-India Summit was held in New Delhi in November 2001, consolidating the strategic EU-India partnership further and adopting a new 'Agenda for Action' with concrete objectives to be implemented in time for the Third Summit due in Copenhagen in the second half of 2002. Links between the EU and India continue to be strong, particularly in development and economic co-operation and the EU is set to become India's most important partner in the New Economy, including in information technology and bio-technology. Against this background, the signing of the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Co-operation during the New Delhi Summit constitutes a significant landmark. As Commissioner Patten pointed out in a speech in New Delhi in January 2001, the (forthcoming) Agreement "[would] not only provide the framework for joint research and technological development, but [would] also address the challenges of disease, hunger and poverty ". The Agreement, which is "tacitly renewable"for five year periods, "is based on the principles of mutual benefit, reciprocal opportunities for access to each other's [relevant to the Agreement] programmes and activities Explanatory Memorandum, COM(2001)448 , 30.7.2001, p. 2 ". It will involve the participation of individuals and institutions (e.g. universities) from both continents in each other's research projects, a pooling of certain R&D projects, the exchange and sharing of equipment, materials, information and data, as well as visits and exchanges of scientists, engineers and other appropriate personnel for the purpose of participating in meetings and other research activities. India has a number of emerging economic sectors and, as such, would benefit from this Agreement at the level of a partnership as there are no direct financial implications for the EU. However, as a developing country, it would still have the right to participate in EU activities in the field of research connected with development. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common