following financial year as revenue in the case of a surplus or as a payment appropriation in the case of a deficit. 2. The estimates of such revenue or payment appropriations shall be entered in the budget during the budgetary procedure and in a letter of amendment presented pursuant to Article 34. They shall be drawn up in accordance with the Council Regulation implementing the Decision on the system of the Communities' own resources. 3. After the presentation of the accounts for each financial year, any discrepancy with the estimates shall be entered in the budget for the following financial year through an amending budget devoted solely to that discrepancy. In such a case, the preliminary draft amending budget must be submitted by the Commission within 15 days following the submission of the provisional accounts. CHAPTER 4 Principle of unit of account Article 16 The budget shall be drawn up and implemented in euro and the accounts shall be presented in euro. However, for the cash-flow purposes referred to in Article 61, the accounting officer and, in the case of imprest accounts, imprest administrators shall be authorised to carry out operations in national currencies as laid down in the Regulation laying down the rules for implementing this Regulation, hereinafter referred to as "the implementing rules". CHAPTER 5 Principle of universality Article 17 Total revenue shall cover total payment appropriations, subject to Article 18. All revenue and expenditure shall be entered in full without any adjustment against each other, subject to Article 20. Article 18 1. The following items of revenue shall be used to finance specific items of expenditure: a) financial contributions from Member States to certain research programmes pursuant to the Council Regulation implementing the Decision on the system of the Communities' own resources; b) interest on deposits and the fines provided for in the Regulation on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure; c) revenue earmarked for a specific purpose, such as income from foundations, subsidies, gifts and bequests, including the earmarked revenue specific to each institution; d) contributions to Community activities from third countries or various bodies; e) revenue from third parties in respect of goods, services or work supplied at their request; f) revenue arising from the repayment of amounts wrongly paid; g) proceeds from the supply of goods, services and works for other institutions or bodies, including refunds by other institutions or bodies of mission allowances paid on their behalf; h) insurance payments received; i) revenue from payments connected with lettings; j) revenue from the sale of publications and films, including those on an electronic medium. 2. The basic act applicable may also assign the revenue for which it provides to specific items of expenditure. 3. The budget shall carry lines to accommodate the categories of assigned revenue referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and wherever possible shall indicate the amount. Article 19 1. The Commission may accept any donation made to the Communities, such as foundations, subsidies, gifts and bequests. 2. Acceptance of donations which may involve some financial charge shall