only be implemented after being given all the guarantees of due process, including the right to present a defence and appeal in independent courts of justice, J. whereas Articles 57 and 58 of Venezuela's Constitution guarantee freedom of expression, communication and information, K. whereas President Chavez recently declared that the use of social networking sites as Twitter and internet, and text messaging via mobile phones to criticise or oppose his regime “is terrorism”, H. whereas the reform of the law on science and technology currently debated by the National Assembly of Venezuela aims to regulate “information network” in a manner that could lead to internet censorship, I. whereas some leaders close to President Chávez such as the Vice-President and Defence Minister, Ramon Carrizález, the Minister of Environment, Mrs Yubiri Grouse and the President of the Central Bank, Mr. Eugenio Vázquez Orellana have resigned due to the totalitarian drift of the regime, 1. Deplores the decision of the Government of Venezuela to suspends the licenses of RCTV and other 3 cable television channels and calls on their restitution; 2. Reminds the Government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela of its obligation to respect freedom of expression and opinion and freedom of the press, as it is bound to do under its own Constitution and under the different, international and regional Conventions and Charters, to which Venezuela is a signatory; 3. Calls on the Government of Venezuela, in the name of the principle of the impartiality of the state, to ensure equal treatment under the law for all media, including internet , whether privately or publicly owned and irrespective of all political or ideological considerations; 4. Calls on the Venezuelan government to be committed to the values of the rule of law, and to promote, protect and respect the right to freedom of expression including on internet and freedom of assembly; 5. Deeply regrets the latest violence's acts, including the death of two students, Yosinio Carrillo Torres and Marcos Rosales, and expresses its solidarity with the families of the victims; calls on the authorities to carry out an investigation to clarify the causes for which these young people were assassinated and to bring those guilty of these crimes before the justice; 6. Calls on the Venezuelan authorities to unequivocally condemn these serious abuses immediately and ensure that the police intervenes only to protect the integrity and life of all persons while exercising their legitimate right to assembly; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the Secretary General of the Organisation of American States (OEA), the EUROLAT Parliamentary Assembly, the Mercosur Parliament and the Government of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.