has received a request for urgent debate he shall announce this to Parliament. The vote on the request shall be taken at the beginning of the sitting following that during which the announcement was made, provided that the proposal to which the request relates has been distributed in the official languages. Where there are several requests for urgent debate on the same subject, the approval or rejection of the request for urgent debate shall apply to all the requests on the same subject. 3. Before the vote, only the mover, one speaker in favour, one speaker against, and the chairman and/or rapporteur of the committee responsible may be heard, in each case for not more than three minutes. 4. Questions to be dealt with by urgent procedure shall be given priority over other items on the agenda. The President shall determine the time of the debate and vote. 5. An urgent debate may be held without a report or, exceptionally, on the basis of an oral report by the committee responsible. Rule 135 Joint debate A decision may be taken at any time to debate similar or factually related items of business jointly. Rule 136 Time limits Except in the cases of urgency referred to in Rules 115 and 134, a debate and vote shall not be opened on a text unless it was distributed at least twenty-four hours previously. CHAPTER 3 GENERAL RULES FOR THE CONDUCT OF SITTINGS Rule 137 Access to the Chamber 1. No person may enter the Chamber except Members of Parliament, Members of the Commission or Council, the Secretary-General of Parliament, members of staff whose duties require their presence there, and experts or officials of the European Union. 2. Only holders of an admission card duly issued by the President or Secretary-General of Parliament shall be admitted to the galleries. 3. Members of the public admitted to the galleries shall remain seated and keep silent. Any person expressing approval or disapproval shall immediately be ejected by the ushers. Rule 138 Languages 1. All documents of Parliament shall be drawn up in the official languages. 2. All Members shall have the right to speak in Parliament in the official language of their choice. Speeches delivered in one of the official languages shall be simultaneously interpreted into the other official languages and into any other language the Bureau may consider necessary. 3. Interpretation shall be provided in committee and delegation meetings from and into the official languages used and requested by the members and substitutes of that committee or delegation. 4. At committee and delegation meetings away from the usual places of work interpretation shall be provided from and into the languages of those members who have confirmed that they will attend the meeting. These arrangements may exceptionally be made more flexible where the members of the committee or delegation so agree. In the event of disagreement, the Bureau shall decide. Where it has been established after the result of a vote has been announced that there are discrepancies between different language versions, the President shall decide whether the