group dedicated to human rights monitoring; 9. Calls on the UN Security Council, as a matter of urgency, to take all possible measures with a view to genuinely preventing any further attacks on the civilian population of the eastern provinces of the DRC and provide medical, humanitarian and other assistance to victims; 10. Stresses the need to tackle corruption and underlines MONUSCO's crucial role in doing this through joint planning and implementation of operations and proper accountability mechanisms for abuses; 11. Stresses that a key humanitarian priority in the DRC would be the creation of a true national army; reiterates that training and payment of decent salaries are required in order to reform the Congolese army and improve discipline; 12. Calls for a return to the dialogue which saw the creation of the Amani Programme for security, pacification, stabilisation and reconstruction of North and South Kivu; 13. Welcomes the New Independent National Electoral Commission launched on 30 July to prepare for 2011 general elections and the adoption of the 2011-2013 electoral road map; calls on the Council and the Commission to do all they can to support the electoral process, providing support to tackle governance problems, lack of transparency and violations of civil and political rights in cooperation with the Congolese authorities; 14. Calls for the DRC Parliament to create the National Human Rights Commission as outlined in the constitution, as a previous step to passing a law on the protection of victims and witnesses of human rights abuses, human rights activist and aid workers and journalist; 15. Calls for the countries of the Great Lakes region to maintain a high level of commitment to jointly promote peace and stability in the region through existing regional mechanism and to intensify their efforts on regional economic development, paying special attention to reconciliation, human security, better judicial accountability, refugee and IDP return and integration; 16. Calls on the European Union and the Members States to extend in time the EUSEC RD mission activities and to continue its support of EUPOL RD Congo in order to assist the DRC authorities with police reform; Calls to fully implement gender mainstreaming in the Common Security and Defense operations; in this regard, request a strong gender perspective in civilian and military missions in order to increase its operational effectiveness, as the EU can bring considerable ‘added value’ as a key actor in responding to women in armed conflict as well as in conflict prevention; 17. Welcomes the role of the EU crisis management in the framework of implementation of UNSC resolutions 1325 and 1820 within the Common Security and Defence Policy by putting specialised gender advisors or focal points in each crisis management mission all over the world; 18. Welcomes the EU Council Plan of Action on gender equality in development cooperation that will ensure that gender equality is mainstreamed throughout the EU’s work with partner countries at all levels; calls in this sense for a strong communication strategy; 19. Deplores the increasing acts of violence against aid workers and pays tribute to the extremely difficult work achieved