Question for written answer E-000515/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Corien Wortmann-Kool (PPE) (25 January 2012) Subject: Impact of a financial transaction tax On Wednesday 14 December, a European Commission official said at a meeting in The Hague that the introduction of a financial transaction tax will, in the long term, have an impact of approximately 0 % on the gross national product of the countries in the European Union Het Financieel Dagblad , 14 December 2011, ‘Impact of transaction tax on the economy amounts to zero’. . This contrasts with the impact assessment by the Commission of 28 September SEC(2011)1103. , which assumes a decrease in economic production in the Union in the long term of between 0.53 % and 1.76 %, and the evaluation report from the Central Planning Office (CPB) CPB Memorandum, 21 December 2011, ‘An evaluation of the financial transaction tax’. , which puts the long-term decrease at between 0.4 % and 1.2 %. 1. Is the Commission aware of the statements made by this official? Is the Commission aware of the CPB’s evaluation? 2. Can the Commission provide clarification as to the large differences in numerical value between the figures of the CPB and the impact assessment of the European Commission, on the one hand, and the recent statements made by the Commission official, on the other hand? 3. Can the Commission confirm that its own impact assessment will be adjusted, as indicated at the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament on 9 January 2012? If so, what is the main reason for this and when will the new impact assessment be published? In the evaluation of the financial transaction tax, the CPB concludes that it is unlikely that the introduction of a tax on financial transactions will reduce the risks to the financial system and thus contribute to creating a more stable financial sector. 4. Does the Commission agree with the CPB’s conclusion that a financial transaction tax will contribute nothing to creating a more stable financial sector? If not, why not? What is, according to the Commission, the main purpose of the financial transaction tax?