Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (15 April 2009) The Commission is aware that there is an ongoing discussion on the use of phthalate plasticisers. After examination of the Federal Office for the Environment (FOE) discussion paper, the Commission has come to the following opinion: In its paper, the FOE correctly describes the conclusions of the EU risk assessments on the phthalates DINP, DIDP, DBP, BBP and DEHP. Going further than the conclusions of the EU Risk Reduction Strategies developed in accordance with Council Regulation (EEC) No 793/93 OJ L 224, 3.9.1993 . on the Evaluation and Control of Existing Substances, the FOE recommends replacing soft PVC with plasticiser free plastics or other materials, as it argues that all plasticisers will eventually migrate from PVC and be dispersed into the environment. The Commission has not been informed by FOE of its investigations which led FOE to issue the recommendation concerned. It can therefore not comment on the means by which the FOE came to its conclusions. The Commission continues to consider the conclusions of the Community risk assessments as being the most accurate and most widely accepted, due to the extensive peer-review conducted when they were drawn up. The Commission does not endorse the FOE recommendation, as it is not in line with the agreed Risk Reduction Strategies developed in accordance with Council Regulation (EEC) No 793/93. Moreover, a life-cycle study conducted on behalf of the Commission Life Cycle Assessment of PVC and of principal competing materials, PE Europe GmbH, July 2004 (http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/chemicals/sustdev/pvc-final_report_lca.pdf). has come to the conclusion that, taking the overall environmental impact during their life-cycle into account, PVC products are not necessarily less favourable than products made from other materials. The Commission is aware that several alternative substances have not yet been as intensively tested as the phthalates, but would like to draw attention to the fact that under Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) OJ L 36, 5.2.2009 . , the principle ‘no data, no market’ applies. Consequently, alternative plasticisers manufactured or imported in the EU in more than one tonne per year per company will have to be registered as any other substance falling under the scope of REACH. This means that, in accordance with provisions in Title II of REACH, a registrant will have to gather information on the environmental and health properties of their substances, assess the risks arising from the uses of their substances and ensure that these risks can be properly managed. In parallel, REACH foresees that the European Union can take additional measures on dangerous substances, where there is a need for complementing action at EU level. In particular, where action on a Community-wide basis is considered necessary beyond any measure already in place to address an unacceptable risk to human health or the environment arising from the manufacture, use or placing on the market of substances, a Member state or the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) upon request of