laid down in Article 19(2). 5. Within the 12 months following the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall undertake in conjunction with the European Data Protection Supervisor an evaluation enabling it to adopt technical specifications for the implementation of paragraph 4, in accordance with the regulatory procedure laid down in Article 19(2). That evaluation shall be forwarded to the European Parliament, together with the proposals. Amendment 41 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The signatories of a citizens' initiative shall come from at least one third of Member States. 1. The signatories of a citizens' initiative shall come from at least one fifth of Member States. Amendment 42 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. In one third of Member States, signatories shall comprise at least the minimum number of citizens set out in Annex I. 2. In one fifth of Member States, signatories shall comprise at least the minimum number of citizens set out in Annex I. Amendment 43 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Signatories shall be considered as coming from the Member State which issued the identification document indicated in their statement of support . 3. Signatories shall be considered as coming from the Member State where they have their permanent residence . A signatory who is not a national of the Member State in which he or she permanently resides may choose to be considered as coming either from the Member State in which he or she permanently resides or from the Member State of which he or she is a national. A signatory permanently resident in a third country shall be considered as coming from the Member State of which he or she is a national. Amendment 44 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 8 deleted Decision on the admissibility of a proposed citizens’ initiative 1. After having collected 300.000 statements of support in accordance with Article 5 from signatories coming from at least three Member States, the organiser shall submit to the Commission a request for a decision on the admissibility of the proposed citizens' initiative. For this purpose the organiser shall use the form set out in Annex V. 2. The Commission shall, within a period of two months from the receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 1, take a decision on admissibility. The proposed citizens' initiative shall be considered admissible if it satisfies the following conditions: a. it concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties; and b. it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission to make a proposal. 3. The decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall be notified to the organiser of the proposed citizens' initiative and shall be made public. Justification It is intended to reduce registration and admissibility in one step. Therefore Article