Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (15 March 2011) The issue raised by the Honourable Member refers to the sound implementation of the Waste Framework Directive Directive 2008/98/EC OJ L 312, 22.11.2008. (WFD) in the region of Attica, notably the implementation of the principle of self-sufficiency and the existence of sound waste management plans. According to the WFD, Member States shall ensure the existence of an integrated and adequate network of waste disposal installations and of national and regional plans that support the implementation of the objectives and provisions of the WFD. The Commission is currently assessing the soundness of a number of waste management plans drawn up by some Member States. However, the Greek case requires especial attention by the Commission due to the existence of a Court judgment (Case C‑502/03) condemning Greece for the lack of appropriate environmental infrastructure for waste management and the existence of uncontrolled and illegal waste disposal. Subsequent to this judgment, the Greek authorities revised their national waste management plan and approved regional waste management plans which provided for the closure of the illegal dumps by the end of 2008. These had to be replaced by appropriate waste management installations, mainly landfills co-financed by EU funds. As the situation in Greece was not entirely satisfactory to the Commission, in April 2009 and October 2010 the Commission addressed to the Greek authorites Letters of Formal Notice under Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. According to their letter of reply an action plan has been put into place in order to fully comply with the judgment by June 2011. The Commission continues to closely monitor the situation in Greece to ensure that the Court judgment is fully complied with. Should this not be the case, the Commission will not hesitate to bring the case back to the Court and ask for financial sanctions to be imposed. In the interim, the Commission would like to inform the Honourable Member that the Greek competent authorites must ensure that once the existing landfill in Attica is closed down construction and demolition waste is duly disposed of following relevant EU legislation. Should this not be the case, the Commission would not hesitate to take the necessary additional measures to redress the situation accordingly. The experience and performance of Member States in implementing waste management plans is highly varied, providing great potential for mutual learning. The Honourable Member's attention is drawn to the progress report on the Thematic Strategy on the Prevention and Recycling of Waste http://ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/pdf/Progess%20report.pdf& http://ec.europa.eu/environment/waste/pdf/Commission%20Working%20Doc.pdf published by the Commission earlier in 2011, which provides a comprehensive overview of the rapid progress of some Member States, and the remaining challenges.