police investigations; 10. Urges the Council and Commission to establish a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women, including trafficking; 11. Calls on the Commission to start work on drafting a proposal for a comprehensive directive on action to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women; 12. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to act to tackle the causes of violence against women, not least by employing preventive measures and undertaking awareness campaigns on the different forms that such violence can take; 13. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to embark on concerted action, including public awareness and information campaigns, on domestic violence, as well as strategies aimed at changing the social stereotyping of women through education and the media, and to encourage the exchange of good practice; 14. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to address violence against women and the gender-related dimension of human rights violations internationally, in particular in the context of the bilateral association and international trade agreements in force and those under negotiation; 15. Deplores, in this context, the lack of a meaningful gender dimension in the compulsory sustainability impact assessments which are carried out prior to the conclusion of such agreements, let alone any acknowledgement of the issue of sexual violence, and of a set of tools to analyse gender impact, and calls on the Commission to come forward as soon as possible with a proposal to solve this problem; 16. Calls on the Member States to have due regard for the specific circumstances of certain categories of women who are particularly vulnerable to violence, such as women belonging to minorities, female immigrants, female refugees, women living in poverty in rural or isolated communities, women in prison or other institutions, girls, homosexual women, women with disabilities, and older women; 17. Urges the Member States to step up measures to prevent gender-based violence among young people by providing for targeted education campaigns and better cooperation among stakeholders and the various circles affected by the phenomenon, such as families, schools, the public space, and the media; 18. Calls on the Commission also to address the international dimension of violence against women in the context of its work on corporate social responsibility, in particular in relation to European undertakings working in export-processing zones; 19. Stresses the importance of proper training for those working with female victims of male violence, including representatives of the justice system and law enforcement, with particular reference to the police, the courts, social, medical and legal services, labour market agencies, employers and trade unions; 20. Calls for the creation of mechanisms to facilitate access for women who are victims of gender violence or trafficking networks to free legal aid enabling them to assert their rights throughout the Union; insists on the need to improve cooperation among legal professionals and the exchange of best practices in the fight against discrimination and gender violence, and to find ways of eliminating obstacles to the recognition of legal acts in other Member States, including sentences for gender-violence