9999/C Q999 E/004 WRITTEN QUESTION P-0957/04 by Ilda Figueiredo (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (18 March 2004) Subject: The stated intention of deactivating Sorefame-Bombardier Following my question of 28 November 2003 ( E-3672/03 OJ C ), my worst expectations appear to have been fulfilled, with the announcement from Bombardier that it intends to shut down completely or drastically reduce some of its plants in Europe, and specifically Sorefame-Bombardier, in Amadora, Portugal. As I stated before, this is a high-quality, high-capacity and high-tech company manufacturing and assembling rolling stock, and currently employs some 550 workers, and provides employment for a further thousand workers in subcontracted companies. The situation is all the stranger, given that in Portugal, there are some projects which, if they were implemented, could resolve the problem, namely the Lisbon and Porto metro strategic expansion plans, and the Porto suburban trains, amongst other large-scale projects, some of them supported with Community funding. Given what has happened in other EU Member States: 1. What measures does the Commission intend to take, in terms of support mechanisms for companies, public investment, public competitions, inter alia, to guarantee Sorefame-Bombardier employment and high-quality production, and thus help to prevent the worsening of the economic recession in Portugal? 2. Does the Commission intend to adopt measures to stimulate Portuguese contracts with Sorefame-Bombardier, to prevent the stopping of assembly lines in the near future, and consequent impact on jobs, given that Portugal currently suffers from the highest unemployment growth figures in the EU? 3. Does the Commission not believe that what is happening with Sorefame-Bombardier in Portugal, amongst many other examples, makes it clear that there has to be public intervention in companies of fundamental strategic importance, i.e. multinationals, in order to guarantee employment, production and development?