Briefing - 17-20 November 2008 - Strasbourg plenary session 2008-11-13 - 10:47 Financial crisis, Commission work programme 2009, outcome of Washington DC G-20 summit MEPs to debate the situation in DR Congo CAP health check finding the right balance A European Blue Card for highly skilled workers UK Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks to address MEPs EU Court of Auditors report for 2007 Bees and bee-keepers face emergency More fruit and veg for children at school Challenges ahead after 10 years of Economic and Monetary Union Financial crisis G-20 DC summit, Commission work and legislative programme for 2009 On 18 November at 3pm, MEPs will debate the financial crisis, the outcome of the European Council and G-20 summit in Washington DC and the Commission's legislative and working plan for 2009. At the beginning of the debate, group leaders will make statements on the financial crisis. On 15 November in Washington DC, the G-20 will hold a key summit on resolving the financial crisis and modernising the world's financial institutions. MEPs will vote on a resolution on the Commission work programme. British and Commonwealth Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks to address MEPs Sir Jonathan Sacks , Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the British Commonwealth, will address a formal sitting of the House on Wednesday 19 November as part of the series of speeches by eminent guests in the context of European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. Born in London in 1948, Sir Jonathan Sacks has been Chief Rabbi of the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth since 1 September 1991. MEPs to debate the situation in DR Congo On Wednesday morning, 19 November, the House will debate the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo after hearing statements from Council and Commission. The House will also vote on a resolution on this topic. The Head of UN peacekeeping has recently asked the UN Security Council for more than 3 000 extra troops to protect civilians in the eastern DR Congo. EU Court of Auditors 2007 annual report to be presented to plenary The President of the European Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA will present its report on how EU funds were spent in 2007 on Thursday 20 November. Although the accounts themselves have been approved without qualification, the same cannot be said of the "transactions underlying the accounts". The Court said that for the 14th year in a row it was not able to issue a "statement of assurance" that the EU money had been spent well and according to the rules in all policy areas. Regulation on investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) The Committee on Budgetary Control is tabling a report introducing 92 amendments to a Commission proposal, which proposes changes to regulation on investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). To strengthen the efficiency of the European Anti-Fraud Office and to clarify the legal framework of its mission, the report, drafted by Ingeborg GRÄßLE (EPP-ED, DE), asks the Commission to progress without any further delays on a consolidation of the legal texts on Community