Budget (PDB) in this last year of implementation of FP 6. The overall cuts intended by Council in its Draft Budget concerned especially the Payments, which amounted to 40 to 45 per cent of all the relevant lines. These cuts were not justified as implementation rates for FP 6 had reached constantly 98 per cent in the past years. out of the proposals received, only 1 out of 5 has been able to be supported. In particular, just under 50% of projects considered to be of a very high standard were able to be financed -resolution on Policy Challenges and Budgetary Means of the enlarged Union 2007-2013 ( 2004/2209(INI) ), P6_TA(2005)0224 , paragraph 35. 2. Legal Constraints Based on Article 7 of the Euratom Treaty, the multi-annual Framework Programmes have to serve the objective of fostering research and dissemination of technical information. Contrary to the European Community FP, it may not be drawn up for more than five years. 3. The amendments The appropriations indicated in the proposal for a decision are purely for guidance until an agreement is reached on the financial perspective for the period of 2007-2013. Regarding this particular point, three amendments are proposed to the draft legislative resolution and to article 3. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Draft legislative resolution Amendment 1 Paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. Specifies that the appropriations indicated in the proposal for a decision are purely for guidance until agreement is reached on the financial perspective for the period 2007 and the following years; Justification Standard amendment in order to emphasize that the amounts proposed are subject to confirmation by a possible multiannual financial framework. Amendment 2 Paragraph 1 b (new) 1b. Calls on the Commission to confirm, once the next financial perspective has been adopted, the amounts indicated in the proposal for a regulation or, should the case arise, to submit the adjusted amounts for approval by the Parliament and the Council, thereby ensuring their compatibility with the ceilings; Justification Standard amendment in order to emphasize that the amounts proposed are subject to confirmation by a possible multiannual financial framework Proposal for a decision Text proposed by the Commission Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 3 Article 3, paragraph 1 introductory part The overall amount for the implementation of the seventh framework programme for the period 2007 to 2011 shall be EUR 3092 million. That amount shall be distributed as follows (in EUR million): The indicative overall amount for implementation of the seventh framework programme shall be EUR 3092 million for the period of 5 years as from 1 January 2007. That amount shall be distributed as follows (in EUR million): Justification Standard amendment in order to emphasize that the amounts proposed are subject to confirmation by a possible multiannual financial framework . Amendment 4 Article 3, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Commission shall provide prior information to the budgetary authority whenever it intends to depart from the