country and some have chosen other professions in a quest for safety, 1. Strongly condemns the execution of Ms. Ateqeh Rajabi, the condemnation to death by stoning of Ms. Zhila Izadi and all the other condemnations to death and executions of child offenders in Iran; 2. Urges the Iranian authorities to respect the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which provide that capital punishment shall not be imposed for offences committed by persons under 18 year of age at the time of committing the offence; 3. Notes that the Special Rapporteur on the right to freedom of opinion and expression, the Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, and the Special Rapporteur on torture of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights have stated that the proceedings in the case against the Iranian intelligence officer, who was acquitted on 24 July 2004, accused of the alleged killing of Ms. Kazemi did not meet international standards of a fair trial because key evidence was ignored by the court; 4. Calls on the Supreme Court to take note of the statement of the Special Rapporteur on the right to freedom of opinion and expression, the Special Rapporteur on the independence of judges and lawyers, and the Special Rapporteur on torture of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights and ensure an open and fair trial; 5. Condemns the arrests of Mr. Shahram Rafi’zadeh, Mr. Hanif Mazrou’i, Mr. Rouzbeh Mir Ebrahimi, Mr. Omid Me’marian, Mr. Javad Qolam Tamayomi, Mr. Mehdi Derayati, Mr. Mas’oud Qoreyshi, Mr. Ahmad Vatankhah, Mr. Saeed Motalebi and all others who have been arrested as a consequence of the efforts of the authorities to limit the freedom of expression; 6. Calls on the Iranian authorities to allow free speech and urges the immediate and unconditional release of the journalists that have recently been arrested and all other journalists that have been imprisoned before; 7. Calls on the Iranian authorities not to continue with the practice of arresting family members of journalists and reformers; 8. Condemns the travel ban that was imposed on journalist and human rights activist Mr. Emadeddin Baghi and urges the Iranian authorities to lift this travel ban immediately; 9. Condemns the filtering of internet sites by the Iranian authorities as part of the campaign to limit the freedom of expression in Iran and calls on the authorities to stop this campaign immediately; 10. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Chief of the Supreme Court of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Government and Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Iran.