by Parliament; 4. Calls for initiation of the conciliation procedure under the Joint Declaration of 4 March 1975 if the Council intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 5. Asks the Council to consult Parliament again if it intends to amend the Commission proposal substantially; 6. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Amendments by Parliament This text has been provided by Council services and is subject to legal linguistic verification. to the Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION Establishing for the period 2007-2013 the specific programme "Fundamental rights and citizenship" as part of the General programme "Fundamental Rights and Justice" THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 308 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission OJ C , , p. . , Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament OJ C , , p. . , […] Whereas: (1) The European Union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, principles which are common to the Member States. (2) The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union Proclaimed in Nice on 7 December 2000, OJ C 364, 18.12.2000, p. 1. [...], bearing in mind its status and scope, and the accompanying explanations, reflects the rights as they result, in particular, from the constitutional traditions and international obligations common to the Member States, the Treaty on European Union, the Community Treaties, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms Signed in Rome on 4 November 1950. , the social charters adopted by the Community and by the Council of Europe and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the European Court of Human Rights. (3) In November 2004 the European Council recognised the importance of communication to bring all persons close to the European project by encouraging an active citizenship. (4) In its Communication to the Council and the European Parliament on Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union COM(2003) 609, 15.10.2003. , the Commission underlines the importance of the role that civil society plays both in protecting and promoting fundamental rights; the Commission therefore should establish an open, transparent and regular dialogue with civil society. (4a) According to the Hague Programme, strengthening mutual cooperation requires an explicit effort to improve mutual understanding among judicial authorities and different legal systems. European networks of national public authorities should deserve special attention and support in this respect; (4b) The Conference of the European Constitutional Courts and the Association of the Councils of State and Supreme Administrative Jurisdictions of the European Union contribute, in particular by maintaining relevant databases, to an exchange of views and experience on matters concerning the jurisprudence, organisation and functioning of their Members in the performance of their judicial and advisory functions with regard to Community law. It ought to be possible to co-finance the activities of the Conference and the Association to the