9999/C Q999 E/008 WRITTEN QUESTION E-0104/04 by José Ribeiro e Castro (UEN) to the Commission (13 January 2004) Subject: Namibia - Farms threatened with occupation Following the deadlock in negotiations between the Namibian Farmworkers Union (NAFU) and the Namibia Agricultural Union (NAU), which comprises most of the country's farm-owners, NAFU has announced that it intends to occupy certain farms, giving rise to fears of a re-run, although without official support, of what has been happening in Zimbabwe. This situation has been reported in The Namibian newspaper and some international media. Tension continues to rise, with NAFU announcing that these actions could begin this month. Since independence, Namibia has sought to establish a certain degree of equity with regard to land ownership, by adopting the 'willing seller, willing buyer' programme, with the right of preference reserved to those cases where the owner is seeking to sell, without taking or advocating any kind of violent or forced expropriation measures. With the next presidential election campaign drawing near, to appoint Sam Nujoma's successor after 14 years in power, there are forecasts that this issue may be used as a way of stirring up the population, and fears that people and property could, as a result, suffer greatly. - Does the Commission have any reliable information on this issue, and how does it see future developments? - Has it established contacts, or will it do so, with the authorities, or the trade union headquarters or the bosses' unions in Namibia in this connection? What measures has it taken or will it take to try to prevent the confrontation from worsening and dragging in other applicant countries? - Does it believe that European interests are in any way threatened in Namibia? Has it obtained safety guarantees from the Namibian Government? Will it do so? - Would it be prepared to collaborate with the Namibian Government, should this be requested? Does it believe the European Union could have a role in this issue as a potential means of reconciliation between the parties at dispute?