Question for written answer E-009333/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Corinne Lepage (ALDE) (18 October 2011) Subject: EFSA opinion on the threshold of toxicological concern (TTC) This summer the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) organised a consultation on a draft opinion of its Scientific Committee on the threshold of toxicological concern (TTC) EFSA Scientific Committee; Draft Scientific Opinion on exploring options for providing preliminary advice about possible human health risks based on the concept of Threshold of Toxicological Concern (TTC), EFSA (2011), available online. . The opinion is an own initiative of the EFSA and proposes to substitute the actual testing of chemicals with a fixed exposure figure. This concept is claimed to have been developed for chemical impurities and metabolites, but there are a number of proposals — generally from the industry in scientific journals — to introduce the use of the TTC in several areas for the evaluation of chemicals and GMOs. Adoption of the TTC would represent a fundamental change in risk assessment practices, with far reaching consequences. 1. Will the Commission have an input on this EFSA own-initiative opinion on the TTC? 2. The TTC would remove the decades-old EU policy of accepting no threshold for genotoxic substances. What does the Commission think of the EFSA draft opinion aimed at abandoning this existing policy? 3. How does the Commission evaluate the fact that independent literature is not taken into account for deriving the TTC and that the proposal is mainly based on non-retrievable industry-sponsored studies? 4. What does the Commission think of the proposal of BASF-employees in a scientific journal Melching-Kollmuß S., Dekant W., Kalberlah F., Application of the ‘threshold of toxicological concern’ to derive tolerable concentrations of ‘non-relevant metabolites’ formed from plant protection products in ground and drinking water, Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology 56 (2010), pp.126–134. to use the TTC to relax the drinking water standard for pesticides from 0.1 µg/L to 3µg/L? 5. The EFSA included endocrine-disrupting chemicals in the TTC, although even the industry excluded them in its proposals because of the low dose effects. In vivo scientific studies show many effects at doses below this TTC — even 10, 100, 1 000 and up to 7 500 times lower. Does the Commission think that endocrine-disrupting chemicals can be evaluated by this TTC? 6. Will the Commission allow the TTC to be used in cases of existing test requirements, with the effect of waiving these test requirements? 7. Does the Commission consider that the initiative to propose such fundamental changes in risk assessment should come from you rather than from the EFSA?