to documents held by the Agency . 2. The Administrative Board shall adopt arrangements for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 within six months after the entry into force of this Regulation. 3. Decisions taken by the Agency in pursuance of Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 may be the subject of a complaint to the Ombudsman or an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union, under Articles 228 and 263 of the TFEU respectively. 4. When processing data relating to individuals, the Agency shall be subject to the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1. . Article 19 Security rules The Agency shall apply the security principles contained in Commission Decision 2001/844/EC, ECSC, Euratom. This shall cover, inter alia, provisions for the exchange, handling and storage of classified information. Article 20 Participation of third countries 1. The Agency shall be open to the participation of third countries, which have entered into agreements with the European Union to this effect. 2. Under the relevant provisions of these agreements, arrangements shall be developed specifying, in particular, the nature, extent and manner in which these countries will participate in the work of the Agency, including provisions relating to participation in the initiatives undertaken by the Agency, financial contributions and staff. ▌ Chapter VI Final provisions Article 20a Amendment Throughout Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 the words "European GNSS Supervisory Authority" and "Authority" shall be replaced by "European GNSS Agency" and "Agency" respectively. Article 20b Repeal and validity of measures taken Regulation 1321/2004 is hereby repealed. References to the repealed Regulation shall be construed as references to this Regulation. Any measure adopted on the basis of Regulation 1321/2004 shall remain valid. Article 20c Evaluation By 2012 at the latest, the Commission shall evaluate this Regulation, particularly as regards the Agency’s tasks laid down in Article 2, and, if necessary, make proposals. Article 21 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the [twentieth] day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 of 9 July 2008 on the further implementation of the European satellite navigation programmes (EGNOS and Galileo) defined the new framework for the public governance and financing of the Galileo and EGNOS programmes. It set out the principle of the strict division of responsibilities between the European Community, represented by the Commission, the Authority and the European Space Agency (hereafter referred to as ‘ESA’), granting the Commission responsibility for the Management role of the programmes. It also provided that the Authority (hereafter referred to as Agency in line with the Commission's proposal), when accomplishing such tasks entrusted to