to any reduction in real terms in the financing of either the DCI or the EDF (as compared to their present levels), nor of the aggregate amount of funds made available at EU level for ODA. Adequate Funding The future instrument for supplying EU development aid must be adequately equipped in financial terms. The EU has committed itself to the collective target of spending 0.7 % of its GNI on ODA by 2015. For reaching this aim, the current level of European aid will have to significantly increase. Given the added value of Commission aid, and the Commission's new role in coordinating the Union's and the Member States' development policy (Art. 210 TFEU), the share of ODA channelled through the EU budget should remain at least stable. The annual figures for the new development cooperation instrument in the next MFF period should significantly increase in real terms. Reminding the Member States of their commitment at the European Council of 29-30 October 2009, Parliament insists that financing for climate change adaptation should "not undermine or jeopardize the fight against poverty and continued progress towards the Millennium Development Goals” and therefore must be additional to funds foreseen for the achievement of the specific DCI and EDF objectives. Focus on poverty eradication and ODA criteria The DCI is defined as a real development cooperation instrument, in particular through the provisions in Article 2(1) (defining eradication of poverty as the primary and overarching objective) and Article 2(4) (100% of funding under geographical programmes and 90% for thematic programmes must comply with the criteria for ODA). In line with Article 208 TFEU, such provisions must feature in any future successor instrument to the DCI, and – as the experience of the DCI shows – may need to be formulated in even stricter terms. Thematic programmes will continue to include some measures which are not ODA-compatible, but clear quota will have to be defined. Reaching the MDGs must remain the paramount objective of the future development cooperation instrument, given that the target of 2015 falls within the lifespan of the next development instrument. But even if all MDGs were fulfilled, poverty will remain a reality for many. For the period beyond 2015, we need to find a formula which ensures coherence with new international targets yet to be defined. The DCI benchmark of 20% spending on health and education (by 2009) has been an important reference point for Parliament, but its implementation has been difficult to monitor. In the future instrument, a similar benchmark must be upheld, but - for the sake of transparency and clarity – it should refer to the concept of "basic social services" as defined by the United Nations in MDG 8 (indicator 8.2), and require stringent reporting by the Commission. The food price crisis has proved the need for flexible and fast reaction in order to respond to sudden changes in terms of needs and priorities. This might be reflected not only in the architecture for external financing, but also in the development cooperation instrument itself. Geographic and thematic programmes There is a