News Report : 11-02-2004 Brussels, 11 February 2004 Barrage of criticism for Colombian President Colombian President Alvaro URIBE appeared before the Foreign Affairs Committee on Tuesday afternoon following his address to a formal sitting of the European Parliament's plenary assembly at noon the same day. Mr Uribe's meeting with the committee represented a break with usual practice for visiting heads of state. He found himself facing a barrage of criticism over his country's current security policy and breaches of human rights. During the plenary sitting, European Parliament President Pat Cox issued an appeal to his guest for a functioning democratic state to be set up that respected human rights. According to Mr Cox "there are no acceptable exceptions" and he urged the Colombian President do make every effort to obtain the release of the hostages held by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). Three of Parliament's political groups (ELDR, Greens, EUL/NGL) had been of the opinion that Mr Uribe's visit was inappropriate but they seized the opportunity to protest against the security policy being conducted by the Colombian government at the expense, they said, of human rights. The two biggest groups (EPP-ED and PES) took the view that this visit could provide an opportunity to exert pressure, by means of dialogue and criticism, on the highest authorities of Colombia. "On behalf of the EPP-ED, I wish to say that we are not making the most noise about your visit" , said José Ignacio SALAFRANCA (EPP-ED, E), who was instrumental in inviting Mr Uribe to Strasbourg. "Mr Uribe is trying to bring about peace in his country and he deserves the same respect as we would if we were visiting him" , he added to protests from a number of MEPs. "We appeal for the release of the European hostages held by FARC" , he added. Richard HOWITT (PES,UK) told Mr Uribe "Your government seeks to stifle opposition" and he urged that Colombia abide by its international commitments on human rights. "Our group does not agree with this visit" , said Pedro MARSET CAMPOS (EUL/NGL, E) and he deplored the judicial powers granted to the army, saying these were in contradiction with the rules of international law. President URIBE, however, presented himself as a champion of democracy. "We all have one thing in common: we are all fighting for democracy" , he told MEPs. "But I will be frank with you. I do not want to say here that I am willing to negotiate with terrorists while they continue to assassinate our people" . On the question of prisoner exchanges, on which neither the authorities nor the FARC seem prepared to yield, Mr Uribe said "one must not place on the same footing the prisoners of FARC and those who have committed terrorist acts" . He compared the situation of "the disappeared" to "Hitler's concentration camps" and went on to say "I am not opposed to a humanitarian agreement, but under reasonable conditions" . He stressed the need to ensure that any released guerrillas did not commit new atrocities. "Why release those