helped to bridge deep and bitter divisions, and now there was also this opportunity for Cyprus. The decision, he emphasised, rested with the people of Cyprus, north and south. Mr Roche said he was fully aware of the historic nature of the decision, but he recalled the words of Kofi ANNAN , who has described the current plan as " the only available and only foreseeable route " to reunification of the island. Mr Roche spoke of the donors conference which met the previous week under the chairmanship of Commissioner Verheugen. There had been definite commitments to financial support for the implementation of the plan from a number of Member States, including Ireland. He noted also that the UN Security Council had indicated its willingness to approve new UN activity on the ground, continuing the work that has been going on since 1964 in the longest running peace keeping mission in UN history. Mr Roche said the people of Cyprus would make the decision and the choice was theirs alone. He said the EU understood the history and the passions of the argument, and would respect the choice made by the people, while hoping it would be one which allowed the peaceful integration of a united Cyprus into the EU. Commissioner Verheugen recalled that peaceful co-existence was a fundamental value of the EU, and with Cyprus due to join the EU in ten days time, the leaders of the island should bear this in mind. He also stated that Cyprus was the last remaining divided in country in Europe: " a country where barbed wire and minefields are still to be found ". " We have never been so close to an agreement, yet there was now little hope left ". President Tassos Papadopoulos, he said, had surprised everybody by pursuing a rejectionist strategy and called his position "extremely regrettable ". He recalled that in 1999, the Greek Cypriot leadership had promised not to bring down a proposed agreement and he called on the Greek Cypriot government to live up to its commitments. During the negotiations, the Greek Cypriots, he said, had only asked for relatively minor changes to the draft agreement. " I am going to be undiplomatic, I feel cheated by the Greek Cypriot government ", said Commissioner Verheugen. He regretted that the Greek Cypriot discourse in the campaign had not used the words " peace, understanding and co-existence" rather it had concentrated on only the "commercial aspects of a possible reunification ." The Commission, he remarked, had fulfilled its obligations and had assisted in providing a draft agreement that could be transposed into national law as well providing institutions capable of meeting the obligations of international law. " There would never be a solution which satisfies either side 100 % " he stated. He made one final appeal to the people of Cyprus to vote in favour of the draft agreement. Elmar BROK (D) for the EPP-ED recalled that the Foreign Affairs Committee had drawn up a draft report which supported the Annan plan. He also supported this plan