On application the approval of an active substance shall be renewed where it is established that the criteria referred to in Article 4 are satisfied. Article 4 shall be deemed to be satisfied where this has been established with respect to one or more representative uses of at least one plant protection product containing that active substance. Such renewal of the approval may include conditions and restrictions, as referred to in Article 7. 2. The approval may be renewed once or repeatedly for a period not exceeding 10 years . Article 16 Application for renewal 1. The application provided for in Article 15 shall be submitted by a producer of the active substance to the Member State concerned , with a copy to the other Member States, the Commission and the Authority, no later than three years before the expiry of the first approval. 2. When applying for renewal, the applicant shall identify new data he intends to submit and demonstrate that they are necessary, because of data requirements or criteria which were not applicable on first approval of the active substance or because his request is for an amended approval. He shall at the same time submit a timetable of any new and ongoing studies. The applicant shall identify, giving reasons, the parts of the information submitted that are to be kept confidential in accordance with Article 66. Article 17 Access to the application for renewal The Authority shall, without delay, make available to the public the information provided by the applicant under Article 16 , excluding any information declared confidential under Article 66. Article 18 Extension of approval period for the duration of the procedure Where for reasons beyond the control of the applicant it appears that the approval is likely to expire before a decision has been taken on renewal, a Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83 (3), postponing the expiry for a period sufficient to examine the application. In particular, such a Regulation shall be adopted where applicants could not give the three years" notice required under Article 16 (1) because the active substance was included in Annex I to Directive 91/414/EEC for a duration which expired less than three years after the date of application of this Regulation. The length of that period shall be established on the basis of the following: a) the time needed to provide the information requested; b) the time needed to complete the procedure; c) the need to ensure the establishment of a coherent programme of work, as provided for in Article 19. Article 19 Programme of work The Commission may establish a programme of work grouping together similar active substances. This programme may require interested parties to submit all the necessary data to the Commission, the Authority and the Member States within a period provided for in the programme. The programme shall include the following: a) the procedures concerning the submission and assessment of applications for renewal of approvals; b) the necessary data to be submitted including measures to minimise animal testing,