to the European Parliament on 10 to 13 June 1999, (OJ C 296, 18.10.2000, p. 93.). , B. whereas Members of the European Parliament may not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties Article 9 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities. , C. whereas the immunity from legal proceedings enjoyed by Members of the European Parliament also covers immunity from civil proceedings, D. whereas Members of the European Parliament have a responsibility to participate in political affairs within their own constituency, and accordingly when they publish articles in journals and newspapers on controversial topics they are properly deemed to be engaged in the performance of their duties as MEPs. 1. Decides to defend the immunity and privileges of Giuseppe Gargani; 2 Proposes, on the grounds of Article 9 of the aforementioned protocol, to hold that in the case in question proceedings may not be pursued and invites the Court to draw the necessary conclusions; 3. Instructs its President immediately to forward this decision and the report of its committee to Section I of the Court of Milan. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT I. Facts of the case According to the information supplied by Mr Gargani in his letter of 24 September 2003 to the President of Parliament, the circumstances which may warrant measures to defend Mr Gargani's parliamentary immunity can be summarised as follows: On 30 April 2003 Mr Giancarlo Casseli, Public Prosecutor at the Court of Appeal of Turin, issued an 'atto di citazione' ( a form of originating summons incorporating a statements of claims) requiring Mr Gargani to attend a hearing, and admit liability, before Investigating Judge Rosa at the Court of Milan, Section I, civil proceedings, on 7 October 2003 and ordering him to pay compensation of Euro 154.937,07 for the damage caused to the plaintiff by the publication of certain article in the Italian Press. The controversy originated with an article published by Mr Giancarlo Casselli in UNITA entitled Legislazione di stampo mafioso ( Mafia press law) on 4 August 2002 where Mr Casselli labelled a proposed bill on "legitimate suspicion" and the initiatives put forward by Mr Gargani's political party as opening the way to "Mafia press law". The article explained how the law would make more difficult to proceed against Mafia organisations and complained about the fast-track procedure adopted by the Italian parliament to pass the law. Mr Gargani wrote back an article in the Giornale on 10 August 2002 stating that "legitimate suspicion" in relation with Prosecutor Casseli is "legitimate certainty", that Casselli "shows clearly, as perhaps he had never done before, that judge can use his position to express his political views and demonstrate his partiality for all the world to see". These, and others similar statements and assertions, led M Casseli to bring a civil action against Mr Gargani with a view to defend his honour and to request a compensation of Euro 154.937,07 for the damage caused. II. Article