States may withdraw or refuse to renew an EU Blue Card for reasons of public policy, public security or public health. 3. Member States may withdraw or refuse to renew an EU Blue Card only where there is a threat to the implementation of public policy, or to public security or public health which can be objectively demonstrated . Amendment 39 Proposal for a directive Article 11 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 1 a (new) By issuing an EU Blue Card, a Member State commits itself to issuing relevant documentation and visas, where applicable, as speedily as possible, but at least within a reasonable period of time before the applicant is due to start the employment on the basis of which the EU Blue Card was issued, unless that Member State cannot reasonably be expected to do so because of a late application for the EU Blue Card by either the employer or the third-country national concerned. Amendment 40 Proposal for a directive Article 12 − paragraph 2 2. If the information supplied in support of the application is inadequate, the competent authorities shall notify the applicant of the additional information that is required. The period referred to in paragraph 1 shall be suspended until the authorities have received the additional information required. 2. If the information supplied in support of the application is inadequate, the competent authorities shall notify the applicant as soon as possible of the additional information that is required. The period referred to in paragraph 1 shall be suspended until the authorities have received the additional information required. Amendment 41 Proposal for a directive Article 12 − paragraph 3 3. Any decision rejecting an application for an EU Blue Card, or non-renewing or withdrawing an EU Blue Card, shall be notified in writing to the third-country national concerned and, where relevant, to his/her employer in accordance with the notification procedures under the relevant national legislation and shall be open to challenge before the courts of the Member State concerned. The notification shall specify the reasons for the decision, the possible redress procedures available and the time limit for taking action. 3. Any decision rejecting an application for an EU Blue Card, or non-renewing or withdrawing an EU Blue Card, shall be notified in writing to the third-country national concerned and, where relevant, to his/her employer in accordance with the notification procedures under the relevant national legislation and shall be open to challenge before the competent authority of the Member State concerned designated in accordance with national law . The notification shall specify the reasons for the decision, the possible redress procedures available and the time limit for taking action. Amendment 42 Proposal for a directive Article 13 – paragraph 1 1. For the first two years of legal residence in the Member State concerned as holder of an EU Blue Card, access to the labour market for the person concerned shall be restricted to the exercise of paid employment activities which meet the conditions for admission set out in Articles 5 and 6. Modifications of the terms of