used for purposes other than those for which they were intended . Justification Common rules must be laid down, without breaching data security and protection obligations, in order to prevent data being used for purposes other than those for which they were gathered. Amendment 21 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The offence notification shall contain a description of the relevant details of the offence concerned and the amount of the financial penalty that the holder is required to pay, the possibilities for the holder to contest the grounds for the offence notification and to appeal against a decision imposing a financial penalty, and the procedure to be followed in case of dispute or appeal. 2. The offence notification shall , as a minimum, contain the subject of the notification, the name of the authority responsible for enforcing the sanctions , the name of the competent authority responsible for applying this Directive and a description of the relevant details of the offence concerned . It shall specify the amount of the financial penalty , the most convenient payment procedures, the date by when it must be paid, the possibilities for contesting the grounds for the offence notification and for appealing against a decision imposing a financial penalty, and the procedure to be followed in case of dispute or appeal. Justification The content of the notification must be as complete as possible in order to furnish the holder of the registration certificate with information about the offence committed, the administrative authority responsible and possibilities of appeals. Amendment 22 Proposal for a directive Article 5 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2a. Any financial penalty imposed under this Directive shall be non discriminatory in terms of nationality and shall be imposed under the law of the State of offence. Amendment 23 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The offence notification shall inform the holder that he must complete a reply form if he does not intend to pay the penalty. 3. The offence notification shall inform the holder that he must complete a reply form within a specified period if he does not intend to pay the penalty. It shall also inform the holder that, any refus al to pay, shall be communicated to the competent authority of the State of residence for enforcement of the decision . Justification This amendment seeks to ensure that offences are effectively followed up by allowing the transmission of a refusal to pay for whatever reason to the authorities of the State of residence of the certificate holder. Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3a. The notification of the offence shall notify the holder that his or her personal data shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of Directive 95/46/EC and shall point out his or her rights as regards access, correction and deletion, as referred to in Article