musical drama film directed by Paul L. Stein and starring Richard Tauber, Leonora Corbett, Kathleen Kelly, Diana Napier" ] ], [ "The Common Law (film)", [ "The Common Law is a 1931 American pre-Code romantic drama film, directed by Paul L. Stein and produced by Charles R. Rogers.", " Based on Robert W. Chambers' 1911 novel, this was the third time the book was made into a film, and the first during the talking film era.", " The sexual drama stars Constance Bennett and Joel McCrea in the title roles.", " It was received well both at the box office and by film critics, becoming one of RKO's most financially successful films of the year.", " The novel, \"The Common Law\", had been filmed before in 1923 with Corinne Griffith starring." ] ], [ "Paul L. Foster School of Medicine", [ "The Paul L. Foster School of Medicine is a medical school in El Paso, Texas at Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center El Paso.", " The Paul L. Foster School of Medicine is the 9th medical school in the state of Texas, and the medical school is the first one to open in almost four decades.", " As a result of the numerous financial donations, as well as state funds, The Paul L. Foster School of Medicine has the ability to expand, construct new buildings and hospitals, purchase elaborate training equipment, and hire nationally respected professors.", " This academic staff is able to train current students through the utilization of state of the art educational and skill enhancing technologies that are considered to be pioneering the medical education process for the next several decades.", " An example of this ability is demonstrated through the advanced technologies employed in their large Clinical Simulation Center." ] ], [ "Stuart Paton", [ "Stuart Paton (23 July 1883 – 16 December 1944) was a British director, screenwriter and actor of the silent era.", " He directed 67 films between 1915 and 1938.", " He also wrote for 24 films between 1914 and 1927.", " Despite a sizable list of credits, Paton was never well-regarded, especially as a director." ] ] ] }