given that promotion activities should be given a more central role in the reformed CAP, which places greater importance on market orientation; calls, therefore, for the amounts allocated to those headings to be maintained at least at their 2006 levels; 14. Calls, in view of the new rules concerning exceptional support measures for the market in poultrymeat and eggs, for the budget heading for which no sum is currently earmarked (p.m.) to have allocated to it an amount sufficient to cover spending for 2007; 15. Considers that the appropriations allocated to the milk sector, especially for refunds, fall far short of real needs, and therefore calls for realistic amounts to be entered under the headings concerned; 16. Considers that, in the face of the growing incidence of poverty within the Union's borders, the programmes for the least-favoured must be strengthened; believes that outside the Union's borders, even if poverty is receding in global terms, there are still major needs, especially as far as food is concerned, and that it is therefore necessary to send out a clear political message of solidarity via appropriate reinforcement of the budget headings for food aid; 17. Deplores the Commission and Council cuts in budget heading 05 08 06, relating to measures to enhance awareness of the CAP, and considers that it should be brought up to the same level as in the 2006 budget; 18. Considers that, in the context of the start of the new financial framework and the budget for 2007, instruments should be found - as well as the necessary financial resources - to support and promote family farming; urges the Commission to submit a proposal to this end; 19. Stresses the need to carry out a reform of the CAP leading to genuine modulation and limitation of maximum amounts of agricultural aid, with a view to guaranteeing that aid is fairly distributed between producers, products and countries; 20. Believes that the importance of certain forms of direct aid is such that it is necessary to increase their amounts, so as to neutralise the impact of the 4% modulation, and to enter in the budget the headings corresponding to the needs estimated by the Commission before it implements the modulation-linked reduction; 21. Recommends maintaining the sum now allocated for financing information campaigns, even more so since the arrival of two new Member States where agriculture still plays a very important role will increase needs rather than reducing them; 22. Calls for an increased effort to be made with regard to information on and promotion of animal welfare, so as both to encourage consumers to prefer the products of animal welfare-friendly farming and to prevent panic reactions such as that which occurred with bird flu and the collapse in demand which has in some cases resulted in certain Member States; 23. Urges the European Commission and Council to provide for sufficient means for research into and the provision of vaccines against animal diseases, especially given the arrival of previously unknown virus types in the Union; 24. Calls for an increase in appropriations with a