P6_TA(2006)0258 Protection of personal data * A6-0192/2006 Proposal for a Council framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial co-operation in criminal matters ( COM(2005)0475 – C6-0436/2005 – 2005/0202(CNS) ) (Consultation procedure) The proposal was amended as follows The matter was then referred back to committee pursuant to Rule 53(2) ( A6-0192/2006 ). : Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Citation 1 Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Article 30, Article 31 and Article 34(2)(b) thereof, Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Article 30(1)(b), Article 31(1)(c) and Article 34(2)(b) thereof, Amendment 2 Recital 9 (9) Ensuring a high level of protection of the personal data of European citizens requires common provisions to determine the lawfulness and the quality of data processed by competent authorities in other Member States. (9) Ensuring a high level of protection of the personal data of all persons within the territory of the European Union requires common provisions to determine the lawfulness and the quality of data processed by competent authorities in other Member States. It also requires that personal data be collected and processed for legitimate and specific purposes. Data may not be further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes, including in the framework of the increasing exchange of information between law enforcement and judicial authorities and in relation to the proposal on the interoperability of databases. Amendment 3 Recital 12 (12) Where personal data are transferred from a Member State of the European Union to third countries or international bodies, these data should , in principle, benefit from an adequate level of protection. (12) Where personal data are transferred from a Member State of the European Union to third countries or international bodies, these data should benefit from an adequate level of protection. This Framework Decision should ensure that personal data received from third countries comply at least with international standards on the respect of human rights. Amendments 4 and 5 Recital 15 (15) It is appropriate to establish common rules on the confidentiality and security of the processing, on liability and sanctions for unlawful use by competent authorities as well as judicial remedies available for the data subject. Furthermore, it is necessary that Member States provide for criminal sanctions for particularly serious and intentionally committed infringements of data protection provisions. (15) It is appropriate to establish common rules on the confidentiality and security of the processing, on liability and sanctions for unlawful use by competent authorities and by private parties processing personal data on behalf of competent authorities or in a public capacity, as well as judicial remedies available for the data subject. Furthermore, it is necessary that Member States provide for criminal sanctions for particularly serious and intentional or grossly negligent infringements of data protection provisions. Amendment 6 Recital 20 (20) The present Framework Decision is without prejudice to the specific data protection provisions laid down in the relevant legal instruments relating to the processing and protection of personal data