Question for written answer E-004615/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Fiorello Provera (EFD) (12 May 2011) Subject: UNRWA staff opposition to Holocaust education On 14 April 2011, the Palestinian daily newspaper Al-Hayat Al-Jadida reported that workers in UNRWA announced their ‘adamant opposition’ to teaching Palestinian children about the ‘Holocaust of the Jews within the educational curriculum of UNRWA schools’. The UNWRA workers’ union said: ‘We emphasise our adamant opposition to confusing the thinking of our students by means of Holocaust studies in the human rights study curriculum, and emphasise study of the history of Palestine and the acts of massacre which have been carried out against Palestinians, the most recent of which was the war against Gaza’. The union’s reaction was a result of UNRWA's decision to include Holocaust education in its curriculum. On 1 March 2011, the Jerusalem Post reported that Hamas and Fatah had vowed to foil any attempt to teach the Holocaust in UNRWA-run schools in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. Both parties called teaching this subject a ‘provocative act’. According to a statement produced by the Hamas-controlled Ministry of Culture, it said: ‘this is an attempt to impose on us the culture of normalisation with the occupation’. The Ministry described the Holocaust as a lie, saying it had been exaggerated to garner sympathy for the ‘usurping entity’ at the expense of the rights and interests of the Palestinians. The EU contribution is the largest single donation to UNRWA’s core budget, which supports the Agency’s regular activities in education, health, relief and social services and camp improvement. On 21 March 2011, the EU representative, Mr Christian Berger, and UNRWA's Commissioner-General, Filippo Grandi, signed an agreement between the EU and UNRWA worth EUR 40million. In light of the resistance from members of UNRWA's staff to teaching the history of the Holocaust to Palestinian children, what steps is the Commission prepared to adopt in order to urge UNRWA officials to include Holocaust education within the curriculum, given that as a UN body it has a role to maintain an open and unbiased position regarding education? At present, is the Commission able to report on the nature of the current educational curriculum of students in UNRWA schools, given that, as mentioned previously, the EU is the largest single donor to UNRWA's core budget?