and the budgets of the bodies referred to in Article 185; d) the consolidated reports on implementation of the budget which present in aggregated form the information contained in the reports referred to in point (c). Article 122 The accounts of the institutions and bodies referred to in Article 185 shall be accompanied by a report on budgetary and financial management during the year. Article 123 The accounts must comply with the rules and be accurate and comprehensive and present a true and fair view: a) as regards the financial statements, of the assets and liabilities, charges and income, entitlements and obligations not shown as assets or liabilities and cash flow; b) as regards reports on budgetary implementation, of revenue and expenditure operations. Article 124 The financial statements shall be drawn up in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles, namely: a) going-concern basis; b) prudence; c) consistent accounting methods; d) comparability of information; e) materiality; f) no netting; g) reality over appearance; h) accrual-based accounting. Article 125 1. In accordance with the principle of accrual-based accounting, the financial statements shall show the charges and income for the financial year, regardless of the date of payment or collection. 2. The value of assets and liabilities shall be determined in accordance with the valuation rules provided for in Article 133. Article 126 1. The financial statements shall be presented in millions of euro and shall comprise: a) the balance sheet and the economic outturn account, which represent the assets and liabilities and financial situation and the economic outturn at 31 December of the previous year; they shall be presented in accordance with the structure laid down by the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, but with account being taken of the specific nature of the Communities' activities; b) the cash-flow table showing amounts collected and disbursed during the year and the final treasury position; c) the statement of changes in capital presenting in detail the increases and decreases during the year in each item of the capital accounts. 2. The Annex to the financial statements shall supplement and comment on the information presented in the statements referred to in paragraph 1 and shall supply all the additional information prescribed by internationally accepted accounting practice where such information is relevant to the activities of the Communities. Article 127 The budgetary implementation reports shall be presented in millions of euro. They shall comprise: a) the budgetary outturn account, which sets out all budgetary operations for the year in terms of revenue and expenditure; the structure in which it is presented shall be the same as that of the budget itself; b) the Annex to the budget outturn account, which shall supplement and comment on the information given in that account. Article 128 The accounting officers of the other institutions and bodies referred to in Article 185 shall send to the Commission's accounting officer by 1 March of the following year at the latest their provisional accounts together with the report on budgetary and