in order to prevent or terminate irregularities" (ES-1, para.28) 2. Prudential Supervision Prudential supervision in the life assurance business can be defined as: · Ensuring that companies who are not fit and proper, not appropriately resourced and soundly managed, do not carry on life insurance business · Protecting policyholders against the risk of life assurance companies being unable to pay valid claims or being unable to meet policyholders' reasonable expectations The prudential requirements for corporate governance and financial management Prudential requirements include i.e. for directors, managers and controlling shareholders to be 'fit and proper', the principle of 'sound and prudent management', minimum solvency margins, minimum guaranteed funds etc.. to be enforced by UK regulators appeared broadly equivalent to prudential requirements in other Member States, except for the addition of UK-specific features such as the concept of 'policyholders' reasonable expectations' (PRE), the GAD and the Company Actuary (Appointed Actuary). 2a) Period 1982 - 1998 Under the Insurance Companies Act 1982 , which had incorporated provisions required by the implementation of the 1LD, the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) was responsible for prudential supervision of insurance companies (including Equitable Life) as well as for policy and legislation in this sector. Until 4 January 1998, the DTI department known as the "Insurance Directorate" had immediate responsibility for prudential insurance regulation (i.e. ensuring firms were solvent), with the assistance of the Government Actuary's Department (GAD). "GAD began to provide actuarial advice on insurance matters to the prudentially competent authority in the 1960s. This included advice on individual companies, on new applications for authorisation to write life insurance business and on policy issues, either of a general nature or relating to the affairs of particular companies... GAD acted solely as an adviser to the prudential competent authority. All powers under the statute were retained by the prudential competent authority, with GAD having no authority to instruct a company or its Appointed Actuary to take any actions, but only to provide advice to the prudential competent authority to assist it in the fulfilment of its supervisory responsibilities. In practice in later years of the period GAD corresponded with companies directly on technical matters." (WE32) WE32, para.8-9. Institutionally, the GAD reported to the Chancellor of the Exchequer and its Department Minister is the Financial Secretary to the Treasury. In practice, " it was the responsibility of GAD to monitor the financial position of each life insurance company, including examination of annual regulatory returns, quarterly regulatory returns ... and other information, to discuss matters with the company, and in particular with the Appointed Actuary, to clear up any uncertainties and, if possible, to resolve any disagreements. GAD would then report to DTI ... GAD developed its own working rules to define what was acceptable ... issued as guidance to Appointed Actuaries in the form of letters ..." (WE32) WE32, para.10,14. . The main output of GAD's monitoring of an insurance company was a " Detailed Scrutiny Report " for the prudential supervision authority. At the start of the period under review, " there was no doubt that GAD was