against the EU, this would be the task of the judge. We said in our report that EU judges must always be present because we believe that whenever there is a claim or complaint against the Union about a Community measure the EU and Member States must be present. We believe it is necessary that the Member States and the Union have the right to defend themselves. European Convention on Human Rights Signed within Council of Europe in 1950 in Rome Established European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg People can bring their case to the Court after exhaustion of national routes Does not apply to EU acts now, although all countries have an obligation to respect it Draft report European Convention on Human Rights Ramón Jáuregui MEP Constitutional Affairs Committee Violence against women: MEP says "You can build a new life" Swedish MEP Eva-Britt Svensson: "You blame yourself, he has control of everything" Swedish MEP Eva-Britt Svensson speaks of her experiences Urges support for victims The upcoming International Women's Day has thrown attention towards what can be done to help women who suffer domestic violence. As leftwing Swedish MEP Eva-Britt Svensson knows only too well, the violence can often be perpetrated by partners in a relationship or marriage. However, to those living in fear she has a strong message, "it is possible to leave this bad relationship and make your own life". Here she talks about what can be done Europe wide to deal with this problem. What has the European Union and the European Parliament done so far to eliminate violence against women? First of all I think we haven’t done enough because we still have a lot of gender based violence and violence against women. But we have really started to inform people about violence. We have campaigned and we have a special programme called the Daphne programme to tackle violence. Some of our member states have very good legislation concerning violence towards women. Now is the time to have legislation at an EU level. If you had to choose only three tools that EU should adopt in the future to help victims, what would they be? Firstly, support for the victims. You must have legislation so that women in all member states know that it (violence) is a crime. And you must have the possibility to get support from social authorities, from police and from judges. Secondly, the Spanish EU presidency has proposed a common telephone number - this is good because if you have telephone number in your head and it is the same wherever you are, it could be easier for victims to call for help. Number three is to have a good data from all countries about violence: how many victims we have and analyse why we have this violence. Statistics say that every 4th or 5th women in her lifetime suffers physical violence and every 10th suffers sexual violence. You personally also have an experience with violence. What would you say to the victims? I want to say to all women living today in