Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (9 March 2011) The Commission is not in the position to answer questions addressed to the Parliament, or concerning initiatives of the Parliament such as the House of European History. However, the European Union supports projects dealing with the valorisation of cultural heritage of migrants through a range of programmes dealing with culture, education and integration. Fostering intercultural dialogue is one of the three objectives of the Culture programme, which enables cultural organisations to collaborate around cultural and artistic projects See: http://ec.europa.eu/culture/our-programmes-and-actions/doc411_en.htm . The Lifelong learning programme, namely through its Comenius, Erasmus and Grundtvig actions, fosters cooperation among education institutions and may support projects focusing on history teaching See: http://ec.europa.eu/education/lifelong-learning-programme/doc78_en.htm . Many Commission's Representations in the Member States have dealt with the question of the history of migration in various ways, e.g. through organising exhibitions, events, debates and roundtables, speaking at conferences on migration, cooperating with media, issueing of publications, launching competitions, encouraging migrant particpation in the 2009 European Parliament elections etc. Numerous activities took place in the context of the European Years of ‘Intercultural Dialgoue’ (2008) and for ‘Combating poverty and social exclusion’ (2010), as well as at the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall. Often, events take place in cooperation with one of the 500 Europe Direct Information Centres located in all Member States or through Management Partnerships Management Partnerships are concluded between the Commission Representations, the Information Offices of the European Parliament and national Governments. . Ministers responsible for integration have agreed to promote intercultural dialogue and contacts at all levels and to have regular exchange on their experiences in this field Justice and Home Affairs Council of 12/13 June 2007. . The Stockholm Programme has called on the Commission to support Member States' efforts in this respect The Stockholm Programme — An open and secure Europe serving and protecting citizens, available at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:C:2010:115:0001:0038:EN:PDF . As coordinator of the network of National Contact Points on Integration, the Commission actively supports the exchange of experience on integration. A series of targeted meetings on intercultural dialogue were organised in the network. Member States' efforts can also be supported financially through the European Fund for the Integration of Third-country Nationals (2007‑13).