Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (5 July 2010) The Commission does not have official figures on the total amount of money available in Greece for promoting youth entrepreneurship. However, under the Cohesion Policy — Operational Programme ‘Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship’ 2007‑13, a public call for projects, named ‘Enhancing the youth entrepreurship’, was published on 16 June 2009 and closed on 16 November 2009. It supports, via EOMMEX, every possible business activity of young people, by awarding de minimis subsidies (different rates and amounts are allocated, depending on the sector and the region concerned). The total public expenditure of the operation is EUR 24 million. It is difficult to assess Greek performance in promoting youth entrepreneurship. According to the 2009 SME Performance Review — one of the main tools employed by the Commission to monitor the implementation of the Small Business Act — three out of eight main indicators on entrepreneurship place Greece significantly above the EU average. These include the desire to become self-employed, the total entrepreneurial activity index and the future entrepreneur index (percentage of the adult population planning to start a business during the next three years). However, the promotion of youth entrepreneurship starts with offering enterpreneurship education to young people. Despite the implementation of some pilot projects, learning about entrepreneurship has not yet been fully integrated into school education in Greece as in most Member States. Embedding the acquisition of entrepreneurial competences into general secondary education would help make young people more interested in launching their own enterprise later on, and would provide them with the basic skills they will need to be successful. In this respect most Member States, including Greece, need to step up their efforts. As far as higher education is concerned, Greek universities offer special education programmes on entrepreneurship, aimed at undergraduate students (as part of the education curriculum) and/or the so-called Entrepreneurship Services, as part of the career offices. These career offices contribute towards supporting and promoting youth entrepreneurship among tertiary-level students.