results from individual data if the data are collected on the basis of random sampling. Successive configurations When the road transport vehicle chosen for the survey is a lorry used alone, namely without a trailer, throughout the survey period, it constitutes in itself the road vehicle for the transport of goods. However, when the road transport vehicle chosen for the survey is a road tractor - in which case it will have a semi-trailer coupled - or when it is a lorry to which a trailer is coupled, the data required under this Regulation concern the road vehicle for the transport of goods taken as a whole. In this case, there may be a change of configuration during the survey period (with a lorry acquiring a trailer or changing trailer during the period, or a road tractor changing its semi-trailer). In such a case, these successive configurations must be recorded, and the data on the vehicle must be supplied for each journey. However, if it is not possible to record these successive configurations, it is agreed that, for the vehicle-related variables, those corresponding to the configuration at the beginning of the first laden journey made during the survey period or to the configuration used most during that period will be recorded. Change in type of transport In the same way, depending on the journey, the transport may be effected on own account or for hire or reward, and the type of transport must be recorded for each journey. However, if it is not possible to record these changes, it is agreed that the ‘type of transport’ recorded will be that corresponding to the main mode of utilisation. A2. JOURNEY-RELATED VARIABLES During the survey period, the goods road transport vehicle makes journeys, either unloaded (there are no goods or empty packaging in the lorry, the trailer or the semi-trailer, which are therefore ‘completely empty’) or loaded (there are either goods or empty packaging in the lorry, the trailer or the semi-trailer, empty packaging being a particular type of goods). The loaded distance of the goods road transport vehicle is the distance between the first place of loading and the last place of unloading (where the goods road transport vehicle is completely emptied). A laden journey can therefore cover several basic transport operations. The variables to be provided for each journey are as follows: 1. type of journey in accordance with the nomenclature in Annex III; 2. weight of goods carried during the journey or during each stage of the journey, gross weight in 100 kg; 3. place of loading (of the goods road transport vehicle, for a laden journey); - definition: the place of loading is the first place in which goods are loaded on the goods road transport vehicle, which was previously completely empty (or where the road tractor is coupled up to a laden semi-trailer). For an unladen journey, it is the place of unloading of the preceding laden journey (notion of ‘place where unladen journey begins’), - coding: the place of loading is coded in accordance with Annex VII; 4.