our British colleagues ... made it clear that these confidential documents might not be passed on ". Later on, however BaFin (see WE-CONF 17) and FSA (see WE-CONF 9) provided copies of letters exchanged between BAV and the FSA. The first exchange during July and August 2000 concerned the implications of the judgement by the House of Lords, while the second during December 2000 and January 2001 referred to the failure of the Society to find a buyer. According to Mr STEFFEN (H6), Article 17 of the German Constitution Law gives every citizen the right to petition authorities and obliges the authorities to respond. BaFin indicates in its written statement to the committee (WE 21 Page 2. ) that it has received 65 queries and complaints concerning Equitable Life from German policyholders since 2000. It refused to deal with most of them as they predominantly concerned questions of financial supervision, which do not fall within its competence. BaFin would only investigate complaints that allege contraventions of German civil law. Only fourteen of these complaints concerned legal supervision, that is supervision of compliance with German legal provisions. " Of these fourteen complaints, twelve were considered by our staff at the time to be unjustified and two to be justified. In other words, our current understanding is – and I assume that was also the understanding at the time – that Equitable Life has not broken any German laws, at least we have no knowledge of any such matters " (Mr STEFFEN, H6). The two complaints it upheld did not concern issues, which were directly related to Equitable Life's crisis. BaFin did not indicate to the committee whether it has received complaints that allege mis-selling on the grounds that policyholders were not informed by the Society of the GAR risk and whether or not such complaints would have been investigated. One policyholder, Mr SCHÄFER, informed the committee in WE 10 that he complained to BaFin, alleging that he was mis-sold his pension as he was not made aware by Equitable Life that his investment would be in a common pool with Guaranteed Interest Rate (GIR) policies. He argues that the latter have negatively affected his investment. From his correspondence with the German authorities (WE-CONF 1 and WE-CONF 10) it appears that BaFin refused to deal with the complaint, arguing that his complaint would concern 'financial supervision', for which the UK regulator would be responsible and referred him to the FSA. The FSA in turn told him to take the case to the German regulator, because " the host State regulator is responsible for financial advice given in Germany and should be able to adjudicate on whether you have a valid complaint " (see WE-FILE 18). Mr STEFFEN explained in H6 that when BaFin receives German complaints which essentially fall within the remit of the FSA, it informs the German customer on the competence of the FSA and also tells him where he (or she) can make his (or her) representation. Mr WEYER (H4) said that, as far as complaints clearly concern questions of prudential