Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (31 March 2008) With regard to the situation of milk producers in Bulgaria, according to the producer price information communicated from the Member State to the Commission, the price has risen substantially during the second half of 2007, increasing from 20.79 cent in May 2007 to 32.13 cent by November 2007. It is acknowledged that input prices also increased during 2007 so the profit margin for producers did not improve by the full amount of the price increase. More generally, as indicated in the Market Outlook Report which was published by the Commission in December 2007, the prospects for the milk sector are very positive. On the basis of that report, the Commission has proposed to increase the national quotas for all Member States from 1 April 2008 by 2 % to help EU producers to take advantage of emerging market opportunities. This increase was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 2008 and will provide a further boost to the dairy sector in Bulgaria. This proposal reflects the Commission's policy for the development of a sustainable dairy sector through encouraging greater market orientation. The objective is to facilitate the supply of products of the quality and quantity required by the market rather than trying to sustain dairy farmers through large market supports and production aids. Nonetheless, the challenges facing the sector in Bulgaria to meet the standards required for EU markets are understood, and indeed Bulgarian farmers and processors have undertaken substantial investment with the assistance of the Sapard Special accession programme for agriculture and rural development. programme in the pre-accession period. Furthermore, as the Bulgarian public authorities and farmers were not experienced in the implementation of the milk quota system, assistance for the establishment and management of the system was provided under the Phare Programme. The Commission will shortly decide on EU investment support under the new post-accession Bulgarian Rural Development Programme 2007‑13. The relevant support measure is ‘Modernisation of Agricultural Holdings’, and priority areas identified for support under this measure include investments for compliance with Community animal welfare standards for livestock breeding sector, and compliance with Community quality standards in the milk sector. Given the extremely small scale of many dairy farms in Bulgaria and based on the experience of other Member States with large numbers of very small holdings, it must be anticipated that there will be a reduction in the number of milk producers as the sector adapts to Community standards and milk consumption habits evolve. As regards the possibility of further supports, in general terms, regarding national funding, the Bulgarian authorities can notify new aid measures to the Commission, which will be examined in accordance with the Community guidelines for state aid in the agriculture and forestry sector 2007 to 2013 OJ C 319, 27.12.2006 . . They can also grant new aids in conformity with the legislation in force, in particular the Commission Regulation (EC) No 1857/2006 of 15 December 2006 on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the Treaty