If the corrigendum is not approved, it shall be referred back to the committee responsible which may propose an amended corrigendum or close the procedure. 5. Approved corrigenda shall be published in the same way as the text to which they refer. Rules 66(3), 67 and 68 shall apply mutatis mutandis. ANNEX I Provisions governing the application of Rule 9(1) - Transparency and Members' financial interests Article 1 1. Before speaking in Parliament or in one of its bodies or if proposed as rapporteur, any Member who has a direct financial interest in the subject under debate shall disclose this interest to the meeting orally. 2. Before Members may be validly nominated as office-holders of Parliament or one of its bodies, pursuant to Rules 12, 182 or 188(2), or participate in an official delegation, pursuant to Rule 64 or 188(2), they must have duly completed the declaration provided for in Article 2. Article 2 The Quaestors shall keep a register in which all Members shall make a personal, detailed declaration of: (a) their professional activities and any other remunerated functions or activities, (b) any support, whether financial or in terms of staff or material, additional to that provided by Parliament and granted to them in connection with their political activities by third parties, whose identity shall be disclosed. Members of Parliament shall refrain from accepting any other gift or benefit in the performance of their duties. The declarations in the register shall be made under the personal responsibility of the Member and must be updated every year. The Bureau may, from time to time, draw up a list of matters which it considers should be declared in the register. If after the appropriate request Members do not fulfil their obligation to submit a declaration pursuant to (a) and (b), the President shall remind them once again to submit the declaration within two months. If the declaration has not been submitted within the time limit, the names of the Members concerned together with an indication of the infringement shall be published in the minutes of the first day of each part-session after expiry of the time limit. If the Members concerned continue to refuse to submit the declaration after the infringement has been published the President shall take action in accordance with Rule 147 to suspend them. Chairs of groupings of Members, both intergroups and other unofficial groupings of Members, shall be required to declare any support, whether in cash or kind (e.g. secretarial assistance), which if offered to Members as individuals would have to be declared under this Article. The Quaestors shall be responsible for keeping a register and drawing up detailed rules for the declaration of outside support by such groupings. Article 3 The register shall be open to the public for inspection. The register may be open to the public for inspection electronically. Article 4 Pending the introduction of a statute for Members of the European Parliament to replace the various national rules, Members shall be subject to the obligations imposed on them by the legislation of the Member State