Answer given by Ms Kuneva on behalf of the Commission (8 November 2007) The Commission considers that a loan guarantee is not negative per se, and can even be a useful tool for disadvantaged consumers who would otherwise be deprived of any access to credit. Preventing citizens from offering their guarantee to their relatives or friends if they want to, cannot be envisaged either. The initial proposal for a Consumer Credit Directive adopted by the Commission in 2002 COM(2002)443 final. applied to both credit and surety agreements, and foresaw a list of information requirements to be contained in surety agreements. It also provided rules concerning the performance of surety agreements and the rights of guarantors. This issue was extensively discussed with stakeholders, and it appeared from the debates that such provisions would be easy to circumvent (as creditors might encourage the guarantor to sign as a co-debtor) and that they would interfere with national civil law under a very specific angle which does not justify such broad requirements. Moreover, this issue hardly has any cross-border dimension. Therefore, the Commission has decided not to regulate loan guarantees in its modified proposal of 2005 for a Consumer Credit Directive COM(2005)483 final/2. . Avoiding the difficulties mentioned by the Honourable Member should be ensured by adequate national legislation on guarantee contracts as well as by adapted consumer education schemes at national level. The Commission recognises the importance of the education of consumers in financial matters to avoid cases such as those described by the Honourable Member, where people are not fully aware of the consequences of signing a ‘guarantee’ for other persons. The Commission will come forward with a communication on financial education before the end of 2007 to raise awareness of the need to increase consumers' level of financial education, to promote the provision of high-quality financial education in the EU, and to provide some practical facilitating tools to help achieving these goals.