Question for written answer E-010722/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Marc Tarabella (S&D) (21 November 2011) Subject: Trade in eggs from hens reared in unenriched cages Although the European legislator clearly expressed a wish in 1999 to see the Member States ensure that the trade in eggs from hens reared in unenriched cages would be banned from 1 January 2012, producers are forced to acknowledge that, according to estimates currently available, there will still be, on that date, a significant quantity of eggs that do not comply with the rules (almost 20 % of EU production), which come from a small minority of Member States. I am therefore concerned by the latest statements from Commissioner Dalli and by the measures he intends to take vis-à-vis the countries which are slow in bringing their facilities into line. While the Commission’s plans to send experts to the Member States concerned and, on the basis of the results obtained, launch infringement proceedings are to be welcomed, they are nevertheless unacceptable. It would take years to ensure compliance with the requirements of the directive in the whole of the European Union. The failure to apply this ban would have a major impact right across the EU. It would be harmful and unfair for all those farmers who, before the deadline, made significant investments to bring their production into line with the directive. Furthermore, not immediately penalising non-compliant facilities would set a dangerous precedent in terms of future deadlines, particularly in view of the forthcoming ban (2013) on using individual stalls for pregnant sows. And finally, it could undermine public confidence in EC law. I therefore call on the Commission to play its full role as guardian of the treaties and, over and above the legal means it already has at its disposal, to have the courage to force the recalcitrant Member States to do their job by insisting that their producers comply with these long-planned commitments. Given the unavoidable risk of competition being distorted, is it not the Commission’s responsibility to use all the means at its disposal to support the rapid implementation of its directive?