WRITTEN QUESTION E-1481/07 by Sophia in 't Veld (ALDE) , Alexander Alvaro (ALDE) , Baroness Sarah Ludford (ALDE) and Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert (ALDE) to the Council (21 March 2007) Subject: Use of National Security Letters (NSL) for the collection of data In March the Inspector-General of the US Department of Justice published ‘A Review of the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s use of National Security Letters’. The report found substantial and procedural shortcomings in the use of National Security Letters (NSL) for the collection of data, inaccuracies in the data files, and lack of records on the effectiveness and usefulness of the collected data. Roughly half the NSL requests concern ‘Non-US persons or organisations’. 1. Is the Council familiar with the report? 2. Does the Council know if European companies based in the US have been obliged to submit data to the FBI? Will the Council, in view of the report on data collection by the FBI, give an urgent follow up to the request of the European Parliament to investigate this? 3. Does the Council know if in the FBI operation personal data of European citizens were obtained by the FBI through US companies? If this is the case: — Have such data been shared with other services or countries? — Have European citizens been informed of the collection and use of their data? — What redress procedures are available to European citizens? 4. Can the Council clarify if and how such data have been collected at the request of European countries (i.e. in relation to the investigation of the 2005 London bombing)? 5. Does the Council agree that in view of the report, it would be appropriate to do a thorough evaluation of the PNR agreement, as requested by the European Parliament, before signing a new one? 6. Does the Council agree that in view of the report, it would be appropriate to request a more detailed explanation of the apparent discrepancies between the terms of the PNR agreement and the automated targeting system? 7. Does the Council recognise the need for a regular review of data collection in the EU, analogous to that in the US?