identification of dismissing enterprises and workers targeted for assistance, the territory concerned and its authorities and stakeholders, the impact for the redundancies as regards the local, regional or national employment, co-ordinated package of personalised services to be funded, including its compatibility with actions funded by the Structural Funds, dates on which the personalised services to affected workers were started or planned to start, procedures for consulting the social partners, management and control systems. In accordance with Commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation and recommends to the Budget Authority to approve the applications. In order to mobilise the Fund, the Commission has submitted to the Budget Authority a transfer request (DEC 45/2010) for a global amount of EUR 382.200 from the EGF reserve (40 02 43) in commitments and from the budget line "Competitiveness and innovation Framework Programme - Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme" (01 04 04) in payments to the EGF budget lines (04 05 01). The Rapporteur is pleased to observe that the Commission has identified an alternative source of payment appropriations to unused ESF Funds, in accordance with the frequent requests from the European Parliament. However, she considers that the choice made in this case (budget line dedicated to the support of entrepreneurship and innovation) is not satisfactory given the severe shortcomings that the Commission encounters when implementing the programmes on competitiveness and innovation. In a period of economic crisis these appropriations should be in fact rather increased. She invites therefore the Commission to continue in her effort to identify more appropriate budget lines for payments in the future. The IIA allows the mobilisation of the Fund within the annual ceiling of EUR 500 million. In 2010, the Budget Authority has already approved twenty-one proposals for the mobilisation of the Fund and a transfer for the Technical assistance, for a total amount of EUR 65.378.668, which added to the additional amount of EUR 16.728.338 related to the other proposals under discussion (including the present one), leaves an amount of EUR 417.892.994 available until the end of 2010. III. Procedure The Commission has presented a transfer request DEC 45/2010 of 5 November 2010 in order to enter specific commitment and payment appropriations in the 2010 budget, as required in Point 28 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006. The trilogue on the Commission's proposal for a Decision on the mobilisation of the EGF could take a simplified form (an exchange of letters), as provided for in Article 12(5) of the legal base, unless there is no agreement between the Parliament and the Council. According to an internal agreement, the Employment and Social Affairs Committee (EMPL) should be associated to the process, in order to provide constructive support and contribution to the assessment of the applications from the Fund. Following its evaluation, the EMPL committee of the European Parliament will give its view on the mobilisation of the Fund, which will be attached as letter to the present report. The Joint Declaration of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, adopted during the