on the establishment of a European Works Council or a procedure in Community-scale undertakings and Community-scale groups of undertakings for the purposes of informing and consulting employees (OJ L 254, 30.9.1994, p. 64). and 2005/56/EC Directive 2005/56/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on cross-border mergers of limited liability companies (OJ L 310, 25.11.2005, p. 1). ) should be fully preserved, and whereas, consequently, the transfer of a registered office should not result in the loss of those existing rights, G. whereas a rule requiring a company to maintain its head office and its registered office in the same Member State would run counter to the case-law of the Court of Justice on freedom of establishment and would therefore infringe EC law, 1. Requests the Commission to submit to Parliament by 31 March 2009, on the basis of Article 44 of the EC Treaty, a legislative proposal for a directive laying down measures for coordinating Member States" national legislation in order to facilitate the cross-border transfer within the Community of the registered office of a company formed in accordance with the legislation of a Member State ("14th Company Law Directive"), and requests that the proposal in question be drawn up within the framework of inter-institutional deliberations and following the detailed recommendations set out below; 2. Notes that undertakings can currently transfer their seat only either by dissolution and the establishment of a new legal entity in the Member State of destination, or by establishing a new legal entity in the Member State of destination and then merging both undertakings; further notes that this procedure involves administrative obstacles, costs and social consequences and offers no legal certainty; 3. Draws attention to the freedom of establishment that is guaranteed for undertakings under Article 48 of the EC Treaty, as interpreted by the Court of Justice Judgment in Centros , cited above. ; 4. Notes that a transfer of a company seat implies a transfer of supervision; points out that, in the context of the drafting of the 14th Company Law Directive on the cross-border transfer of registered offices, the maintenance of the existing rights of shareholders, creditors and workers must be guaranteed and the existing equilibrium in the management of the company ("corporate governance") must be preserved; 5. Proposes that reference be made in the new directive to Directive 94/45/EC and Directive 2005/56/EC, in order to guarantee the coherence and substantive nature of employee participation procedures in the application of EU company law directives; 6. Takes the view that a transfer of a company's seat must be preceded by the issuing of a transfer plan and a report explaining and justifying the legal and economic aspects and any consequences of the transfer for shareholders and employees; points out that the transfer plan and the report must be made available in good time to all those involved; 7. Emphasises the positive effects of tax competition on economic growth in the context of the Lisbon Strategy; 8. Notes that a transfer of a company seat should be tax-neutral; 9. Suggests