to cheek" as they herald a new age of more diversity, more women. He stated that what Mrs Merkel has brought to Germany, Mrs Royal can bring to France. With regard to the challenges in the Middle East, Mr Cohn-Bendit suggested that a regional conference should be organised on an issue such as water. In this way, a climate of confidence could be built on the basis of specific issues. Mr Cohn-Bendit concluded by saying to the Chancellor that "we share your opinion on Europe but we have to argue about how we're going to take it forward." Francis WURTZ (GUE/NGL, FR) mentioned that the future of the Constitution would be among the many great responsibilities which the Chancellor will have during the German Presidency. He said however "Let us beware of falling into the trap of self-congratulation." He went on to caution against making general sweeping statements about controversial issues, pointing out that "This will fuel the flames of scepticism." At this point, Mr Wurtz stated that "what we need is an open, frank, fair discussion" with all the people of Europe and he pointed out that the current problems facing the EU are not French or Dutch in origin but European. In conclusion, Mr Wurtz quoted Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels in relation to the German Presidency and the future direction of the EU, stating that "the proof of the pudding is in the eating." Nigel FARAGE (IND/DEM, GB) began by stating that "We've witnessed the beginning of a dishonest and downright dangerous German Presidency." He pointed out that the proposals in relation to the future of the Constitution are "an insult to the French and the Dutch". This, he said is "a classic example of the new phenomenon ..[..].. of EU nationalism." Mr Farage suggested that failure to allow the people of Europe to have "the freedom to determine their own future" will breed and create the very intolerance, etc. that the Chancellor referred to in her speech. He concluded by stating "for goodness sake, let the people speak." Andreas MÖLZER (ITS, AT) stated that it is the 'elevated political class' in many EU countries which is in favour of the Constitution and not the 'sovereign people'. He suggested that a return to the Constitution is not possible and that "there is a political deficit to be dealt with first." Mr Mölzer went on to say that "We don't want a Constitutional monster. What we want is co-decision on important things - on things like migration and unemployment." He stated that "What we want to do is prevent the accession of Turkey" and concluded by saying that something must be done about mass illegal immigration into the South of Europe. Hans-Peter MARTIN (NI, AT), speaking on behalf of the non-attached MEPs, said that Chancellor Merkel "deserved a great deal of respect for what you have achieved during your life". He called on Chancellor Merkel to be bold and concentrate on the democratic legitimacy of the EU. As Roman Herzog put it "Europe he said can not function without democratic