compete abroad." She insisted there was no misunderstanding between her and Commissioner Verheugen: he was not seeking changes to merger rules and was in full agreement with her policy. Active promotion of competitive practices Ms Kroes said it was not enough to stand waiting for anti-competitive behaviour to occur and then correct it. It should be tackled at source. "This is why I am planning investigations in a limited number of key sectors where competition may not be functioning as well as it might. We will do this with an open and constructive attitude." In particular, she mentioned the energy, transport and financial services sectors in this regard. The challenge for Europe was clear, she said. "Either we continue with low growth and high unemployment and see our social values eroded, or we adapt, to stimulate and promote growth of the economy, which is the foundation for our vision of society. It is time to take the bull by the horns," she concluded. Among the specific points made in response to MEPs, she insisted her aim was not to get rid of German Landesbanks, merely to prevent unfair competition, and, on the London Stock Exchange takeover, she said she would be delighted to examine the situation if the national competition authorities requested her to do so. 03.02.2005 Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs: Bureau and co-ordinators meeting open to all Members In the chair: Pervenche BERÈS (PES, FR) Press enquiries: Ralph Pine - tel. (32-2) 28 42941 e-mail: econ-press@europarl.eu.int The future of EU Cohesion Policy - sufficient funding the key A public hearing at the European Parliament on Wednesday on the future of regional policy focussed on how regional policy can contribute to the Lisbon agenda and how it must adapt following enlargement. Regional Policy Commissioner Danuta HÜBNER outlined the latest position on the financial negotiations, while two experts gave their insights. MEPs gave their views on how, over the period 2007-2013, the cohesion instruments which represent about one third of the EU budget or a total of €336.1 billion should be spent. Describing the latest developments in the negotiations on the financial perspective, Commissioner Hübner said most Member States wanted to conclude the negotiations during the Luxembourg Presidency and an overwhelming majority were also in favour of the cohesion policy as proposed by the Commission. Member States, she explained, were concerned about the method of allocating financial resources among them, the 4% cap - the rule that annual EU transfers must not exceed 4% of the recipient country's GDP (a concern particularly for the new Member States) - and the transitional arrangements for the regions phasing out from Objective 1 or phasing in to Objective 2. Commissioner Hübner also outlined the difficulties in reaching a compromise on the financial envelope for cohesion policy: "This is a major concern for me. Reaching a deal under the Luxembourg Presidency before the end of June would allow for timely adoption of the regulations and strategic guidelines and for the negotiations on strategic national reference frameworks prepared by the Member States to be completed. In