record for purposes other than criminal proceedings. Amendment 3 Proposal for a Council framework decision Recital 10 Text proposed by the Council Amendment (10) The provisions of this Framework decision establish rules on the protection of personal data transmitted between the Member States as a result of its implementation. Existing general rules on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are complemented by the rules established in this instrument. Furthermore, the 1981 Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data applies to the personal data handled on the basis of the present Framework Decision. This Framework Decision also incorporates the provisions of the Decision of 21 November 2005 on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal records 1 , which limit the use the requesting Member State can make of information asked for. It supplements them with specific rules applying where the Member State of the person's nationality forward conviction information transmitted to it by the convicting Member State. (10) The provisions of this Framework decision establish rules on the protection of personal data transmitted between the Member States as a result of its implementation. Existing general rules on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are complemented by the rules established in this instrument , in particular the basic principles set out in Article 9 . Furthermore, the 1981 Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of Personal Data applies to the personal data handled on the basis of the present Framework Decision. This Framework Decision also incorporates the provisions of the Decision of 21 November 2005 on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal records, which limit the use the requesting Member State can make of information asked for. It supplements them with specific rules applying where the Member State of the person's nationality forward conviction information transmitted to it by the convicting Member State. Justification The Framework Decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (which should also apply to this act as a general guideline) is still awaiting adoption. For this reason, mention should be made of a general set of data-protection principles which should be observed whenever data are being gathered, processed and transmitted under this Framework Decision. Amendment 4 Proposal for a decision Recital 10 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment (10a) In this context the adoption of the framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of p o lice and judicial cooperation in criminal matters is of paramount importance in order to provide for an adequate level of data protection, including for the processing of personal data at national level. Amendment 5 Proposal for a Council framework decision Recital 12 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment (12a) Knowledge concerning the existence of convictions and of the prohibitions