market issues - Towards an EU Defence Equipment Policy Doc.: A5-0342/2003 Procedure : Own-initiative report Debate : 22.10.2003 The EU needs to develop its own military capabilities if it wants to ensure the credibility of its foreign and defence policy objectives. In a non-binding resolution tabled for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, rapporteur Luis QUEIRO (UEN, P) calls for the strengthening and rationalisation of the European arms industry. The EU Member States must therefore make a commitment to military expenditure over a period corresponding to their long-term defence obligations. Mr Queiro calls for the development of a European defence equipment industry which is competitive and viable and for a research and development programme to improve the EU's defence capabilities. Public defence spending by the Member States should be used more effectively and should avoid overlapping. Equally important are intra-European cooperation and the principle of Community preference. This does not mean, however, the exclusion of cooperation with third countries or the buying of defence equipment outside Europe, where supply proposals are more attractive economically than those available within the EU and where such purchases are complementary to the realisation of a European project. The rapporteur calls for the progressive establishment of a European armaments market and for common rules on this issue. Controls on intra-Community transfers of defence equipment should be reduced, administrative procedures should be simplified and national licence systems should be approximated. At the same time the export controls at the EU's external borders should be strengthened further. Internal Market More compensation for road accident victims Willi ROTHLEY (PES, D) Report on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 72/166/EEC, 84/5/EEC, 88/357/EEC, 90/232/EEC and Directive 2000/26/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles ( COM(2002) 244 – C5-0269/2002 – 2002/0124(COD)) Doc.: A5-0346/2003 Procedure : Co-decision (1st reading) Debate : 21.10.2003 In tabling a number of amendments at first reading to a draft directive amending the rules on civil liability insurance for drivers of motor vehicles, Willy ROTHLEY (PES, D) on behalf of the Legal Affairs Committee is seeking to increase the level of insurance cover required. The draft legislation being proposed by the European Commission is designed to amend the existing directives on motor insurance which are 20 years old. The Commission is proposing a minimum cover of €1 million per victim in the case of personal injury and €500,000 per claim in the case of damage to property. The committee is seeking to increase these figures to €10 million and €5 million respectively but in both cases these amounts would be per accident. MEPs argue that €1 million per victim in the case of personal injury is not enough if people have been very seriously injured. At the same time, to multiply this by a number of victims could jeopardise the finances of insurance companies. The figure of €10 million is therefore seen as a satisfactory compromise for all sides.