Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (18 October 2010) As regards official controls on food, within the EU and for import, there is a comprehensive body of legislation to ensure that food is safe and wholesome. In particular, Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety: OJ L 31, 1.2.2002. and Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules: OJ L 165, 30.4.2004, pp. 1–141. are the two main tools in order to achieve this objective. Member States are responsible for the enforcement of EU feed and food law and verify, through the organisation of official controls, that the relevant requirements thereof are fulfilled by business operators at all stages of production, processing and distribution. These requirements include also food labelling and other forms of consumer information in order to guarantee fair practices in food trade and, at the same time, protecting consumer interests. Concerning counterfeiting and misleading origin labelling, the Commission proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food information to consumers COM(2008)40 final. sets out criteria aiming at ensuring that consumers are not misled by deceptive voluntary indications of origin or provenance. In particular, the proposal requires that when information on food origin is given voluntarily, the country of origin or place of provenance of primary ingredients should be provided when those ingredients originate from a different place than the finished product. The Commission believes that a legal framework for voluntary origin labelling is an adequate tool to ensure a level playing field for operators and to improve consumer understanding of origin indications. However, the Commission acknowledges that there is a recurrent demand for mandatory origin labelling, with particular emphasis to certain basic primary foodstuffs. The issue of compulsory labelling is currently being considered in the framework of the follow-up to the communication from the Commission on agricultural product quality policy COM(2009)234 final. , and also in the context of the discussions on the Commission proposal on the provision of food information to consumers.