Joint answer given by Ms Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-5163/09 , E-5165/09 (14 January 2010) The EU‑Korea Agreement contains a set of ambitious and comprehensive commitments in the field of sustainable development and civil society involvement. In relation to labour, the Agreement commits both parties to the core labour standards of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the wider ILO Decent Work agenda. Specifically, the parties commit to implement in their law and practice ILO core labour standards, to effectively implement those ILO Conventions that have been ratified and to make continued and sustained efforts to ratify all ‘up-to-date’ ILO Conventions. As regards the environment, there is a commitment to effectively implement those multilateral environmental agreements of which they are party. These represent the strongest commitments on ILO Conventions and Multilateral Environment Agreements included so far in any Free Trade Agreement. To ensure the effective implementation of these commitments, the Agreement sets up a strong framework for cooperation and dialogue on sustainable development issues, and thus allows for strengthened engagement with Korea on labour and environment issues. An important aspect of this framework is the involvement of civil society, including business, trade unions and environmental non-governmental organisations (NGOs), to review the implementation of the labour and environment-related commitments of the Agreement. The Commission intends to make full use of the instruments provided by this Agreement to make progress with Korea on sustainable development issues. The EU‑Korea FTA calls for the establishment of mechanisms of implementation and enforcement at inter-governmental level and with the involvement of civil society. The intergovernmental structure provides for domestic contact points by each party and the establishment of a Committee on Trade and Sustainable Development, consisting of senior officials from both the EU and Korea. The objective of the Trade and Sustainable Development Committee is to oversee the effective implementation of the Trade and Sustainable Development Chapter. Either party may request consultations to solve a matter relating to the implementation of the Chapter. Furthermore, either party can convene an independent Panel of Experts to examine and present a report on recommendation on how to solve the matter. The Committee on Trade and Sustainable Development will monitor and secure the effective implementation of the Panel’s recommendation. The panel report will be made publicly available and subject to review by the Domestic Advisory Groups. Civil Society involvement will be ensured in relation to the implementation and the enforcement of the Chapter on trade and sustainable development. Each side will establish a Domestic Advisory Group on Sustainable Development (environment and labour). The Advisory Group will consist of independent representative organisations of civil society in a balanced representation of environment, labour and business organisations as well as other relevant stakeholders. The Advisory Group will be advising on the implementation of this Chapter and the parties can seek their advice. The Trade and Sustainable Development Committee can also seek the advice of relevant international organisations, such as the International Labour Organisation or Multilateral Environment Agreements. The members of the Domestic Advisory Group(s) from both EU and Korea will