Answer given by Ms Geoghegan-Quinn on behalf of the Commission (18 March 2011) The Commission is committed to the achievement of substantial progress on simplification. This progress is necessary to make the European Research Programmes more attractive for excellent researchers and innovative enterprises. In April 2010, the Commission adopted a Communication on simplifying the implementation of the research programmes COM(2010)187 final. . The options presented there initiated a broad interinstitutional debate. The Parliament, the Council and many other stakeholders largely welcomed the suggestions made by the Commission. As regards the Parliament, the Commission is carefully studying the ‘Report on simplifying the implementation of the Research Framework Programmes’ of October 2010 (rapporteur Maria da Graça Carvalho). The report explicitly highlights that any simplification process should be carefully deployed within the 7th Framework Programme for research and technological development (FP7, 2007‑13) in order to maintain stability, consistency and legal certainty. Based on these considerations, equally endorsed by the majority of stakeholders, far-reaching simplification should be introduced in the rules governing the period after 2013. However, overall consensus was achieved on a number of short-term measures that could be adopted within the current legal framework. These short-term measures were put in place by a Commission Decision adopted on 24 January 2011 C(2011)174 final. . These include the wider acceptance of the usual accounting practices for average personnel costs, a flat-rate option for SME owners, as well as a mechanism for the harmonisation on the internal interpretation of the framework programme rules. The Commission is continuing to work to improve other aspects of the implementation of the framework programme. This includes certain recommendations contained in the Parliament's resolution, such as the acceleration of the granting and payment processes, the streamlining of guidance documents and the IT tools for participants. A number of other recommendations can be accommodated by the revision of the Financial Regulation. This concerns notably the issue of the interest on pre-financing. The Commission proposal COM(2010)815 final. is now in the interinstitutional legislative process and the entry into force of the revised Financial Regulation is foreseen for January 2012. Other recommendations put forward by the Parliament, in particular those related to audits, are directly linked to the outcome of the interinstitutional discussion on the proposals by the Commission on the Tolerable Risk of Error (TRE). Simplification will be one of the basic principles for the Commission proposal on the Rules for Participation of the new common strategic framework for research and innovation. The legislative package that the Commission plans to adopt by the end of 2011 will give due consideration to all recommendations made in the Parliament report on simplification.