other. Socialist Group leader Martin SCHULTZ (DE) said "we are all agreed on what is needed". And pointing to the destruction in the region, he said it was unacceptable "that what EU money builds is destroyed unnecessarily". It was essential, he said, that violence should stop - so why do negotiations always fail? His answer was that, on both sides, "there are those who have an interest in continuing the violence" . Above all, "the radicals need this conflict to legitimise their existence, and this has been the case for decades". It is up to Europe to tell them they cannot achieve their goals this way. The situation in Gaza is a humanitarian disaster which "no amount of condemnation will solve", stressed Graham WATSON (ALDE, UK). Gaza is "besieged", and the trapping of 1.5 million people there, without power, water or sewage treatment, "has made matters worse than at any point since 1967", he continued, adding that he believed that a further 11,000 Palestinians are being held in Israeli jails. On strategy, "the EU follows the USA", even though EU investments in Palestinian infrastructure "are being destroyed by the Israeli army using American weapons", he said. Mr Watson welcomed the informal truce reached at lunchtime on Monday, and wished Egypt every success with its mediation efforts. But he stressed that the cycle of deaths would not be broken by further violence - it would continue so long as Israel seeks to "destabilise every interlocutor, and Hamas continues to fire rockets, knowing that the response will be disproportionate", he said. "As a democracy, Israel has a duty to be more just than its disposable power implies" stressed Mr Watson, urging all parties to look again urgently at the issues and to find a way to live together. "The reality is that every day, innocent lives are lost, families lose members, and the forces of moderation are driven further apart" said Brian CROWLEY (UEN, IE). The cynicism of Israel's attempt to "starve people into submission" is matched by that of the brutal killing of 8 people in a school, he continued, urging that every species of terrorism - "official, state, or state or state-sponsored" need to be fought with respect for all human life. A two-state solution will work only if both states are viable, he stressed, adding that "when they are recognised, then their leaders must be recognised too". "What we need is not dialogue, but negotiations, underlined Daniel COHN-BENDIT (Greens/EFA, DE), agreeing with Mr Watson that what the EU needs is its own strategy. "Negotiations" worthy of the name would begin by organizing a ceasefire, and then aid supplies, he said, adding that Israel should be told that unless it immediately halts the building of settlements, then "the EU will no longer support you". The EU needs to convey the political message that "this cannot go on" - the colonial policy of Israel is a danger to the state of Israel, and Palestinian attacks work against Palestinian interests", he concluded. Francis WURTZ (GUE/NGL, FR) said: "We had scarcely decided on this Solemn