C 180E, 26.6.2001, p. 1. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 3 (3) It is necessary to determine the distribution of the research appropriations between the two sectors concerned. (3) It is necessary to determine the distribution of the research appropriations between the two sectors concerned. This ratio can be revised at the time of enlargement in order to take into account the importance of these two sectors in some Central and Eastern European countries. Justification The rapporteur reminds that the Community’s coal production will double and steel production will increase by a third as a result of enlargement. Therefore, the current ratio of funds allocated to coal and steel research (27.2% and 72.8%, respectively) may have to revised. Amendment 2 Recital 9 (9) This Decision respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union as general principles of Community law, (9) This Decision respects all the fundamental rights and observes all the principles recognised in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union as general principles of Community law, Justification The European Parliament stresses in particular that all fundamental rights and principles recognised by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union must be reflected as general principles of Community law in the Research Fund as elsewhere. Amendment 3 Article 2, paragraph 2 2. The Council , acting by qualified majority as provided for under Article 205 of the EC Treaty on a proposal from the Commission after receiving the Opinion of the European Parliament, shall adopt multiannual financial guidelines for management of the assets. 1. The Council and the European Parliament shall adopt the multiannual financial guidelines for the management of these assets , in accordance with Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community . Justification It is hard to see how the Parliament could give discharge to the Coal and Steel Research Fund if it has no say on its financial management. The only way to correct this anomaly would be to bring the current legislative act under the co-decision procedure, whereby the Parliament would decide on the multiannual financial guidelines on equal terms with the Council. Amendment 4 Article 4, paragraph 1 1. Net revenue from the investments provided for under Article 2 shall constitute revenue in the budget of the European Communities. This revenue shall be earmarked for a specific purpose, namely financing research projects in the sectors related to the coal and steel industry not covered by the programme. It shall form the Coal and Steel Research Fund and shall be managed by the Commission. 1. Net revenue from the investments provided for under Article 2 shall constitute revenue in the budget of the European Communities. This revenue shall be fully budgetised by creating a budget line in the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, following the principles of budgetary specificity. The revenue shall cover all expenditure of the Coal and Steel Research Fund, including administrative costs of coal and steel research. The revenue shall be used