Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (4 June 2009) The Commission is aware of the evidence on the effect of trans fatty acids on health. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) has adopted a scientific opinion EFSA: Opinion of the Scientific Panel on Dietetic Products, Nutrition and Allergies (NDA) related to the presence of trans fatty acids in foods and the effect on human health of the consumption of trans fatty acids, adopted 8 July 2004. on the presence of trans fatty acids in foods and the effect on human health of the consumption of trans fatty acids which, for the Commission, constitutes the current authoritative evaluation of the relevant scientific data on this issue. For the moment the Commission does not intend to submit a proposal that would prohibit industrially-produced trans fatty acids. The Commission is committed to using the appropriate means available to promote consumer protection and health. It is, thus, encouraging initiatives that can help prevent the development of cardiovascular disease in Europe, for which trans fatty acid consumption is one of the risk factors along with overall fat intake and the intake of saturated fatty acids. The Commission believes that dietary habits depend on many different factors and influencing them is a very complex exercise that requires a variety of actions. These should be proportionate and take into account the respective competence and responsibilities of the European Community and its Member States. In that framework the Commission is both encouraging the adoption of self-regulatory measures and considering regulatory ones. The extent of the latter would certainly be influenced by the effectiveness of the former. In the case of self-regulatory action, there are commitments in the EU Platform for Action on Diet, Physical Activity and Health that concern the reformulation of products to reduce the content of industrially produced trans fatty acids. It is expected that these commitments will contribute to the reduction of the intake of trans fatty acids in Europe. A study Johansson Lars, et al.: Trans fatty acids in the Norwegian diet. Tidsskr Nor Lægeforen No 6, 2006; 126: 760‑3. indicates that voluntary means undertaken in a European country resulted in a substantial reduction of trans fatty acids consumption in that country. The EFSA has stated EFSA: the setting of nutrient profiles for foods bearing nutrition and health claims pursuant to Article 4 of the Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006, scientific opinion of the Panel on Dietetic Products, Nutrition and Allergies, adopted on 31 January 2008. that evidence from a number of countries indicates that the intake of trans fatty acids in the EU has decreased considerably over recent years, owing to reformulation of food products, and that more recent reported intakes in some Member States are close to the recommended maximum intake levels of 1 or 2 % of energy intake. At the moment the Commission does not believe that regulatory action is required. The Commission has put forward a proposal on food information to consumers COM(2008)40 final. which proposes rules for nutrition labelling. It is proposing that the information on trans