day of the part-session following their adoption. TITLE XIII MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Rule 203 Unfinished business At the end of the last part-session before elections, all Parliament's unfinished business shall be deemed to have lapsed, subject to the provisions of the second paragraph. At the beginning of each parliamentary term, the Conference of Presidents shall take a decision on reasoned requests from parliamentary committees and other institutions to resume or continue the consideration of such matters. These provisions shall not apply to petitions and communications that do not require a decision. Rule 204 Arrangement of annexes The annexes to these Rules of Procedure shall be arranged under the following three headings: (a) implementing provisions for procedures under these Rules, adopted by a majority of the votes cast (Annex VI); (b) provisions adopted in implementation of specific terms of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the procedures and majority rules laid down therein (Annexes I, II, III, IV, V, VII(A) and (C), IX and XV); (c) interinstitutional agreements or other provisions adopted pursuant to the Treaties which are applicable within Parliament or which have a bearing on its operation. Decisions to annex such provisions to the Rules of Procedure shall be taken by Parliament by a majority of the votes cast, on a proposal from its committee responsible (Annexes VII(B), VIII, X, XI, XII, XIII, XIV and XVI). ANNEX I Provisions governing the application of Rule 9(1) - Transparency and Members' financial interests Article 1 1. Before speaking in Parliament or in one of its bodies or if proposed as rapporteur, any Member who has a direct financial interest in the subject under debate shall disclose this interest to the meeting orally. 2. Before a Member may be validly nominated as an office-holder of Parliament or one of its bodies, pursuant to Rules 12, 182 or 188(2), or participate in an official delegation, pursuant to Rule 64 or 188(2), he must have duly completed the declaration provided for in Article 2. Article 2 The Quaestors shall keep a register in which each Member shall make a personal, detailed declaration of: (a) his professional activities and any other remunerated functions or activities, (b) any support, whether financial or in terms of staff or material, additional to that provided by Parliament and granted to the Member in connection with his political activities by third parties, whose identity shall be disclosed. Members of Parliament shall refrain from accepting any other gift or benefit in the performance of their duties. The declarations in the register shall be made under the personal responsibility of the Member and must be updated every year. The Bureau may, from time to time, draw up a list of matters which it considers should be declared in the register. If after the appropriate request a Member does not fulfil his obligation to submit a declaration pursuant to (a) and (b), the President shall remind him once again to submit the declaration within two months. If the declaration has not been submitted within the time limit, the name of the Member together with