that manufacturers should supply only to surgeons who observe the European register; an independent monitoring body should monitor this and the results of the monitoring should be published; 24. Also calls for a sound certification procedure for practitioners, to reduce the damage to health from incorrect operations; 25. Considers that, together with the liability on the part of manufacturers of implants, guarantees for patients in respect of surgeons and clinics should be laid down; 26. Suggests that the cost of breast implants should include the following - pre-meeting with the surgeon involved; clear informed discussion of the implications of having implants, as well as the alternatives, with a properly trained and accredited independent counsellor with no financial interest in the patient's eventual decision; a cooling-off period of no less than four to six weeks; detailed pre-implant case history; post-implant counselling and periodic review; 27. Believes that there must be comprehensive international lists of specialist medical practitioners in plastic surgery; and that this specialist area must, moreover, extend to breast implant surgery, and include expertise in the removal of old and defective implants; 28. Urges the Member States to carry out thorough and frequent inspections particularly in the case of private clinics that perform breast implant operations, using the national/regional public health inspectors; 29. Calls on the Commission to undertake a review of national measures adopted in relation to this Communication within three years; 30. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, Commission and the parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT There is a good deal to welcome in this Commission Communication on Community and National Measures in Relation to Breast Implants but it is regrettable that the document itself has only advisory status for member states. The implantation of silicone-gel breast implants is an important topic, all the more so as the number of implants carried out in member states is apparently increasing. The need to underline its importance is highlighted by the fact that at the time of writing this report only seven of the member states (Belgium, France, Germany, Denmark, Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom) have responded to a Commission Report on National Measures Adopted by Member States Related to Breast Implants. The origins of this Communication lie in lobbying by self-help groups of women who claimed to be suffering adverse effects from silicone-gel breast implants. In 1998, petitions were introduced to the European Parliament calling for a ban on the use of silicone-gel breast implants. In the light of these petitions, the European Parliament ordered a STOA research study on "Health risks posed by silicone implants in general with special attention to breast implants". Health risks posed by silicone implants in general, with special attention to breast implants. PE 168.396/Fin.St/rew; http://www.europarl.eu.int/stoa/publi/pdf/99-20-02_en.pdf. Silicone implants were used for years before there was regulation or surveillance of their use. Health concerns about the use of silicone–gel breast implants surfaced in the US and Canada in the 1980s, spreading to Europe in the 1990s. Since 1992 in the US silicone breast implants are only available for women with