Answer given by Mr De Gucht on behalf of the Commission (21 September 2009) In response to widespread violations of human rights and disregard of democratic institutions and the rule of law, the EU decided in 2002 to apply Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement and suspend development assistance to the Government of Zimbabwe. In applying Article 96, the EU’s top priority was to stop its support to a regime committing human rights violations. Since then, however, the Commission has continued to provide substantial and sustained support targeted directly at meeting the basic needs of the population of Zimbabwe, particularly through humanitarian aid, food aid and various interventions in the sectors of health, water and sanitation, food security, education and human rights. Local communities, victims of torture and civil society in general have benefited from the Commission's assistance. The support provided by the Commission to the population of Zimbabwe has doubled compared to 2002 levels, and now reaches EUR 100 million annually. The total amount committed since 2002 has reached more than EUR 570 million. Furthermore, the European Union is the main donor providing support to the vulnerable population of Zimbabwe. The Commission continues to follow the situation in Zimbabwe very closely, and has development and humanitarian staff on the ground. This enables the EC to quickly identify and respond to new emergency needs among the population, for example during the recent severe cholera epidemic, when EUR 5.5 million in additional funding was mobilised to support emergency interventions by non-governmental organisations and United Nations agencies. Following the formation of the Government of National Unity in February 2009, the EU stands ready to support the economic and social recovery of Zimbabwe once the Government of Zimbabwe shows tangible signs of respecting human rights and the rule of law and practicing sound public financial management. Such support could include short-, medium- and long-term reconstruction measures targeting key economic and social sectors, including agriculture and food security, health, water and sanitation, education, energy and support to civil society. In this respect, the EU is hoping for a progressive normalisation of relations, allowing for a review of the measures adopted in 2002 as well as for a progressive resumption of full cooperation.