Brussels, 7 January 2005, COM(2004)858 final and SEC(2004)1725. . According to the act the competent authorities of two or more Member States may, by mutual agreement, set up a joint investigation team for a specific purpose and a limited period, which may be extended by mutual consent, to carry out criminal investigations in one or more of the Member States setting up the team. 3. The Commission continuously stressed that Member States should fully use the potential of Europol. The role of Europol is particularly important. It can provide access to intelligence databases and offers operational support through the exchange of intelligence and expert advice. It shall facilitate the exchange of information and provide operational analysis for Member States and generate strategic reports on the basis of the information and intelligence supplied by Member States, generated by Europol or gathered from other sources. However, the information flow from Member States to Europol is small compared to the number of investigations. It would appear that investigations are based more on spontaneous bi- or multilateral cooperation and the regular structures and mechanisms are seen as options. Therefore, Member States should ensure that national law enforcement agencies regularly involve Europol in the exchange of information, in joint operations and joint investigative teams. A clear Europol competence for the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, in addition to and independent from the trafficking context, may also be considered. 4. In the abovementioned Communication the Commission already announced that it will, when evaluating the implementation of the Council Framework Decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, focus in its evaluation report on the need for further strengthening of the legal framework specifically addressing coercion of children into prostitution or engaging in sexual activities with child prostitutes, and where necessary submit appropriate proposals. Furthermore, the Commission will continue to financially promote projects against child prostitution, for instance within the framework of funding programmes such as Daphne II. The Commission is also supporting children’s rights organisations, mainly under the Daphne II Programme, to fight against violence and abuse of children more generally. This support will be strengthened in the context of the implementation of the Commission’s communication on the rights of the child which will, inter alia , aim to set up a structure to allow policy development and concrete EC actions in the area of the rights of the child. 5. The Commission is currently working on the possibility to establish one Europe-wide common telephone number for children's helplines and another one for missing or sexually exploited children. The forthcoming related Decision will reserve common European telephone numbers for services of social importance. The legal basis of the Commission Decision does not extend to regulating tariff aspects but national regulatory authorities for electronic communications have the right to ensure that calls to these numbers are free to the caller. It is anticipated that the decision could be adopted in the second half of 2006. 6. Member States should already prosecute child pornography on the Internet as far as they are obliged to do