food imported into the EU could evade the new rules. However, food imports are already checked by the EU for pesticide residue levels. It is not in the interest of importers to risk falling foul of such inspections. Using pesticides in forests, farms and parks: everyday practice The second phase in the life-cycle, the way in which pesticides are used in everyday life (e.g. in farming, forestry and parks), is not yet governed by EU law. To fill this gap, a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides has been put forward with the aim of reducing the impact of pesticides used and promoting non-chemical alternatives to pesticides. The EP report on this legislation has been drafted by Christa Klaß (EPP-ED, DE). A key feature of the directive is Integrated Pest Management: the promotion of non-chemical pest control methods such as crop rotation, to be used wherever possible as alternatives to pesticides. In addition, Member States must adopt National Action Plans for reducing "risks and impacts" of pesticide use on human health and the environment, including timetables and targets for use reduction. MEPs dropped their demand for a specific reduction target of 50% for chemical substances of particular concern, to help secure a deal with the Council. Aerial crop spraying will in general be banned, albeit with exceptions subject to approval by the authorities. No spraying will be allowed in close proximity to residential areas. Member States must take measures to protect the aquatic environment and drinking water supplies from the impact of pesticides. These will include "buffer zones" around bodies of water, "safeguard zones" for any surface and groundwater used for drinking water and protected areas along roads and railways. Parliament and Council also agreed to minimise or prohibit pesticide use in specific areas used by the general public or by vulnerable groups, such as parks, public gardens, sports and recreation grounds, school grounds and playgrounds and in the close vicinity of healthcare facilities. New rules are also introduced on the training of pesticide users and salespeople, on handling and storage, on information and awareness-raising and on the inspection of pesticides application equipment. The directive must be implemented by the Member States by early 2011. Next steps The compromise legislative texts must still be approved by an absolute majority of MEPs - i.e. 393 votes in favour - at next week's plenary vote, as they are being adopted at second reading under the co-decision procedure. If approved by the EP, they must then be endorsed by the Council, a formality since they were agreed by the Council's negotiators. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 BKG DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 BKG DOC XML V0//EN