while being transported by another means of transport. Transport operations carried out during a ‘collection or distribution round’ type of journey (journey-type 3) For this type of journey, with several loading and/or unloading points, it is practically impossible to ask the transport operators to describe the basic transport operations. For these journeys, when identified as such, a single, notional, basic transport operation is generally generated on the basis of the information on the journey. Each Member State shall inform the Commission of its definition of this type of journey and explain the simplifying assumptions it is obliged to apply when collecting data on the corresponding transport operations. Part 2 Methodological appendix Laden journeys and basic transport operations Depending on the Member State concerned, information on transport is collected on the basis of: – either a description of each basic goods transport operation (with additional details on unladen journeys), – or a description of the journeys made by the vehicle in carrying out these basic goods transport operations. In the great majority of cases, when a laden journey is made this represents one basic transport operation only with: – a single type of goods loaded (by reference to the classification of goods in use, in this case the 20 divisions derived from the NST classification) NST: Uniform nomenclature of goods for transport statistics. , – a single point of loading for the goods, – a single point of unloading for the goods. In this case the two methods used are completely equivalent, and the information collected by either method describes both: – the transport of the goods (all the basic goods transport operations), – the journeys made by the vehicles carrying out this transport, with details of vehicle capacities and utilisation of these capacities (laden journey with utilisation coefficient; unladen journey). Under this Regulation, the transport of goods and the journeys made by the vehicles must both be described, but it is undesirable to impose on the transport operators an excessive increase in the burden of statistics by asking them to describe in detail the transport of goods and the vehicle journeys. Accordingly, the NSOs in the Member States, when coding the questionnaires, must reconstitute the data which are not explicitly required from the transport operators from the data which they collect on the basis of either the ‘basic transport operation’, or the ‘vehicle journey’. The problem will arise when several basic transport operations are carried out in the course of one laden journey, which may be because: – there are several points of loading and/or unloading of the goods (but limited in number, otherwise these would be pick-up or distribution rounds, which require special treatment). In this case, these various loading and/or unloading points are recorded, in order to calculate directly the tonne-kilometre effected during the journey, and the statistical office can reconstitute the basic transport operations; and/or – there are several different types of goods transported during the laden journey, a fact which in general is not recorded in the statistics, since only the type of goods (single or main) is