Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (29 March 2010) From its creation in February 2008 until 1 March 2010, the EULEX The European Union Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo. operation has spent a total of EUR 145 million, financed from the General Budget of the EU. The present Council Joint Action expires on 14 June 2010. In June 2009, the estimated sum needed to fund EULEX for the full period from the date of its creation until then was reviewed and a total of EUR 265 million agreed by the Council. Of this, EUR 235 million have been committed, covering the EUR 145 million already consumed and leaving EUR 90 million currently available. Present estimates are of monthly costs of up to EUR 15 million, provided recruitment drives are successful. The deployment of EULEX has considerably contributed to the stability of Kosovo Under UNSCR 1244/99. as well as of the broader region. EULEX has reopened the court house in Mitrovica which had been closed before. The deployment of customs officers at the gates in northern Kosovo has increased customs revenues and decreased smuggling. Prosecutors have investigated a range of crimes from war crime cases to organised crime. EULEX judges have pronounced a number of verdicts. Furthermore, by mentoring, monitoring and advising local authorities, EULEX has contributed to approximation of practices and structures of local institutions to European standards, and thus enabling local authorities to start improving their track record in the fight against crimes and corruption. The progress and stability achieved in the past year is to the benefit of EU tax payers, as conflict and instability are considerably more costly. The achievements of EULEX in assisting judicial and law enforcement agencies and in promoting rule of law reforms were also ‘noted with satisfaction’ by the Council Conclusions on The Common Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) of 17 November 2009. As the Commission reported in its recent progress report on Kosovo, corruption remains a major challenge that Kosovo authorities are facing. Political will of Kosovo leaders is necessary to tackle this issue effectively. In this context, a continued and constructive cooperation on the part of the Kosovo authorities with EULEX and the Commission project in this area is of particular importance.