9 November 2005 concerning FSA and FOS - Commission's response to PETI's request for information (CM) same as above - Speech given by EMAG representatives at the PETI meeting of 13 September 2005 and PowerPoint slides - EMAG response of 22 June 2005 to Commission statement - Various letters from the chairman of PETI to the petitioner informing him about the progress made in the treatment of his petition - e-mail exchanges between PETI secretariat and petitioners 3.) Petition 0775/2005 (Manfred Bischof) - Petition - Summary of petition and recommendations from the PETI secretariat (SIR document) - Various letters from the chairman of PETI to the petitioner informing him about the progress made in the treatment of his petition 4.) Petition 0067/2006 (Franz-Josef Groemping) - Petition - Letter to the petitioner acknowledging receipt of his petition. 5.) Request to set up a Committee of Inquiry - Background note of PETI secretariat on possible request to set up a Committee of Inquiry - Various draft versions of mandate - Letter of PETI chairman to President Borrell requesting the setting-up of a Committee of Inquiry (29. September 2005) - Reply of President Borrell to the PETI chairman (13 October 2005) - List of signatures by members supporting the request to set up a Committee of Inquiry - Opinion of the Legal Service concerning the request (in FR only) - Conference of Presidents: summary of decisions at meetings of 19 December 2005 and 12 January 2006 - EP decision of 18 January on setting up a Committee of Inquiry into the collapse of the ELAS 6.) Documents relating to investigations in the UK - Report of the FSA on the review of the Regulation of the ELAS from 1 January 1999 to 8 December 2000 ("Baird Report") - Treasury Committee Report: Equitable Life and the Life Assurance Industry: An Interim Report Volume I: Report and Proceedings of the Committee (27 March 2001) - Treasury Committee Report: Equitable Life and the Life Assurance Industry: An Interim Report Volume II: Minutes of Evidence and Appendices (27 March 2001) - Treasury Committee: Regulation of Equitable Life; Minutes of Evidence (30 October 2001) - Treasury Committee: Regulation of Equitable Life; Minutes of Evidence (13 November 2001) - Treasury Committee: Restoring confidence in long-term savings: The Equitable Life Inquiry; Oral Evidence (16 March 2004) - Report of the Equitable Life Inquiry ("Penrose Report") - The UK Parliamentary Ombudsman: The prudential regulation of Equitable Life (1st report) - Memorandum to the Petitions Committee of the EP by the Office of the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman concerning the investigation into the prudential regulation of Equitable Life 7.) Other documents - Submission by ELAS to PETI concerning possible claims by society and policyholders against regulators - Various press articles 4. Information exchanges with the European Commission Information was requested from the European Commission regarding the transposition and implementation of the 3LD in the UK and other Member States. This includes the so-called implementation reports as well as the reviews of those implementation reports. In addition, the European Commission was asked to provide EQUI with