21.4.2008 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on statements by the Council and Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Luisa Morgantini on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group on the situation in Burma European Parliament resolution on the situation in Burma The European Parliament , – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the Burmese SPDC has announced that a referendum on a new constitution will be held in May 2008, with multiparty elections following in 2010, B. whereas the Burmese Government has rejected proposals made by the UN Special Envoy, Ibrahim Gambari, to ensure the free and fair conduct of the referendum, in the presence of international observers, C. whereas, since announcing the referendum, the government has issued Law No 1/2008, which denies voting rights to members of religious orders; whereas a majority of the Burmese opposition has decided to boycott the referendum, D. whereas there are still around 1800 political prisoners in Burma, including the National League for Democracy leader, Nobel Peace Prize laureate and Sakharov Prize winner, Aung San Suu Kyi, E. whereas 30% of Burma’s population, an estimated 15 million people, are subsisting below the poverty line, 1. Deplores the fact that the constitutional referendum process is devoid of any democratic legitimacy, as Burmese citizens lack all basic democratic rights that would allow them to hold an open debate on the constitutional text, amend it and subsequently freely express themselves through a referendum; 2. Condemns the rejection by the Burmese Government of the proposals made by the UN Special Envoy, Mr Ibrahim Gambari, to allow an open and inclusive campaign in the run-up to the constitutional referendum; 3. Demands from the Government of Burma guarantees that it will convene an independent election commission, compile a proper voter registration list, lift long-standing restrictions on media, allow freedom of association, expression and assembly in Burma, revoke new regulations that criminalise legitimate debate on the referendum, and agree to the presence of international observers; 4. Demands the immediate and unconditional release of political opponents of the regime and more than 1800 political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi, the leaders of the ’88 Generation Students and the leaders of the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy arrested in 2005; 5. Calls for all the casualties and missing persons from last September’s crackdown on protests by Buddhist monks and democracy activists to be accounted for and for the whereabouts of missing monks and nuns to be established; 6. Calls on the UN Secretary-General to become directly involved in key negotiations with the Burmese authorities, including through his special adviser and envoy, Ibrahim Gambari; calls on the UN Security Council to keep Burma on its agenda through regular briefings and statements; 7. Supports the efforts of the EU special envoy on Burma, Mr Piero Fassino, to promote dialogue with ASEAN countries, which have a direct interest in stability in the region; underlines the importance of continuing the search for a common position with the ASEAN countries; 8. Notes that the EU arms