out a scheme of priority ratings (1-4) to be assigned by GAD on the basis of their initial scrutiny of returns (1=top priority, 4=low priority). A further agreement was drawn up in October 1998 for the transfer of functions from the DTI to Treasury. " The staffing levels available to the prudential regulators varied, but the number of staff with direct responsibility for the Society and their grades within the civil service remained broadly constant ." (par. 39) "Interaction between prudential and CoB regulatory bodies ... (partly viewed as 'tick-box' regulators) seems to have been relatively limited in the 1980s. From 1992 there was some additional formalisation of the interaction through the mechanism known as a 'college of regulators': regular meetings between various financial services regulatory bodies, hosted and chaired by the body perceived as the lead regulator for a certain type of firm: for life insurers, this was DT." (par.26 and 29). 2.4 The unchallenged double role of Mr. RANSON Under the 1982 Insurance Companies Act the DTI was also assigned the task of considering whether an insurance company and its management (i.e. directors, appointed actuary and significant shareholders) were 'fit and proper' to assume their role. An issue of particular concern appears the role of Mr. Roy RANSON, Appointed Actuary of Equitable Life since 1982, who on 30 June 1991 became Chief Executive of the Society without relinquishing his former post. This raised the question of a possible conflict of interest negatively affecting the policyholders' interests - a problem addressed by regulators on several occasions but without any formal action being taken by them. The report details how " GAD was consulted . The Government Actuary, Christopher Daykin, advised on 17 April 1991 that he wished to discourage Ranson from holding both positions, other than on a very temporary basis ... The Society was informed by DTI on 26 April that it was considered undesirable for the same person to hold both positions ... Ranson said that the Society's in-house actuaries needed a further 12 months or so of senior management experience before assuming the role of appointed actuary. It was preferred that he should remain the appointed actuary for 12-18 months until an in-house replacement was appointed ... Daykin agreed that the temporary situation could be accepted and Burt informed DTI on 13 May that GAD were content on the basis that it was intended to be for a limited period ." (Ch.16-35 and 36). In reality, Mr. RANSON was allowed to overstay in his double role far beyond the initially allocated "transition period" of 12-18 months, finally staying on for over 6 years until his retirement in July 1997. 2.5 Alleged Regulators' shortcomings in general The Penrose report cites a number of shortcomings by UK regulators in the accomplishment of their regulatory and supervision duties which are here summarized for easier comprehension in three groups according to severity. Again, a reference to the time-frame related to the application of the First (1LD) or Third (3LD) Life Directives (i.e. before/after July 1994) should be taken into account to correctly