means of the enlarged Union 2007-2013, on the financial perspective with a view to the European Council meeting in December 2004 ( B6-0189/2004 ) . The debate closed. Vote: Minutes of 02.12.2004, Item 7.7 12 EU-Russia Summit (debate) Council and Commission statements: EU-Russia Summit Atzo Nicolaï (President-in-Office of the Council) and Benita Ferrero-Waldner (Member of the Commission) made the statements. The following spoke: José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Hannes Swoboda , on behalf of the PSE Group, Cecilia Malmström , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Bart Staes , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Bogusław Rogalski , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Anna Elzbieta Fotyga , on behalf of the UEN Group, and Ryszard Czarnecki , Non-attached Member . IN THE CHAIR: Luigi COCILOVO Vice-President The following spoke: Jacek Protasiewicz , Reino Paasilinna , Laima Liucija Andrikienė , Anna Ibrisagic , Vytautas Landsbergis and Benita Ferrero-Waldner . For technical reasons, the vote on the motions for resolutions tabled would not be taken during that part-session. The debate closed. 13 One-minute speeches on matters of political importance Pursuant to Rule 144, the following Members who wished to draw the attention of Parliament to matters of political importance spoke for one minute: Zdzisław Zbigniew Podkański , Caroline Lucas , Claude Moraes , Theresa Villiers , David Martin and Ryszard Czarnecki . 14 World Aids Day (debate) Commission statement: World Aids Day Markos Kyprianou (Member of the Commission) made the statement. The following spoke: John Bowis , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Anne Van Lancker , on behalf of the PSE Group, Holger Krahmer , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Carl Schlyter , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Vittorio Emanuele Agnoletto , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Irena Belohorská , Non-attached Member, Richard Seeber , Margrietus van den Berg , Alfonso Andria , Marie-Hélène Aubert , Anders Wijkman , María Elena Valenciano Martínez-Orozco , Othmar Karas , Inger Segelström and Markos Kyprianou . Motions for resolutions to wind up the debate tabled pursuant to Rule 103(2): - Alfonso Andria, Vittorio Prodi, Chris Davies, Holger Krahmer, Marios Matsakis, Frédérique Ries and Mojca Drčar Murko, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on World AIDS Day ( B6-0190/2004 ) , - Vittorio Emanuele Agnoletto, Ilda Figueiredo and Luisa Morgantini, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the World AIDS Day ( B6-0191/2004 ) , - Anne Van Lancker, Glenys Kinnock, Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez, Margrietus van den Berg and Karin Scheele, on behalf of the PSE Group, on HIV/AIDS (World AIDS Day) ( B6-0192/2004 ) , - Frithjof Schmidt, Marie-Hélène Aubert, Bernat Joan i Marí, Satu Hassi, Carl Schlyter and Marie Anne Isler Béguin, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on World AIDS Day ( B6-0193/2004 ) , - John Bowis, Richard Seeber, Anders Wijkman and Françoise Grossetête, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on World Aids Day ( B6-0194/2004 ) . The debate closed. Vote: Minutes of 02.12.2004, Item 7.8 15 EU citizens' passports * (debate) Report on the Commission proposal for a Council regulation