{ "context": [ [ "Arla Foods", [ "Arla Foods is an international cooperative based in Viby, Denmark, and the largest producer of dairy products in Scandinavia.", " Arla Foods was formed as the result of a merger between the Swedish dairy cooperative Arla and the Danish dairy company MD Foods on 17 April 2000." ] ], [ "Land O'Lakes", [ "Land O'Lakes, Inc. is a member-owned agricultural cooperative based in the Minneapolis-St.", " Paul suburb of Arden Hills, Minnesota, focusing on the dairy industry.", " The co-op states that it has about 3,600 direct producer-members, 1,000 member-cooperatives, and about 10,000 employees who process and distribute products for about 300,000 agricultural producers; handling 12 billion pounds of milk annually.", " It is ranked third on the National Cooperative Bank Co-op 100 list of mutuals and cooperatives.", " The co-op is one of the largest producers of butter and cheese in the United States." ] ], [ "Dairylea Cooperative Inc.", [ "Dairylea Cooperative Inc. was a dairy cooperative which was founded in 1907 as The Dairymen's League when group of dairy farmers in Orange County, New York united to increase their bargaining power.", " By the 1920s, the Cooperative's membership had increased to more than 100,000 farms.", " While based initially in Pearl River, New York, the organization was most recently headquartered in East Syracuse, New York.", " They renamed themselves after their most famous product, Dairylea Milk." ] ], [ "Co-op Kobe", [ "Co-op Kobe (Japanese: コープこうべ ), officially known as Consumer Co-operative Kobe, is a consumers' cooperative based in Kobe, Japan.", " It was founded in 1921 by Toyohiko Kagawa, and was later merged with Nada Consumer Co-operative.", " Now, with over 1.2 million members, it is the largest consumers' cooperative in the world." ] ], [ "Great River Energy", [ "Great River Energy is an electric transmission and generation cooperative in the U.S. state of Minnesota; it is the state's second largest electric utility, based on generating capacity, and the fifth largest generation and transmission cooperative in the U.S. in terms of assets.", " Great River Energy was formed in 1999 when Cooperative Power Association and United Power Association merged." ] ], [ "Banas Dairy", [ "Banas Dairy (Gujarati: બનાસ ડેરી )(Banaskantha District Cooperative Milk Federation, Palanpur) is a dairy based in Banaskantha district of Gujarat, India and is Asia’s No.1 in milk production.", " It was founded in 1969 according to the 1961 rule of the National Dairy Development Board under Operation Flood.", " Galbabhai Nanjibhai Patel played an important role in the foundation of the dairy.", " It is headquartered at Palanpur." ] ], [ "Iowa, Chicago and Eastern Railroad", [ "The Iowa, Chicago and Eastern Railroad (IC&E) (reporting mark ICE) was a Class II railroad operating in the north central United States.", " It has been controlled by the Canadian Pacific Railway and operated as a part of its system since October 30, 2008.", " Formerly, the IC&E was jointly owned with the Dakota, Minnesota and Eastern Railroad by Cedar American Rail Holdings (CARH), making the combined system