and cultural change, eliminate stereotypes and promote equality, P. whereas the stereotypes which still exist with regard to the educational and occupational options available to women help to preserve inequalities, Q. whereas sectoral and occupational segregation by gender is not diminishing, but actually rising in some countries, R . w hereas family law (notably marriage and divorce law) often puts women in a weaker legal and financial position, and whereas courts sometimes add to the inequalities between men and women by applying family law on the basis of traditional role models instead of equal rights, S. w hereas the right to conscientious objection is often abused by (religious) groups in order to reduce women’s rights in areas such as health care and family law, T. whereas women’s participation in decision-making is a decisive indicator of gender equality, whereas there are still not many women in management posts in businesses and universities and whereas the number of female politicians and researchers is rising only very slowly, U. whereas existing challenges and the experience acquired suggest that the lack of policy coherence between different areas has hampered the achievement of equality between women and men in the past and that women’s rights need to be adequately resourced, coordinated more closely, publicised more widely and promoted more effectively, allowing for individual circumstances, V. whereas affirmative action in favour of women has proven essential for their full incorporation into the labour market and society in general, W. whereas, notwithstanding the decisions prompted by the 15th anniversary, there is still more work to do to translate the Beijing Platform for Action into reality, X. whereas gender-disaggregated data are an essential tool for achieving real progress and evaluating outcomes effectively, Y. whereas 2010 is the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion, a fact which has to be reflected in policies and concerted action that genuinely help to improve the present situation, Z. whereas it is 100 years since 8 March was declared International Women’s Day, and this anniversary has been commemorated; whereas it is important for women and the organisations representing them to be involved in promoting equality and fighting discrimination and inequalities, AA. whereas the reconciliation of work, family and private life remains an unresolved issue for both women and men, AB. whereas access to childcare and services for the care of the elderly and other dependants is essential if men and women are to be able to participate in the labour market, education and training on an equal footing, AC. whereas, in most of the Member States, social security regimes do not take sufficient account of the specific circumstances of women who live in poverty; whereas the danger of being reduced to poverty is much greater for women; whereas the sharing of family and domestic duties between men and women, not least by developing the equal use of parental leave by both parents, along with paternity leave, is a precondition for promoting and achieving gender equality; and whereas not counting periods of maternity and parental leave towards aggregate working times is discriminatory and places