Answer given by Mr Almunia on behalf of the Commission (18 December 2008) The Commission agrees with the Honourable Member that the new Member States face significant challenges in the current global financial crisis. Prices of new Member States' financial assets have tumbled amid significant volatility over recent weeks, reflecting a generalised deterioration of sentiment towards emerging markets. Investors' retreat from risk and search for liquidity is contributing to pressures on some new Member States' currencies. Countries that over time have built up large domestic and external imbalances are particularly vulnerable in the current context. The possibility to notify state aid rescue measures for financial institutions is open to all Member States. The Commission is duly assessing all these measures for compliance with the EU's rules and will also monitor their implementation. In its surveillance functions under the Treaty, the Commission monitors closely the economies and the policies of Member States. In its analysis and policy advice, the Commission has consistently recommended strong policies to deal with widening imbalances well before the outburst of the financial crisis. Prudent macroeconomic management and productivity-increasing structural reforms are essential to achieve economic stability and prosperity. Where Member States have adopted state aid measures to assist financial institutions, the Commission can reassure the Honourable Member that it has made its approval of such measures subject to the requirement that aid is not exploited by beneficiaries in their marketing to customers. In this respect, the Commission draws attention to its recent communication OJ C 270, 25.10.2008. on the application of state aid rules to measures taken in relation to financial institutions in the context of the current financial crisis, points 27 and 38 of which emphasise that aid must not be used to finance aggressive expansion. In the current exceptional circumstances, the Commission and the EU more broadly have shown to stand ready to support the new Member States also financially, if needed. The Commission has proposed (and the Council adopted) a decision providing medium-term financial assistance to Hungary of up to EUR 6.5 billion to underpin its balance of payments sustainability. This support would be linked to economic policy conditions and be provided in conjunction with an International Monetary Fund (IMF) stand-by arrangement. Moreover, the Commission has also proposed to raise the ceiling for the EU financial assistance under the balance of payment facility from EUR 12 billion to EUR 25 billion, with a view to increasing significantly the capacity of the European Union to answer the potential (although yet unforeseen) needs of the Member States outside of the euro area.