grant such persons every facility for obtaining the requisite visas , including transit visas . Amendment 55 Article 14, title (new) Equal treatment Amendment 56 Article 15, title (new) Autonomous residence permit Amendment 57 Article 15, paragraph 1 1. At the latest after five years of residence, and provided the family relationship still exists, the spouse or unmarried partner and a child who has reached majority shall be entitled to an autonomous residence permit, independent of that of the applicant. 1. At the latest after five years of residence, and provided the family relationship still exists, the spouse or – where the legislation of the Member State in question considers unmarried couples to have equivalent status to married couples – unmarried or registered partner and the child or children of the applicant or of the spouse, unmarried or registered partner as referred to in Article 4(1)(a) who has reached majority shall be entitled to an autonomous residence permit, independent of that of the applicant. Amendment 58 Article 15, paragraph 3 3. In the event of widowhood, divorce, separation, or death of relatives in the ascending or descending line, an independent residence permit may be issued to persons who have entered by virtue of family reunification. Member States shall lay down provisions ensuring the granting of an independent residence permit in the event of particularly difficult circumstances. 3. In the event of widowhood, divorce, separation, or death of relatives in the ascending or descending line, an independent residence permit may be issued to persons who have entered by virtue of family reunification and have been resident for a minimum of one year . Member States shall lay down provisions ensuring the granting of an independent residence permit in the event of particularly difficult circumstances. Amendment 59 Article 16, title (new) Refusal of entry and withdrawal or refusal to renew a residence permit Amendment 61 Article 16, paragraph 4 4. Member States may conduct specific checks and inspections where there is reason to suspect that there is fraud or a marriage, partnership or adoption of convenience as defined by paragraph 2. Specific checks may also be undertaken on the occasion of the renewal of family members' residence permit. 4. Member States may conduct checks and inspections where there is reason to suspect that there is fraud or a marriage, partnership or adoption of convenience as defined by paragraph 2. Such checks may also be undertaken on the occasion of the renewal of family members' residence permit. Amendment 62 Article 17, title (new) Appraisal of family relationships and duration of residence Amendment 63 Article 17 Member States shall have proper regard for the nature and solidity of the person's family relationships and the duration of his residence in the Member State and to the existence of family, cultural and social ties with his country of origin where they reject an application, withdraw or refuse to renew a residence permit or decide to order the removal of the applicant or members of his family. Member States shall have proper regard for the nature and solidity of