compromise over the Services Directive, as well as on the financial perspectives. In spite of this “Europe is suffering a credibility crisis,” said Lewandowski “and to overcome this there are no easy solutions.” Lewandowski deeply regretted the fact that for many countries, and people, Europe seems to be a kind of zero-sum game. “But this is not the truth – with Europe everyone can be a winner.” Other participants felt that certain matters of concern had been neglected by the EU, for example the consistent implementation of a policy for peace. “I haven’t noticed the doves of peace flying over the EU lately,” said one, and a student from the university criticised the fact that there had been too little public information and discussion of the EU’s mission to the Congo. Günter Gloser, Germany’s Minister for Europe, alluded to how important Europe was and still is as a peaceful and democratic role model for Central and Eastern European states. “The prospects of accession were both right and important,” said Gloser, especially for Bulgaria and Romania. The promise of entry to the European Union had had a stabilising effect. But which, and how many, countries could the EU accommodate? Gloser mentioned the Ukraine and Belarus as examples: “The question is, what can the EU offer to these countries in order to help them on the way to democracy and constitutional legality?” One student felt that even within the EU there was “too little transparency,” and another called for “more power and influence for the European Parliament.” President Borrell seized on these desires and those for a “more social Europe” to canvass passionately for more political commitment on Europe: “Just because we want something, it does not mean that it will simply fall from the sky. Work on it, discuss it and make suggestions, so that the politicians can carry it through.” 20060529STO08524 EN 1 PHOTO 20060529PHT08526.jpg -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 STO DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 STO DOC XML V0//EN