term of office is two and a half years and they have an advisory role in the Bureau. James NICHOLSON (EPP-ED, UK) - 334 Astrid LULLING (EPP-ED, LU) - 298 Mia DE VITS (PES, BE) - 285 Ingo FRIEDRICH (EPP-ED, DE) - 280 Szabolcs FAZAKAS (PES, HU) - 267 Jan MULDER (ALDE, NL) - 265 Duties The Quaestors are responsible for administrative and financial matters that directly affect Members, for example making general services and equipment available. They can present proposals to modify or rewrite texts on all rules adopted by the Bureau. The Quaestors generally meet once a month. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-004-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-006-EN DOC XML V0//EN Institutions MEPs debate German Presidency with Chancellor Merkel 2007-01-22 - 12:29 Chancellor Angela Merkel gave her first speech to the European Parliament as President-in-Office of the European Council. Chancellor Merkel highlighted the forthcoming Berlin Declaration to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the European Union and the need for tolerance. MEPs from the different political groups gave their reactions with fellow German Christian-Democrat Hans-Gert Poettering chairing the debate as the newly elected European Parliament President. Speaking on behalf of the German presidency of the Council, Chancellor Angela MERKEL touched on broad questions relating to the essence and future of Europe as much as the practical detail of her government's work programme for the next six months. She reminded her audience that, having grown up in former East Germany, she had "up to the age of 35 seen the European Union from the outside". And seen from the outside the EU was "an unparalleled historic success", which had "secured freedom for the people of Europe and brought them prosperity". Now, seeing it from the inside, she found it even more attractive. In her view "there is no better place for us to live than our common European home". Yet people were now asking what Europe was about, how it should be defined. Jacques Delors had spoken of the need to "give Europe a soul" but Mrs Merkel believed Europe already had a soul, which was linked to its "tremendous diversity". She quoted the Czech writer Karel Čapek , who had said "The Creator made Europe small and even divided her, so that our hearts could find joy not in size but in diversity." But for diversity to exist, another quality was needed: freedom. And real freedom required respect for the freedom of others or, to use the famous quotation attributed to Voltaire, "I may disapprove of what you say but I will defend to the death your right to say it ". Ultimately, she believed, "Europe's soul is tolerance. Europe is the continent of tolerance". This lesson had taken a long time to learn and the worst period of "hatred, devastation and destruction" lay not so far in the past but this was all the more reason for Europe to promote the virtue of tolerance at home and abroad.