that the social sector is simply the other face of the internal market where decisions are also taken by majority vote; Mr Lena HJELM-WALLEN (Gvt, S) and Mrs Pascale ANDREANI (Gvt, F). Mr Jacques FLOCH (Pt, F) stated that qualified majority voting was 'the most important issue'. Arguing that 'in a Europe of 25 it is not possible to set objectives and at the same time deprive ourselves of the means to achieve them'. Mrs Pervenche BERES (EP, PES, F) argued that, by depriving itself of decision-making resources, the Union would be taking an immense populist risk. Addressing those who wished to remain with the provisions of the Treaty of Nice which had entered into force the previous week, she replied that there were no rules against immediately correcting 'a bad script'. Several speakers however, defended the system adopted at Nice, including Mr Peter HAIN, who did not wish to go any further, arguing that unanimity had not prevented the adoption of key legislation and that, since the Treaty of Nice had only been in force for a week, it was necessary to give it time to prove its effectiveness. Lord STOCKTON (EP, EPP-ED, UK), Mr Jozef OLEKSY (Pt, Pol), Mrs Piia Noora KAUPPI and Mrs Danuta HUBNER (Gvt, Pol) and Mrs Liene Liepina (Pt, Latvia) expressed the same opinions. In reply to Mr HAIN, Mr Josep BORRELL FONTELLES (Pt, E) asked the following question: 'When was it proved that unanimity had made it possible to create more jobs?' In an attempt to hit on a compromise, Mr Jurgen MEYER (Pt, D) suggested a 75% superqualified majority voting procedure for certain social issues. Open method of coordination Rather than drawing up binding legislation, it was possible to bring policies more closely into line through the ‘open coordination method’ already used in certain economic areas. A number of members have called for the inclusion in the Constitution of provisions allowing this method to be used and applied to social issues, while others stressed the need for flexibility, in particular Mr Gijs de VRIES, Mr Dick ROCHE and Mr Peter HAIN. Others, for example Mr Pierre CHEVALIER and Mrs Marie NAGY (Pt, B), warned against weakening existing decision-making procedures through recourse to this method. Mr Joachim WUERMELING opposed the inclusion of this method in the Constitution, arguing that a legal basis was unnecessary and could even encourage a ‘European dictat’. Lord STOCKTON argued that the method was too vague to be usable. Mr Elmar BROK argued that as a concept ‘it did not belong in a Constitution’ and should either be made more specific or abandoned. Minimum standards A number of members called for the introduction of minimum standards at European level, for example Mrs Anne VAN LANCKER and Mr Josep BORRELL FONTELLES who argued that this was essential in a Europe of 25 in order to avoid social dumping. Mrs Helle THORNING-SCHMIDT (EP, PES, DK) argued that it was necessary to avoid downward harmonisation of social provisions. A number of members from applicant countries on the other hand, argued that minimum standards could