The shares of the SPE shall be entered in the list of shareholders. 1 . The amount and nature of shareholders' shares in the SPE shall be entered onto the register . Justification If shareholders were merely recorded on a list to be kept by the management body, this would mark a considerable step backwards. Registration of shareholdings, as well as the shareholders as such, is the only way to provide an accurate picture of who is really behind a company. Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Subject to Article 27, the adoption of an amendment to the articles of association of the SPE which varies the rights attached to a class of shares (including any change to the procedure for varying the rights attached to a class of share) shall require the consent of a majority of not less than two-thirds of the voting rights attached to the shares issued in that class. 3. Subject to Article 27, the adoption of an amendment to the articles of association of the SPE which varies the rights attached to a class of shares (including any change to the procedure for varying the rights attached to a class of share) shall require the consent of a majority of not less than two-thirds of the voting rights attached to the shares issued in that class. The articles of association of the SPE may require a higher majority threshold. Justification Better protection of shareholders' rights. Amendment 33 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4a. Member States may provide that the share ownership is to be disclosed in a public register. Justification For reasons of better transparency, Member States should be able to provide for the shares to be disclosed by a public register instead of only in the private list of shareholders. The shareholder list is managed only by the company itself and hence subject to manipulation. Without a simple and reliable verification of ownership structures by means of a public register unlawful wind-ups of companies might occur if creditors have no recourse to the shareholders for documents and insolvency applications. Amendment 34 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 1 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The management body of the SPE shall draw up a list of shareholders. The list shall contain at least the following: 1. Register entries concerning the shareholders and their holdings shall contain at least the following: Justification See Amendment 7 to Article 14(1). Amendment 35 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 1 – point g a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ga) the identification of the former owner of the shares in the event of a transfer. Justification Transparency and clarity reasons. Amendment 36 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The list of shareholders shall, unless proven otherwise, constitute evidence of the authenticity of the matters listed