Lanka"; E. Whereas the report is based on the 'core understanding' in international law that 'accountability' for crimes involves "the right to the truth, the right to justice and the right to reparations, including through institutional guarantees of non-recurrence" and "an official acknowledgment by the State of its role and responsibility in violating the rights of its citizens"; F. Whereas the report, published on 26 April 2011, found credible allegations that both government forces and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) conducted military operations "with flagrant disregard for the protection, rights, welfare and lives of civilians and failed to respect the norms of international law"; G. Whereas the panel also concluded that "Sri Lanka's efforts, nearly two years after the end of the war, fall dramatically short of international standards on accountability and fail to satisfy either the joint commitment of the President of Sri Lanka and the Secretary-General, or Sri Lanka's legal duties"; H. Whereas the Sri Lankan government has dismissed the panel report, calling it “illegal,” “biased, baseless and unilateral”, while the panel concluded "that the Government's notion of accountability is not in accordance with international standards"; 1. Commends the UN Secretary-General for his efforts to ensure accountability for war-time abuses in Sri Lanka; 2. Takes act that the panel found "credible allegations which if proven, indicate that a wide range of serious violations of international humanitarian law and international human rights law was committed both by the Government of Sri Lanka and the LTTE, some of which would amount to war crimes and crimes against humanity"; 3. Expresses its grave concern over the findings of the report such as deliberate large-scale shellings of civilians in the No Fire Zones, denial of humanitarian assistance, attacks on hospitals, UN and ICRC humanitarian support installations by the Government and the overall conclusion that 'most civilian casualties in the final phases of the war were caused by Government shelling'; 4. Is equally disheartened by the report's allegations that the LTTE applied a policy of forced recruitment (including children) throughout the war, used civilians as human buffer, killed civilians attempting to flee LTTE control and continued its policy of suicide attacks outside the conflict zone throughout the final stages of the war; 5. Underlines that the large number of people who reportedly have come forward on their own initiative to speak to the LLRC Commission, despite its limitations, illustrate the strong wish and need for a national dialogue on the conflict; 6. Urges the Sri Lankan government to implement the panel’s recommendations, starting with the "immediate measures" and including immediately commencing genuine investigations into the alleged violations of international humanitarian and human rights law committed by both sides involved in the armed conflict; 7. Encourages the UN Secretary-General to act on the panel’s recommendations, including a comprehensive review of actions by the United Nations system during the war in Sri Lanka and the aftermath; 8. Supports the establishment of an international mechanism to monitor and assess the Sri Lankan government’s efforts to provide accountability, independently investigate alleged violations, and collect and safeguard evidence