MFF. The EP has constantly underlined the importance of these programmes and of EU action in policy areas such as cultural dialogue, town twinning, cooperation of universities and schools, professional training, youth exchanges, audiovisual creativity, cultural diversity and pluralism. Active policies with adequate financial means in these areas are fundamental. They are essential to define European identity as characterised by peace, stability and welfare as well as by effective political delivery in times of social and economical transformation. This is even truer with an enlargement of the EU to 27 countries. Remarks to specific areas: Policy area 9: already last year the culture committee had welcomed the transition of the media and audiovisual policy budget lines, for which this committee is responsible, to policy area 9, which is managed by DG INFSO within the Commission. The rapporteur notes the complex challenges ahead of us for building up an inclusive information society, capable to combine innovation and cultural diversity. Audiovisual policy requires several elements: a revision of the regulation framework; access, participation and awareness of viewers and civil society to transformation processes; active instruments to support changes and innovative processes in the audiovisual sector. The rapporteur notes the reduction for the programme MEDIA, which would decrease from 86.41m (commitments in 2006) to 76.01 (PDB 2007). This relative reduction is to be explained by the "back-loading" of the programme at the end of the previous financial period. This means that spending for MEDIA would rapidly grow in the next years and that the reduction in 2007 would not endanger the functioning of the programme. Policy area 15 . The rapporteur welcomes the fact that the MFF allows for stability of the programmes in this area, with gradual increases through the financial period. In particular, it is to be welcome the strengthening of the actions now gathered in the programme LIFELONG LEARNING (LLL). On the same time, this programme is the one with the largest reduction compared to the original proposal by the Commission and to the first reading report by the EP. This means a reduction of the ambitions and the objectives of the programme. In general, these reductions are concentrated on budget lines which affect less directly citizens. This would apply in principle also for the reduction for the programme CITIZENS FOR EUROPE, which will include different actions and lines of the previous financial period. It has to be underlined that this programme will now absorb the support to preservation of the memory of Nazi and Stalinist concentration camps, which were previously financed via the Culture programme. In this case the reduction is not only compared to the ambitions set by Commission and Parliament, but also compared to the 2006 Budget. This amounts (for commitments) to 23.9m in 2006 and is reduced to 19.3 in the PDB 2007. In particular this would affect conferences and seminars but, even if in smaller scale, also twinning schemes support to civil society organisations and projects. As for MEDIA above, the budget would however grow in the coming years. The rapporteur welcomes the strengthening of the cooperation