decides otherwise. Rule 104 Statements explaining Commission decisions After consulting the Conference of Presidents, the President may invite the President of the Commission, the Commissioner responsible for relations with the European Parliament or, by agreement, another Commissioner, to make a statement to Parliament after each meeting of the Commission, explaining the main decisions taken. The statement shall be followed by a debate of at least thirty minutes in which Members may put brief and concise questions. Rule 105 Statements by the Court of Auditors 1. In the context of the discharge procedure or Parliament's activities in the sphere of budgetary control, the President of the Court of Auditors may be invited to take the floor in order to present the comments contained in the Annual Report, special reports or opinions of the Court, or in order to explain the Court's work programme. 2. Parliament may decide to hold a separate debate on any questions raised in such statements with the participation of the Commission and Council, in particular where irregularities have been reported in financial management. Rule 106 Statements by the European Central Bank 1. The President of the European Central Bank shall present the Bank's Annual Report on the activities of the European System of Central Banks and on the monetary policy of both the previous and current year to Parliament. 2. This presentation shall be followed by a general debate. 3. The President of the European Central Bank shall be invited to attend meetings of the committee responsible at least four times a year to make a statement and answer questions. 4. If they or Parliament so request, the President, Vice-President and other Members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank shall be invited to attend additional meetings. 5. A verbatim report of proceedings under paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be drawn up in the official languages. Rule 107 Recommendation on the broad guidelines of economic policies 1. The recommendation from the Commission on the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the Member States and the Community shall be presented to the committee responsible which shall submit a report to Parliament. 2. The Council shall be invited to inform the Parliament of the content of its recommendation, and of the position taken by the European Council. CHAPTER 3 QUESTIONS TO THE COUNCIL, THE COMMISSION AND THE EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK Rule 108 Questions for oral answer with debate 1. Questions may be put to the Council or the Commission by a committee, a political group or at least forty Members with a request that they be placed on the agenda of Parliament. Such questions shall be submitted in writing to the President who shall immediately refer them to the Conference of Presidents. The Conference of Presidents shall decide whether and in what order questions should be placed on the agenda. Questions not placed on Parliament's agenda within three months of being submitted shall lapse. 2. Questions to the Commission must be referred to that institution at least one week before the sitting on whose agenda they are to