Question for written answer P-7958/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Jarosław Kalinowski (PPE) (30 September 2010) Subject: Negotiations on a gas supply agreement between Poland and Russia One of the side-effects of the gas crisis that occurred in Europe in January 2009 was that the Ukrainian supplier RosUkrEnergo, a Gazprom affiliate, was squeezed out of the gas market. RosUkrEnergo supplied Poland with 2.5 billion cubic metres of gas a year, but after the crisis it was no longer able to fulfil its contract. The resulting shortfall forced Poland to negotiate additional supplies with Gazprom. The short-term supply contract for 2010 will expire on 20 October, and the signing of a contract for increased supplies from Russia is dependent on the renegotiation of the international agreement concluded in 1993. Discussions conducted with other gas suppliers with a view to diversifying sources of supply have as yet failed to produce the anticipated results. The causes of this include technical factors (such as the lack of interconnections), political factors (refusal to allow a potential contractor — EON — access to the Ukrainian pipeline network) and the lack of interest shown by contractors in other options. The fact that RosUkrEnergo is currently in the process of re-entering the Ukrainian market, under strange circumstances, is also worthy of note. In response to the firm stance taken by the Russian side and their insistence on certain provisions in the international agreement that are incompatible with EC law, the Commission decided to join the negotiating process. 1. How does the Commission intend to help break the deadlock in the negotiations? 2. Has it drawn up an action plan in case it proves impossible to reach a satisfactory solution for both sides, which would leave Poland with a gas shortfall in the order of 1.5 billion cubic metres and could lead to serious disruption in certain branches of industry? 3. Does it intend to refer the matter to the Gas Coordination Group?