or partner as referred to in point (b); (d) the direct dependent relatives in the ascending line and those of the spouse or partner as referred to in point (b); The host Member State shall be free to apply more favourable conditions. Amendment 18 Article 8 paragraph 2 2. Member States may withdraw or refuse to renew a residence permit for reasons of public policy, public security or public health. Where they take such a decision, Member States shall take account of the seriousness or nature of the infringement of public policy or public health committed by the person concerned or the threat posed by that person. The competent authority of the Member State concerned may not withhold renewal of the residence permit, withdraw the permit or remove its holder from the territory on the ground of illness or disability suffered after the residence permit was issued. 2. Member States may withdraw or refuse to renew a residence permit for reasons of public security or public health. Where they take such a decision, Member States shall take account of the seriousness or nature of the infringement of public security or public health committed by the person concerned or the threat posed by that person. The competent authority of the Member State concerned may not withhold renewal of the residence permit, withdraw the permit or remove its holder from the territory on the ground of illness or disability suffered after the residence permit was issued. Amendment 19 Article 11 Researchers admitted under this Directive may teach in a higher education establishment within the meaning of Member States` legislation and administrative practice, subject to a maximum number of hours per year set by each Member State. Researchers admitted under this Directive may teach in accordance with national legislation. Member States may set a maximum number of hours or days per year that researchers are allowed to teach, if such a limitation is provided for in existing national legislation. Amendment 20 Article 13 1. A holder of a residence permit issued under this Directive may, under cover of the permit together with a valid passport or equivalent travel document, conduct part of his research project on the territory of another Member State, provided the latter does not regard him as a threat to public policy, public security or public health. If necessary, bearing in mind the time needed to conduct this part of the research, a new hosting agreement shall be signed, on the basis of which the researcher shall be issued a residence permit in the second Member State. 1. A third-country national admitted as a researcher under this Directive shall be entitled to conduct part of his research work in another Member State under the conditions set out in this Article. 2. Paragraph 1 shall not affect Member States" right to require a short-term visa for third-country nationals not covered by the mutual recognition arrangements laid down in Article 21 of the Convention Implementing the Schengen Agreement. 2. A researcher residing for no more than three months in another Member State may conduct