Fundamental Freedoms; 82. Considers that, in view of the new legal context resulting from the Treaty of Amsterdam, the forthcoming prospect of a European Charter of Fundamental Rights and the establishment of a European area of freedom, security and justice, the EU's approach to human rights should not be limited to reporting and applying sanctions on a case-by-case basis but should form part of a genuine European human rights policy, applicable to all European Union Member States; 83. Welcomes, in this connection, the Commission's proposals for anti-discrimination legislation under Article 13 of the EC Treaty to combat various forms of discrimination in everyday life and at work, including its proposals to tackle discrimination on grounds of race or ethnic origin; 84. Calls for the setting up of a European independent supervisory body responsible for monitoring effectively the protection of personal data and the right to private life as envisaged in Article 286 of the EC Treaty; 85. Considers it therefore essential that the Commission be provided with appropriate budgetary resources to establish the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice in Europe within the next five years; 86. Stresses the importance of involving NGOs in the protection of human rights, which depends on proper financing and well-functioning cooperation with the Commission and, as far as the candidate countries are concerned, with the Council of Europe, the UN and the OSCE; 2. Effective justiciability of human rights 87. Underlines the need to establish a clear hierarchy of legal rules and a proper definition and delimitation of the powers of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Human Rights and the national courts, in order to prevent different legal standards from being applied; 88. Urges Member States to give the EU legal personality to enable it to accede to the ECHR; 89. Stresses the importance of strengthening judicial cooperation and calls on the Member States to adopt appropriate provisions to bring previous judicial cooperation agreements within the Community framework, in particular with regard to notification and recognition of judicial and extrajudicial acts, in order to guarantee that European citizens can rely on a properly functioning judicial system in the Union; 90. Urges the Member States which do not fully participate in this to do so in order to secure the same rights for their citizens; 91. Underlines the important role played by the Committee on Petitions in upholding citizens' rights and in contributing to the implementation of Community law over a period of many years and calls on the Council to attend and participate fully in all its meetings where citizens' petitions are considered, especially in cases of serious infringements of Community law by Member States; 92. Considers that the role of the Council's annual report on human rights should be made clearer and that it should include a European analysis of human rights developments, including rights for national minorities, in the various Member States and a definition of strategies to enable national and European policies in this field to evolve with a view to improving their coherence; 93. Urges the