46(2). 7. The Member States shall ensure that the rights and obligations of tied agents are geared to the requirements of Directive 2002/92/EC and that harmonisation is carried out accordingly. Article 22 Transactions executed with eligible counterparties 1. The Member States shall ensure that investment firms authorised to execute orders on behalf of clients , operate an MTF, receive and transmit orders, provide investment advice and/or deal on own account, may provide such services to eligible counterparties without being obliged to comply with the obligations under Articles 18, 19 and 20 in respect of those services . 2. Member States shall recognise as eligible counterparties for the purposes of this Article: a) investment firms, b) credit institutions, c) insurance companies, d) commodity and commodity derivatives dealers and other entities authorised or regulated to operate in financial markets, including entities authorised by a Member State under a Directive, entities authorised or regulated without reference to a Directive and entities authorised or regulated by a third country, e) any other authorised or regulated financial intermediary considered as such by Community legislation, f) central banks, national governments and their representatives and corresponding offices, including public bodies which are responsible for public debt, g) international and supranational organisations. Member States shall also recognise as eligible counterparties UCITS and their management companies, pension funds and their management companies, and other undertakings meeting pre-determined proportionate requirements, including quantitative thresholds. Classification as an eligible counterparty under the second subparagraph shall be without prejudice to the right of such entities to request treatment as clients whose business with the investment firm is subject to Articles 18, 19 and 20. 3. Member States shall ensure that transactions undertaken by users or participants of a regulated market or an MTF, on or through the systems of the regulated market or MTFs, are treated as transactions between eligible counterparties. 4. Member States shall also recognise as eligible counterparties entities having their registered office or head office in third countries and subject to rules similar to those that apply to the entities referred to in paragraph 2 . 5. In order to ensure the consistent application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 in the light of changing market practice and to facilitate the effective operation of the single market, the Commission may adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), implementing measures concerning the classification of eligible counterparties. Section 3 market transparency and integrity Article 23 Obligation to uphold integrity of markets, report transactions, and maintain records 1. Without prejudice to the allocation of responsibilities for enforcing the provisions of European Parliament and Council Directive 2003/../EC of ... [on market abuse] OJ L , the competent authority shall also monitor the activities of investment firms to ensure that they act honestly, fairly and professionally and in a manner which promotes the integrity of the market. 2. Member States shall require investment firms to keep at the disposal of the competent authority, for at least five years, the relevant data relating to all transactions in financial instruments which they have carried out,