another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and the Commission. Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1) Credit rating agencies play an important role in global securities and banking markets, as their ratings are used by investors, borrowers, issuers and governments to make informed investment and financing decisions. Credit institutions, investments firms, insurance undertakings, assurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings, undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) and institutions for occupational retirement provision , may use those ratings as the reference for the calculation of their capital requirements for solvency purposes or for calculating risks in their investment activity. Consequently, credit ratings have a significant impact on the trust and confidence of investors and consumers. It is essential, therefore, that credit ratings used in the Community are independent, objective and of the highest quality. (1) Credit rating agencies play an important role in global securities and banking markets, as their credit ratings are used by investors, borrowers, issuers and governments as part of making informed investment and financing decisions. Credit institutions, investment firms, insurance undertakings, assurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings, undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) and institutions for occupational retirement provision may use those credit ratings as the reference for the calculation of their capital requirements solvency purposes or for calculating risks in their investment activity. Consequently, credit ratings have a significant impact on the operation of the markets and on the trust and confidence of investors and consumers. It is essential, therefore, that credit rating agencies observe the principles of integrity, transparency, responsibility, good governance, and institutional cooperation in order to ensure that resulting credit ratings used in the Community are independent, objective and of the highest quality. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (2) Currently, most credit rating agencies have their headquarters outside the Community. Most Member States do not regulate the activities of credit rating agencies or the conditions for the issuance of credit ratings. Despite their significant importance for the functioning of the financial markets, credit rating agencies are only to a limited extent subject to Community legislation, notably Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation. Moreover, Directive 2006/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and Directive 2006/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions refer to credit rating agencies. It is therefore important to lay down rules ensuring that all ratings used by financial institutions governed by Community legislation are of high quality and issued by credit rating agencies subject to stringent requirements. The Commission will continue to work with its international partners to ensure convergence of the rules applying to credit rating agencies. (2) Currently, most credit rating agencies have their headquarters outside the Community. Most