two parts corresponding to the “’indirect” actions on fusion energy research and nuclear fission and radiation protection, and the “direct” research activities of the Joint Research Centre. Fusion Energy Research Objective Developing the knowledge base for, and realising ITER as the major step towards, the creation of prototype reactors for power stations which are safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible, and economically viable. Rationale There are serious shortcomings in Europe ’s energy supply with respect to near, medium, and long-term considerations. In particular, measures are needed to address the issues of security of supply, climate change, and sustainable development, while ensuring that future economic growth is not threatened. Fusion has the potential to make a major contribution to the realisation of a sustainable and secure supply for the EU in a few decades from now. Its successful development would provide energy which is safe, sustainable and environmentally friendly. The long-term goal of European fusion research, embracing all the fusion activities in the Member States and associated third countries, is the joint creation of prototype reactors for power stations which meet these requirements, and are economically viable. The strategy to achieve the long-term goal entails, as its first priority, the construction of ITER (a major experimental facility which will demonstrate the scientific and technical feasibility of fusion power), followed by the construction of DEMO, a "demonstration" fusion power station. This will be accompanied by a dynamic programme of supporting R&D for ITER and for the developments in fusion materials, technologies and physics required for DEMO. This would involve European industry, the fusion Associations and third countries, in particular Parties to the ITER Agreement. Activities The realisation of ITER This includes activities for the joint realisation of ITER (as an international research infrastructure), in particular for site preparation, establishing the ITER Organisation and the European Joint Undertaking for ITER, management and staffing, general technical and administrative support, construction of equipment and installations and support to the project during construction. R&D in preparation of ITER operation A focused physics and technology programme will exploit the facilities and resources in the fusion programme, including JET. It will assess specific key ITER technologies, consolidate ITER project choices, and prepare for ITER operation through experimental and theoretical activities. Technology activities in preparation of DEMO This entails the vigorous development of fusion materials and key technologies for fusion, and the establishment of a dedicated project team to prepare for the construction of the International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility (IFMIF) to qualify materials for DEMO. It will include irradiation testing and modelling of materials, studies of the DEMO conceptual design, and studies of the safety, environmental and socio-economic aspects of fusion energy. R&D activities for the longer term The activities will include further development of improved concepts for magnetic confinement schemes with potential advantages for Fusion power stations (focussed on the completion of the construction of the W7-X stellarator device), theory and modelling aimed at a comprehensive understanding of the behaviour of fusion plasmas and co-ordination, in the context of a keep-in-touch activity, of Member States’ civil research activities on inertial confinement.