promoted. Article 12 Reduction of pesticide use in sensitive areas 1. Member States shall, taking due account of the necessary hygiene and public safety requirements, ensure that the following measures are adopted: a) the use of pesticides shall be prohibited or restricted to the minimum necessary in all areas used by the general public or by sensitive population groups , at least in residential areas, parks, public gardens, sports and recreation grounds, school grounds and playgrounds and in the vicinity of public healthcare facilities (clinics, hospitals, rehabilitation centres, health resorts, hospices) as well as in substantial no-spray zones including in fields around these areas, particularly, although not exclusively, to protect sensitive groups such as babies, children, pregnant women, the elderly and those with pre-existing medical conditions and who may be taking medication; b) the use of pesticides shall be prohibited or strongly restricted in ▐conservation areas or other areas identified for the purposes of establishing the necessary conservation measures in accordance with Articles 3 and 4 of Directive 79/409/EEC and Articles 6, 10, and 12 of Directive 92/43/EEC. 2. The prohibition or restriction shall be based on the results of relevant risk assessments. Article 13 Handling and storage of pesticides and their packaging and remnants 1. As part of their national action plans, Member States shall adopt the ▐measures that prove necessary on the basis of relevant risk assessments to ensure that the following operations carried out by users do not endanger the health or safety of humans and the environment: a) safe storage, handling, dilution and mixing of pesticides before application; b) safe handling of packaging and remnants of pesticides; c) treatment of mixtures remaining after application; d) preparation, handling, cleaning and storage of the equipment used for application and any accessories, including spraying equipment and chemicals . 2. Member States shall take all necessary measures regarding pesticides authorised for non-professional use to avoid dangerous handling operations. 3. In their national action plans, Member States shall take the measures that prove necessary on the basis of appropriate risk assessments to ensure that storage areas for pesticides shall be constructed in such a way as to prevent unwanted releases. Article 14 Integrated Pest Management 1. Member States shall take all necessary measures , including the use of economic instruments, to promote low pesticide-input farming, including integrated pest management with the prioritisation of non-chemical methods of plant protection and pest and crop management , and to ensure that professional users of pesticides switch as quickly as possible to a more environmentally-friendly use of all available crop protection measures, giving priority to low-risk alternatives wherever possible, and otherwise to the products with minimum impact on human health and the environment among the ones available for the same pest problem. 2. Member States shall encourage the use of low-risk plant protection products as defined in Article [50(1)] of Regulation (EC) No … [concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market]. 3 . Member States shall establish or support the establishment of all necessary conditions for implementation of integrated pest management and non-chemical methods