{ "context": [ [ "Cupcone", [ "A cupcone (the common US term), is a small cake generally proportioned to serve one person, specifically baked in a flat bottomed ice cream cone.", " As with larger cakes, frosting and other cake decorations, such as sprinkles, are common on cupcones.", " The consumable vessel design of a cupcone makes for a completely edible and self-contained snack food with no waste." ] ], [ "Drake's Cakes", [ "Drake's Cakes is a brand of American baked goods.", " The company was founded by Newman E. Drake in 1896 in Harlem as The N.E. Drake Baking Company.", " Currently, the brand is owned by McKee Foods.", " The company makes snack cake products such as Devil Dogs, Funny Bones, Coffee Cakes, Ring Dings and Yodels.", " Drake's has traditionally been marketed primarily in the Northeastern U.S. but in 2016 re-expanded to the Mid-Atlantic and Southeastern U.S. regions.", " The products are produced under the Orthodox Union Kosher Certification guidelines." ] ], [ "Axona", [ "Axona was previously marketed as a medical food for the clinical dietary management of the impairment of metabolic processes associated with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.", " It is a proprietary formulation of fractionated coconut oil (caprylic triglyceride), a medium-chain triglyceride.", " Accera, Inc., the company that makes Axona, states that during digestion, caprylic triglyceride is broken down into ketones, which provide an alternative energy source for the brain.", " Its use is based on the idea that the brain's ability to use its normal energy source, glucose, is impaired in Alzheimer's disease.", " Axona was first sold in March 2009." ] ], [ "Noninvasive glucose monitor", [ "Noninvasive glucose monitoring refers to the measurement of blood glucose levels (required by people with diabetes to prevent both chronic and acute complications from the disease) without drawing blood, puncturing the skin, or causing pain or trauma.", " The search for a successful technique began about 1975 and has continued to the present without a clinically or commercially viable product.", " s of 1999 , only one such product had been approved for sale by the FDA, based on a technique for electrically pulling glucose through intact skin, and it was withdrawn after a short time owing to poor performance and occasional damage to the skin of users." ] ], [ "Quiggin's", [ "Quiggin's is one of three companies that make Kendal Mint Cake.", " They were founded in 1880 by the Quiggin's family." ] ], [ "Michel Montignac", [ "Michel Montignac (1944 – August 22, 2010) was a French diet developer who originally created the Montignac diet to help himself lose weight, which he based on research that focuses on the glycemic index of foods, which affects the amount of glucose delivered to the blood after eating.", " The diet, which distinguishes between good and bad carbohydrates, became the basis for best-selling books and a chain of restaurants and stores promoting his diet regimen and was one of the theoretical predecessors of the South Beach Diet." ] ], [ "Kaysie Lackey", [ "Kaysie Lackey