the identification number/identity document*: Amendment 37 Proposal for a regulation Annex V Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Annex deleted Amendment 38 Proposal for a regulation Annex VIII – point 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6. Full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organiser or, in the case of a legal entity or organisation, its legal representative . 6. Full name, postal address and e-mail address of each member of the organising committee . PROCEDURE Title Citizens’ initiative References COM(2010)0119 – C7-0089/2010 – 2010/0074(COD) Committee responsible AFCO Opinion by Date announced in plenary CULT 21.4.2010 Rapporteur Date appointed Róża Gräfin von Thun und Hohenstein 20.5.2010 Discussed in committee 14.7.2010 27.9.2010 Date adopted 27.10.2010 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 30 0 0 Members present for the final vote Magdi Cristiano Allam, Maria Badia i Cutchet, Zoltán Bagó, Malika Benarab-Attou, Lothar Bisky, Piotr Borys, Jean-Marie Cavada, Silvia Costa, Santiago Fisas Ayxela, Petra Kammerevert, Morten Løkkegaard, Marek Henryk Migalski, Doris Pack, Chrysoula Paliadeli, Marie-Thérèse Sanchez-Schmid, Marietje Schaake, Marco Scurria, Joanna Senyszyn, Emil Stoyanov, Hannu Takkula, Sabine Verheyen, Milan Zver Substitute(s) present for the final vote Ivo Belet, Luigi Berlinguer, Nadja Hirsch, Oriol Junqueras Vies, Seán Kelly, Timothy Kirkhope, Mitro Repo, Monika Smolková, Rui Tavares, Róża Gräfin von Thun und Hohenstein 26.10.2010 OPINION of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative ( COM(2010)0119 – C7‑0089/2010 – 2010/0074(COD) ) Draftswomen: Kinga Göncz, Cecilia Wikström SHORT JUSTIFICATION Article 11(4) of the Treaty on European Union introduces an important innovation in the democratic functioning of the Union by providing a new concrete tool for civic participation and pan-European debate: "Not less than one million citizens who are nationals of a significant number of Member States may take the initiative of inviting the European Commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Treaties." The European Citizens' Initiative (ECI) introduces a new concept of trans-national democracy and brings participatory democracy to the EU. Through the ECI, EU citizens can appeal directly to the European Commission to initiate a legal act. In a way, the Lisbon Treaty has created a fourth institutional body of the EU: one million citizens. The proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the citizens' initiative sets out the procedures and conditions for how the citizens' initiative will function in practice. Your rapporteurs welcome the Commission proposal, as involving civil society in policy shaping and preparations of decisions strengthens the democratic legitimacy of public institutions and brings the European Union closer to its citizens. However, your rapporteurs believe that the citizens' initiative should be designed as pragmatically as possible, and complicated administrative procedures should be avoided. They would also like to see that as many launched initiatives as possible will be granted admissibility. In order to