and to trigger investment. This will require a clearer separation of energy production from energy distribution, and stronger independent regulatory control with a European dimension. The Commission also makes proposals on improved interconnections, on transparency, and on a new Customers' Energy Charter. A 20% target for energy efficiency by 2020, with detailed proposals for how to get there. A new drive for clean energy, through a binding commitment to triple renewable energy use by 2020; a 50% annual increase in the energy research budget; and commitments to advance clean hydrocarbon technology. There is, he said, a role for the European Institute of Technology in this. It is essential to hear Parliament's voice on these issues in the run up to the March European Council. The EU could find no better way to launch its anniversary than by showing its ambitions for the future. Continuing, Mr Barroso stated that the Berlin Declaration is an opportunity for the Member States to commit themselves to the values and aims of the European Union. It must look forward and deliver a political statement about the Europe for the next fifty years. It must fully involve the Parliament and the Commission. It provides an opportunity for the twelve Member States that joined in 2004 and 2007 to contribute, as full members, to the vision of an EU common future. It is appropriate that the Declaration for the future of Europe will be signed in Berlin, the symbol of a reunited Europe. What should this Declaration say? Today's leaders, Mr Barroso stated, should stand on the shoulders of the founding fathers, and look ahead to the next 50 years, to the challenges which could not be imagined in 1957 but which Europe must face in 2007. Put simply, to equip Europeans for globalisation, in a Europe of open economies, open societies, in a Europe which must engage with citizens, not ignore them. A Europe built on citizens' consent has solid foundations. A Europe which does not work for that consent is built on sand. Mr Barroso listed five concrete proposals for the Declaration: Solidarity. An enlarged and open Europe requires greater cohesion – social cohesion as well as economic. Sustainability. The fight against climate change, through energy and other policies, should be a defining mission for Europe's future. Accountability. Transparency and access to information should become not only rights for European citizens but also obligations for Europe's institutions. Security. Europe must guarantee the security of its citizens whilst preserving fundamental freedoms. Promote Europe's values in the world, as well as its interests. Sustainability, accountability, solidarity, security cannot, indeed must not stop at Europe's borders. In conclusion, Mr Barroso stated that what is needed by the end of this Presidency is a common road map towards an institutional settlement, before the next European elections in 2009. But, he stated, a road map is not all that is required.. "We need the settlement; to clear the clouds of doubt which hang over parts of Europe, to show vitality and confidence to our partners, and to make the European Union more