says an Assembly recommendation on the value added by the UfM to the region's development (rapporteurs Raimon Obiols and Ivo Vajgl for the EP). The UfM is also "an asset for achieving institutional reforms in Mediterranean countries" and tackling issues such as water, energy and immigration", it adds. According to Raimon Obiols (S&D, ES), "changing the name of the Assembly from EMPA to Parliamentary Assembly of the UfM should be the first step to enforce a real parliamentary dimension of the Union". On behalf of the EU's Spanish Presidency, Ambassador Jose Riera Siquier assured the Assembly that "The EMPA recommendations will be taken into account with a view to the upcoming June 2010 UfM summit in Barcelona". "EMPA is a political bridge across the Mediterranean, a unique form of co-operation. It needs more than ever to give boost to the peace process and the economies of the region", said European Parliament President Jerzy Buzek, who led the EP Delegation and who recently met the Israeli Foreign Minister and the President of the Palestinian Authority in Brussels. No consensus on a Mediterranean Bank The Assembly did not reach a consensus on the Tunisian proposal to transform the Facility for Euro-Mediterranean Investment and Partnership (FEMIP) into a Mediterranean Branch of the European Bank of Investment (EIB). Some delegations from the EU national parliaments (including Sweden, Finland and Germany), opposed creating such a bank, arguing that existing facilities are better and that loans would be more expensive if the bank were to be set up. The Assembly nevertheless asked that the "most efficient mechanism to support the UfM projects" should be studied, one option being "a Euro-Mediterranean Bank". Charles Henri, of the UfM mission, presented to the Assembly the mandate of the working group, set up by French President Nicolas Sarkozy, on the feasibility of a financial instrument for the Union, which should not interfere with existing institutions and mechanisms (African Bank of Development, Neighbourhood and Pre-Accession Instruments, EDF for Mauritania…). The 10-strong group will make public its recommendations 27 May, a few days before the Barcelona summit in June. The Assembly also adopted recommendations on freedom of expression and respect for religious beliefs (rapporteur Hélène Flautre) and on the preservation and sustainability of the Common sea, including the Dead Sea (rapporteur Ioannis Kasoulides, EPP, CY). Croatia and Montenegro joined the Assembly EMPA decided to welcome, as new members of the Assembly, Croatia and Montenegro, which are also members of the Union for the Mediterranean. EMPA brings together 280 parliamentarians. Of these, 130 represent EU members (81 members of the 27 EU national parliaments and 49 MEPs), 10 members from the parliaments of the European Mediterranean partner countries (2 members for each of the delegations from Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Monaco, and Montenegro), and 130 members of the parliaments of the ten founding Mediterranean partners, on the basis of equal representation, and 10 members from the Mauritanian Parliament. Italian Presidency of the EMPA until March 2011 Gianfranco Fini, Speaker of the Chamber of deputies, highlighted Italy's priorities: promoting democracy and human rights ("democracy is