Question for written answer E-3938/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Mara Bizzotto (EFD) (3 June 2010) Subject: Transposition of Bolkestein Directive (2006/123/EC) in Belgium and effects on street trading and local markets In Italy in recent months, during the government's drafting of the law transposing Directive 2006/123/EC OJ L 376, 27.12.2006, p. 36 . , demonstrations and protests were held by street and market traders worried about the entry into force of legal provisions which, under the terms of the above directive, would allow capital companies and cooperatives to obtain permits to trade in public areas (local and farmers' markets). The measures contained in the Italian implementing law stipulate that permits to trade in markets currently held by traditional street traders (usually one-person or family companies) should be reassigned once they expire by means of public award procedures in which capital companies and cooperatives would be able to take part and where no preference would be given to existing permit holders. Street traders have therefore held demonstrations and public protests condemning the effects of the directive on the street trading sector, where traditional local market traders are liable to be replaced by traders who would distort the established role of markets as places of significance not only in commercial terms but also in perpetuating the identity and traditions of local communities everywhere. Will the Commission say whether Belgium has yet transposed the Bolkestein Directive and whether protests or demonstrations similar to those in Italy were held by street and market traders before, during or after the entry into force of the law transposing the directive? What was the legal and regulatory framework governing the street trading sector in Belgium before the directive? What legal, social and economic effects has the implementation of the directive had on the street trading sector in Belgium? Before the directive was implemented, did Belgian law allow capital companies and cooperatives to trade in public areas and markets and did street traders obtain permits to trade from local authorities or was trade in public areas and markets completely unregulated? How were permits allocated before the directive was implemented and how has the procedure changed since?