the consumer " telling the complainant that " the home country supervisor of the provider would be responsible " (WS2). In his view, the authority of the country of the consumer should have a clear responsibility for dealing with complaints, irrespective of whether or not the matters complained about fall under its supervisory responsibility, because the consumer could not be expected to address regulatory authorities in another Member State and (possibly) in a foreign language (see WE-FILE 28 Page 3. ). Thus, if a complaint relates to prudential supervision, the authority of the consumer's home country should take it up, bring it to the attention of the prudential regulator and attempt to resolve it in cooperation with that regulator, according to Mr WESTPHAL. In addition, evidence received by the committee suggests that, in relation to Equitable Life, there was at least one case where a complaint was interpreted by the German regulator as concerning a financial supervision issue, while the UK regulator regarded the same complaint as conduct of business related. The complainant was therefore referred forth and back between home and host regulator. While the case mentioned indeed appears to concern a conduct of business issue, it must be noted that there exists a " grey area between prudential and conduct of business supervision " (WE-CONF 18 Page 8. ) which seems to have allowed home and host state authorities to shift responsibility for dealing with complaints on to one another. Mr HOLMES puts it the following way (WE 84 Pages 27-28. ): " As regards the division of regulatory competence, the evidence heard by the Committee of Inquiry reveals the difficulties for consumers in determining what rules are applicable to their contracts, and which national regulator is competent to hear their complaints. Given the uncertainties, there may be a risk of regulatory 'ping-pong' in cross-border situations in which each national regulator attempts to assign responsibility to the other; the division of competence works in theory but it is unclear whether it operates effectively in practice ". Finally, it must be noted that both Irish and German regulators appear to have responded to numerous queries and requests for information from policyholders. There is convincing evidence indicating that they proactively sought to obtain information from the UK regulator and passed it on to Irish and German policyholders. In essence, however, international policyholders were not able to get redress for their grievances through their respective national financial services authorities. b.) Financial Ombudsman schemes A number of policyholders tried to obtain redress through their respective national Ombudsman schemes. Ireland As regards the situation in Ireland, Mr MEADE explains in WE 62 that the Office of Financial Services Ombudsman (FSO) was established on a statutory basis under the Central Bank and Financial Services Authority Act of 2004 and began operations on 1 April 2005. The Financial Services Ombudsman is an independent officer with the power to investigate, mediate and adjudicate on complaints about the conduct of ‘regulated financial services providers’ involving the provision of a financial service, an offer to provide such a service or