the plant protection product to be introduced is distributed in the Member State of origin if it is considered as necessary for the examination by the competent authority. The competent authority may require a translation of the relevant parts of the original instructions for use, - name and registration number of the reference product, - name and address of the authorisation holder of the reference product, - a draft label for the product intended to be placed on the market, - a sample of the product which is intended to be introduced if it is considered as necessary by the competent authority. 8. The applicant for a parallel trade permit may demonstrate by means of all available and accessible information that the plant protection product intended to be introduced is identical in terms of paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 to the reference product. 9. A plant protection product for which a parallel trade permit has been issued is to be placed on the market and used in accordance with the provisions of the authorisation of the reference product. To meet the requirements of Article 30 and to facilitate monitoring and controls in terms of Article 71 the competent authority may lay down additional requirements for the product to be introduced. 10. The parallel trade permit shall be valid for the duration of authorisation of the reference product. If the authorisation holder of the reference product applies for a withdrawal of authorisation in accordance with Article 46(1) and the requirements of Article 30 are still fulfilled, the validity of the parallel trade permit will expire by the date on which the authorisation of the reference product would normally have expired. 11. Without prejudice to specific provisions in this Article, Articles 45 to 47, 58 and 59(4) and Chapters VI to X shall apply to parallel traded plant protection products correspondingly. 12. Without prejudice to Article 45 a parallel trade permit may be withdrawn if – the authorisation of the introduced plant protection product is withdrawn in the Member State of origin for reasons of safety or efficacy, – the parallel trade permit is misused by the applicant to introduce or place on the market plant protection products which are not authorised in any Member State. 13. Where, with regard to the criteria provided for in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, the assessment carried out by the Member State of introduction shows that the product intended to be introduced is not identical in terms of paragraph 3, 4 or 5 to the reference product, the Member State of introduction may only grant the authorisation required for placing on the market and use in accordance with Article 29. 14. The provisions of this Article do not apply to plant protection products which are authorised in the Member State of origin pursuant to Article 56 or 57. Subsection 6 Derogations Article 56 Emergency situations 1. By way of derogation from Article 29 , in special circumstances a Member State may authorise, for a period not exceeding 120 days, the placing on the market of plant protection