February 2006. , obliging Member States to establish and implement pollution reduction programmes for certain substances. Industrial waste water from tanneries (as well as waste water from other production sectors) may be treated and discharged either in a treatment plant together with urban waste water (under the condition of prevention and pre-treatment measures) or in a separate treatment plant. In the first case the provisions and deadlines of the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive apply, whilst in the second case the provisions and deadlines of the Integrated Prevention and Reduction of Pollution Directive apply, if the treatment capacity of the installation is above the threshold set in the directive (more than 12 tonnes of finished products per day (Annex I.VI.3). Summarising, EU water protection legislation provides for clear, transparent and binding environmental objectives (both emission controls and environmental quality objectives) which inter alia contribute to comparable and predictable obligations for industries. However, environmental objectives set in legislation do as a rule not apply with immediate effect: legislators have decided on time schedules for implementation, as well as for transition provisions in the case of existing installations, and for transition periods for new Member States. As regard the water quality of the Rába River, both Austria and Hungary have within their obligations under the Water Framework Directive reported on the analysis of pressures and impacts. In both countries’ reports it is acknowledged that because of chemical pollution there is a risk of not achieving the environmental quality objective. Consequently, further measures need to be considered. Both countries have also delivered the required joint analysis of pressures and impacts for the whole Danube river basin, together with all the other Danube basin countries. It will be the obligation of all Member States to comply with the provisions and deadlines under the directives listed above. The Commission welcomes that the Environment Ministers of Hungary and Austria have in May 2007 established a high-level task force, with the objective to assess the problem of the Rába River, and to soon come forward with solutions. The Commission wishes to underline in this context that in the case of problems in river basin cooperation arising, and upon request of a Member State, it may act as a facilitator (Article 12 Water Framework Directive).