progressiveness of ACP tariff reductions, which will be tailored to the needs of the regions concerned. This may cover the most sensitive sectors and protect them over a lengthy transition period. This should be more than sufficient to cover for example infant industries and sensitive agricultural products. The ACP would also be able to apply safeguard measures if necessary. The grandest competition faced by primary agricultural products on ACP markets does not come from the EU but from other developing countries. For example, in the case of poultry meat, competition from Brazil and, before the avian flu epidemic, from Thailand. EPAs will be designed to help the ACP agricultural sectors meet the challenge of global competition by improving the development of regional markets, improving their ability to export and improving the overall trade and investment climate. 3. On WTO issues, the Framework Agreement adopted in August 2004 (Annex 1- framework for establishing modalities for agriculture) fully recognises the need for special and differential treatment for the developing countries. A number of measures will be taken to do this. They include longer implementation periods and lower reduction coefficients for the relevant reduction commitments (mainly tariff reductions), official recognition of certain forms of domestic support (Article 6.2 of the Agreement on Agriculture, de minimis clause) and export subsidies (Article 9.4, less stringent disciplines for export subsidies). To protect their markets, ACP countries can designate an appropriate number of sensitive products (like the developing countries) and an appropriate number of special products on the basis of criteria for food security needs, livelihood guarantees and rural development. A special safeguard mechanism will be introduced for the developing countries. These measures will help them protect products which are most vulnerable to a tariff reduction. When the Agreement on Agriculture was adopted in 1994, most ACP countries opted to set consolidated rates far higher than the rates applying. Since tariff reductions will be based on these consolidated rates, they will not usually affect the rates applied. Finally, the less developed countries (LDCs) do not have any reduction commitments.