be organiser of citizens initiative in order to avoid possible abuse of existing business organisations, political parties, etc. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. In order to be eligible to support a proposed citizens' initiative, signatories shall be citizens of the Union and shall be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections . 2. In order to be eligible to support a proposed citizens' initiative, signatories shall be citizens of the Union and shall be at least 16 years old . Justification Article 9 TEU states that all Union's citizens should receive equal attention. Active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity of young people are crucial for the future of Europe. Moreover, supporting an initiative is completely different from the act of voting, therefore, it would be appropriate to involve also young people. Furthermore, linking the minimum age to national voting age would create inequality due to differences in national requirements. Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – title Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Registration of a proposed citizens’ initiative Registration and admissibility of a proposed citizens’ initiative Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Except in the cases foreseen in paragraphs 3 and 4, the Commission shall register without delay the proposed initiative under a unique registration number and send a confirmation to the organiser . 2. The Commission shall , within one month from the request for registration referred to in paragraph 1, take a decision on admissibility. The proposed citizens' initiative shall be considered admissible and therefore registered if it satisfies the following conditions: – it cannot be reasonably regarded as improper because it is abusive or devoid of seriousness; – it does not run counter to the values of the Union ; – it concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties; and – it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission to make a proposal. Amendment 28 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Proposed citizens' initiatives which can be reasonably regarded as improper because they are abusive or devoid of seriousness will not be registered. deleted Amendment 29 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The Commission shall reject the registration of proposed citizens' initiatives which are manifestly against the values of the Union. 4. The Commission shall reject the registration of proposed citizens' initiatives which are manifestly against the values of the Union , as set out in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union . The Commission’s reasons for rejecting the registration of an initiative shall be well-founded and shall be published on the website set up by it for that purpose. Justification Transparency will undoubtedly prove educational and prevent the multiplication of inadmissible or ludicrous initiatives. Amendment 30 Proposal