nature entailing a financial cost for its entire application period; (Amendment 10) Recital 7d (new) (7d) Whereas despite the provisions of the Financial Regulation in force, although the Commission is proposing a multi-annual operation, it accepts, on the one hand, that the financial statement should refer only to the cost of operations for the year 2000, which is estimated at EUR 15 million, and on the other hand it is making provision for an assessment method covering operations implemented over a three-year period; (Amendment 2) Recital 7e (new) (7e) Having regard to the European Parliament resolution of 16 December 1999 on the budget for the financial year 2000, (Amendment 11) (Oral amendment) Recital 8a (new) (8a) Whereas Malta and Cyprus will participate in the MEDA facility as foreseen; (Amendment 11) Recital 8b (new) (8b) Whereas, in the light of the progress made in implementing this programme, the Commission is to revise the financial statement, in particular the estimated schedule of annual commitment appropriations; (Amendment 12) Recital 9a (new) (9a) Whereas the Helsinki European Council called for the opening of negotiations on the accession of Malta to the European Union; (Amendment 13) Recital 9b (new) (9b) Whereas the pre-accession aid for Cyprus and Malta should be entered for the 2001-2004 period under Sub-section B7 (pre-accession aid) in order to be consistent with the provisions in force for the other applicant countries; (Amendment 14) Article 1(1), 3rd indent a (new) - unimpeded funding of the above operations as defined in Article 4 for the entire period of validity of this Regulation, subject to the provisions of Article 10 (Amendment 15) Article 1(2) 2. Acting on a proposal from the Commission, the Council shall decide by qualified majority on the principles, priorities, intermediate objectives and conditions contained in the individual Accession Partnership to be submitted to each applicant State, as well as on subsequent significant adjustments to them. 2. Acting on a proposal from the Commission, and after consulting the European Parliament, the Council shall decide by qualified majority on the principles, priorities, intermediate objectives and conditions contained in the individual Accession Partnership to be submitted to each applicant State, as well as on subsequent significant adjustments to them. (Amendment 16) Article 1(2a) (new) 2a. The appropriations for pre-accession aid shall be determined annually for the budget lines created for this purpose and shall be included in Heading 7 of the Financial Perspective. (Amendment 23) Article 2a (new) Article 2a The financial reference amount of EUR 95 million proposed by the Council for the implementation of this Regulation for the period up to 31 December 2004 seems to be inadequate and should be reviewed in the light of the objectives set in Article 1. The annual appropriations shall be approved by the relevant budgetary authority within the limits of the Financial Perspective. (Amendment 18) Article 3, 2nd indent - any operations to contribute to the reconciliation of the two Cypriot communities. - any operations to contribute to a resumption of reconciliation efforts between the two Cypriot communities. (Amendment 19) Article 5 5. Where an essential