regulation covering the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 shall be transmitted by the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee by 1 June 2010." The current scheme will expire on 31 December 2011. On 26 May 2010 the Commission presented a proposal. Extension However, this proposal is not the requested proposal for a new regulation, but only an extension of the existing one. With a view to the preparation of a new proposal, the Commission only launched a public consultation in March 2010. The results had to be examined, the statistics to be collected and an impact assessment study to be done. Therefore, according to the Commission, the extension is necessary as the remaining period of application of the GSP Regulation is insufficient to permit to the Commission to introduce a proposal for a new regulation and to the Parliament and the Council to reach an agreement on a successor regulation through the ordinary legislative procedure before the expiry of the current GSP Regulation. Your Rapporteur can agree that this extension is necessary to ensure legal certainty and guarantee the interests of both the EU and the beneficiary countries. Nevertheless, your Rapporteur stresses that the extension shall not imply that the current - unsatisfactory - situation is extended for two more years. Lisbon Treaty Being an extension, the proposal, although published long after the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, did not take into account the information sharing and decision making procedures required by the Treaty, which enhanced powers of the European Parliament in trade issues. The current regulation expires two years after the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty. With the extension proposed, this situation would continue for two more years, until 31 December 2013, four years after the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty. Under the current regulation, the Parliament has no say on the criteria for eligibility, on the list of the beneficiary countries, on the list of GSP+ beneficiaries, on the effective implementation of the conventions, on the temporary withdrawal of preferential arrangements, etc. In fact, it is the duty of the Members of the Parliament to ensure that rights and powers which the elected representatives of the people of the European Union acquired with the Lisbon Treaty are respected. Pursuant to Article 207(2) TFEU, the procedure for the adoption and amendment of the GSP Regulation is now the ordinary legislative procedure, which has consequences for the rights Parliament must enjoy in the democratic control of the regulation. Your Rapporteur believes that there are elements of Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 which are necessary to amend in order to respect the new powers acquired by the Parliament with the Lisbon Treaty, in particular to ensure that Parliament's new powers under Article 290 TFEU on delegated acts are respected. In fact, your Rapporteur identifies the measures under the GSP Regulation that are to be considered delegated acts: Article 10(2), Article 11 (7) and (8), Article 16(3), Article 19 (3), (4) and (5), and Article 25, giving