and tax, or are not reserved by it to the articles of association until the definition at Community level of a complete set of rules specific to SPEs covering those fields has been achieved . Justification See the content of the justification to the previous amendments to recitals 2 bis and ter new. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7) In order to make the SPE an accessible company form for individuals and small businesses, it should be capable of being created ex nihilo or of resulting from the transformation, the merger or the division of existing national companies. The creation of an SPE by way of transformation, merger or division of companies should be governed by the applicable national law. (7) In order to make the SPE an accessible company form for individuals and small businesses, it should be capable of being created ex nihilo or of resulting from the transformation, the merger or the division of existing national companies. The creation of an SPE by way of transformation, merger or division of companies should be governed by the applicable national law until the definition at Community level of a complete set of rules specific to SPEs covering those fields has been achieved . Justification See the content of the justification to the previous amendments to recitals 2 bis and ter new. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) In order to reduce the costs and administrative burdens associated with company registration, the formalities for the registration of the SPE should be limited to those requirements which are necessary to ensure legal certainty and the validity of the documents filed upon the creation of a SPE should be subject to a single verification, which may take place either before or after registration. For the purposes of registration, it is appropriate to use the registries designated by First Council Directive 68/151/EEC of 9 March 1968 on the co-ordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the Community. (8) In order to reduce the costs and administrative burdens associated with company registration, the formalities for the registration of the SPE should be limited to those requirements which are necessary to ensure legal certainty and the validity of the documents filed upon the creation of a SPE should be subject to a single verification, which has to take place before registration. For the purposes of registration, it is appropriate to use the registries designated by First Council Directive 68/151/EEC of 9 March 1968 on the co-ordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the Community. Justification Verification after