working lives will, as a matter of course, be longer and more varied, and whereas inter alia lifelong learning, education, the new digital economy, the adaptation to new technologies and the implementation of the EU 2020 goals are ways to secure employment and a better standard of living, G. whereas vocational education and training tailored to learners' individual needs is of decisive value, increasing the possibility for individuals to deal with competitive pressures, increasing the standard of living, and achieving socio-economic cohesion and better integration, in particular of specific groups such as migrants, people with disabilities, or early school-leavers and vulnerable women, H. whereas small businesses have created historically more than 50 % of new jobs in Europe – jobs that are self-sustaining and have a multiplier effect, I. whereas the role of the Member States and the Commission should be primarily to help create an environment where enterprises can succeed, develop and grow – to grow they need a reduced tax burden and predictability so they can plan and make investments, J. whereas, in view of the great differences in the levels of participation of pupils in vocational training in Member States, exchanges of best practices are important in order to increase the number and improve the quality of pupils who opt for technical training in Member States, which fares poorly as far as pupil numbers and quality are concerned, 1. Recognises the importance of modernising vocational education and training, given that human capital is crucial for Europe's success; 2. Recognises the importance of both initial and continuing vocational education and training and maintains that their success hinges on the participation and cooperation of all stakeholders in the design, organisation and financing of strategies to this end; calls on the Member States to make use of the positive experience with the dual system within Vocational Educational and Training (VET) in example countries, where the system has led to the longer-term integration of young workers into the labour market and to higher employment rates for young workers, as well as higher levels of competence which then increase employment prospects at a later age; 3. Recalls that VET programmes should be extended to comply with the principles of life-long learning and initial and continuing training; 4. Stresses the importance of encouraging regular further training courses as part of lifelong learning; 5. Urges the Member States to conclude basic education with a ‘career aptitude’ assessment; 6. Warns that young Europeans may become a lost generation in the absence of practical support to find a job and continue their studies, at a time when worsening poverty is leading to a rise in school absenteeism; 7. Welcomes the Commission measures aimed at breaking down barriers, increasing transparency, and making for ease of comparison for the purposes of recognition within and between education systems; 8. Calls on the Member States to ensure that vocational training and life-long-learning are geared more closely to the needs of the labour market and allow for entry into and mobility within it; stresses. moreover. the need for better and greater interaction between