have some problems related their liability when install a new system if they are not appropriately involved in the development of the technological bases. Amendment 8 Article 2, paragraph 3 3. The Joint Undertaking shall be exempt from taxation by the Member States as regards taxes other than VAT and excise duty. In particular, it shall be exempt from the payment of registration fees and corporate or similar taxes. Salaries paid to staff of the Joint Undertaking shall be exempt from any national income tax. 3. The Joint Undertaking shall be exempt from taxation by the Member States as regards taxes other than VAT and excise duty. In particular, it shall be exempt from the payment of registration fees and corporate or similar taxes. Salaries shall be paid to staff of the Joint Undertaking pursuant to the conditions of employment of other servants of the European Communities . Justification For reasons of legal and social consistency, it is important to clarify that wage levels should be in line with the 'Rules applicable to other servants of the European Communities'. Amendment 9 Article 4, paragraph 1, point (b) b) a possible levy on the air navigation charges within the meaning of the second indent of Article 15(3)(e) of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004. The Commission shall define, in accordance to the procedure referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004, the procedures for collecting and using the this levy. deleted Justification An additional levy on air navigation charges must be avoided. User charges will already contribute to the programme via Eurocontrol. A successful definition phase should deliver a clear business case triggering the necessary private investment (and public funding). Amendment 10 Article 4, paragraph 2 2. The Community’s contribution can be paid from the budget of the research and technological development and the trans-European networks framework programmes. 2. The Community’s contribution can be paid from the budget of the research and technological development. Justification The Trans-European Transport networks form a major tool for achieving the Lisbon Strategy and the objectives of the White Paper on Transport Policy. The agreed budget for TEN-T is already not sufficient to implement all existing priority projects. Amendment 11 Article 6 Every three years from the start of the activities of the Joint Undertaking and upon expiry of the term of the Joint Undertaking, the Commission shall carry out assessments on the implementation of this Regulation, the results obtained by the Joint Undertaking and its working methods. Pursuant to Article 173 of the Treaty, from the start of the activities of the Joint Undertaking and upon expiry of the term of the Joint Undertaking, the Commission shall carry out assessments on the implementation of this Regulation, the results obtained by the Joint Undertaking and its working methods. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council reports on the results of these assessments and on the conclusions to be drawn therefrom. Justification It must be ensured that Parliament and the Council are kept fully and constantly informed of the results and working