camps and other places of mass-civilian martyrdom and extermination, and the keeping alive of the memory of the victims at these sites. 2. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ACTIVITIES SUPPORTED Grants may be awarded to support the activities carried out by the bodies eligible for Community funding under the programme that fall within one of the following areas: 2.1. Part 1: Permanent activities of the following bodies pursuing an aim of general European interest in the field of culture: – European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages, – centres of the Mercator network. 2.2. Part 2: Permanent activities of other bodies pursuing an aim of general European interest in the field of culture or an objective forming part of the European Union's policy in this area. Annual operating grants may be awarded to support the conduct of the permanent work programmes of organisations or networks promoting European culture and cooperation in the cultural sector and making a contribution to cultural life and the management of culture. 2.3. Part 3: actions to preserve and commemorate the main sites and archives associated with the deportations, symbolised by the memorials which have been raised on the sites of the former camps and other places of mass-civilian martyrdom and extermination, and to keep alive the memory of the victims at these sites. 3. SELECTION OF BENEFICIARIES Part 1: Grants under this part of the programme may be awarded to the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages (EBLUL) and the Mercator network centres. The Commission may award these grants upon receipt of an appropriate workplan and budget. Part 2: 1. In order to award the grants under this part of the programme, the Commission shall publish calls for proposals. 2. However, in 2004 and 2005, in derogation to paragraph 1, grants may be awarded to the organisations mentioned in Annex II. 3. In all cases, all requirements of the Financial Regulation, its Implementing Rules and the basic act apply. Part 3: Actions to be supported under this part shall be selected on the basis of calls for proposals. 4. CRITERIA FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF FUNDING APPLICATIONS Applications for operating grants shall be assessed in the light of: - the exchange of experiences promoting a greater cultural diversity; - the mobility of art and artists; – the quality of the planned activities; – the European added value of the planned activities; – the lasting nature of the planned activities; – the visibility of the planned activities; – the representativeness of the bodies. Grants shall be awarded on the basis of a work programme approved by the Commission. Any beneficiary of a grant awarded under any action of this programme, shall indicate in a prominent place, such as a website homepage or an annual report, that it has received funding from the budget of the European Union. 5. FUNDING AND ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURE 5.1. Under part 1, the eligible expenditure of the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator network centres comprises operating costs and expenses for carrying out their actions. 5.2. The grant to the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator