the Management Board, acting upon a proposal from the Executive Director, for a three-year term of office, which shall be renewable, following publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities of a call for expressions of interest. 5. The members of the Scientific Committee that are not members of Scientific Panels and the members of the Scientific Panels shall be appointed by the Management Board, acting upon a proposal from the Executive Director, for a three-year term of office, which shall be renewable, following publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities , relevant leading scientific publications and the Authority's homepage of a call for expressions of interest. Amendment 117 Article 28, paragraph 3, subparagraph 1 3. The implementing rules for the application of this Article shall be established by the Commission after consulting the Authority , in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2). These rules shall specify: 3. The implementing rules for the application of this Article shall be established by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2). Before drawing up the draft implementing rules, however, the Commission shall consult the Authority. The Commission shall consider fully the Authority's opinion and explain how this opinion has been taken into account in the draft implementing rules submitted to the Committee pursuant to Article 57(2). These rules shall specify: Amendment 118 Article 28, paragraph 3, point (a) (a) the procedure to be applied by the Authority to the requests referred to it, laying down in particular the circumstances in which it may refuse or modify a request for an opinion ; (a) the procedure to be applied by the Authority to the requests referred to it; Amendment 119 Article 29, title Conflicting scientific opinions Divergent scientific opinions Amendment 120 Article 29, paragraph 1 1. The Authority shall exercise vigilance in order to identify at an early stage any potential source of conflict between its scientific opinions and the scientific opinions issued by other bodies carrying out similar tasks. 1. The Authority shall exercise vigilance in order to identify at an early stage any potential source of divergence between its scientific opinions and the scientific opinions issued by other bodies carrying out similar tasks. To obtain maximum results and minimise the potential for divergent scientific opinions, the Authority shall cooperate effectively with and involve the relevant national scientific institutions and bodies . Amendment 121 Article 29, paragraph 3 3. Where a substantive conflict over scientific issues has been identified and the body in question is a Community agency or one of the Commission's Scientific Committees, the Authority and the body concerned shall be obliged to cooperate with a view to either resolving the conflict or presenting a joint document to the Commission clarifying the contentious scientific issues. 3. Where a substantive divergence over scientific issues remains after the procedure referred to in paragraph 2, the Authority shall indicate in its opinion the existence of these divergent opinions and shall give its opinion on them so that the Commission, Parliament and Council have comprehensive information