WRITTEN QUESTION E-1175/05 by Frank Vanhecke (NI) to the Commission (30 March 2005) Subject: Plans for a ‘core Europe’ and equality of the EU Member States Various newspapers have been running reports about plans to establish a ‘core Europe’ if Great Britain should not ratify the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. Those ‘secret plans’ were referred to in a remarkable article by Charles Grant, Director of the Centre for European Reform. The plans are said to include, inter alia, integration of the armed forces of a number of countries, harmonisation of criminal law and civil law, the establishment of a European Criminal Court, tax harmonisation, a single seat in international organisations for the EU and the combining of Member State embassies (see De Standaard, edition of 1 March 2005 and The Daily Telegraph, edition of 1 March 2005). That would undoubtedly create legal problems (see Jörg Monar, ‘Options to cope with an emergency: ways out in the event of a crisis over the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty’, European Law, January 2005, pp. 16-32). Although this article principally concerns the situation that would arise in the event of a British refusal to ratify the Treaty, it may also be seen as ‘a political answer’ to cover the eventuality of other Member States not ratifying it. It is claimed that much would depend on which Member State was involved: one of the smaller ones or one of the larger ones, a founder member or not, an enthusiastic member or not. According to Mr Grant, a French ‘No’ would make it impossible for the Treaty to enter into force. On the other hand, a Polish ‘No’ would not necessarily be fatal for the Treaty because, since its accession to the EU, ‘Poland has made a few enemies.’ Rejection by Ireland, Denmark or the Czech Republic would probably result in the Constitution's being put once more to the vote in a second referendum. In that connection, Mr Honor Mahony notes that some Member States are manifestly more equal than others (Honor Mahony, ‘Unofficial Plan B considered in case Britain rejects the Constitution’, Euobserver, 3 March 2005). What is the Commission's opinion of this division of EU Member States into smaller and larger, enthusiastic or less enthusiastic members? Does not the Commission believe that all Member States - irrespective of their identity - are equal? Does not the Commission believe that such equality specifically constituted one of the foundations of the former EEC and of the current EU? Does not such equality imply that every Member State has an equally large influence on the ratification process and that any failure to ratify the Treaty will have an equally significant legal and political impact?