participate in the regulatory process. It had inadequate staff and those involved at line supervisor level in particular were not qualified to make any significant contribution to the process. Insurance division regulators were fundamentally dependent on GAD for advice on the mathematical reserves, implicit items, technical matters generally and PRE and were not individually equipped with specific relevant skills or experience to assess independently the Society's position in these respects (…). For all practical purposes, scrutiny of the actuarial functioning of life offices was in the hands of GAD until the reorganisation under FSA was in place". It adds that " the staffing levels available to the prudential regulators varied but the number of staff with direct responsibility for the Society and their grades within the civil service remained broadly constant ... Increased resources might have improved the chances of identifying problems but... Government required a 'light touch' approach to regulation and allocated resources accordingly "(WE16, par. 39, 158 and159). Finally, Mr. HOLMES (WE 84) concludes by stating that “ even allowing for the discretion which Member States possess in deciding upon an appropriate level of regulatory resources, it must be open to doubt whether the UK provided its competent authorities with the means necessary for supervision, the standard explicitly laid down in the Community legislation since November 1992. On the one hand, it must be asked whether in numerical terms sufficient staff were devoted to the task. On the other hand, it must also be asked whether the personnel that were available were appropriately qualified to provide supervision which was effective.” (See also section II.2. ‘Further evidence on transposition’) 1.B. The ‘powers’ In terms of the powers allocated to the UK regulators, most evidence points to a satisfactory situation where the competent authority had ample, flexible and sufficient powers. The UK's implementing provisions transposing Article 10 give the Secretary of State very comprehensive powers to perform his supervisory functions, his powers in principle at least equivalent to those required by the Directive. These powers include the possibility to force a company to protect policyholders against the risk that the company may be unable to meet its liabilities or to fulfil policyholders' and potential policyholders' reasonable expectations (PRE) As has been mentioned in the section covering article 8, in UK law includes the concept of policy-holders reasonable expectations (PRE). for the purpose of ensuring that the company observes sound and prudent management principles. The question that arises in the ELAS case is not so much whether the Secretary of State had enough powers, which he ostensibly did, but whether he made good use of these extensive powers: Some of the evidence collected so far seems to negate the latter (for detail, see comments on section 3 on PRE). See also section II.2. ‘Further evidence on transposition’. It can therefore be argued that the UK regulators did indeed have at least the ‘powers’ required by the Directive, if not necessarily the ‘means’. 2. Respectful treatment and light touch The second key issue relating to Article 10 is whether the UK regulator made detailed