EL An even tougher stance was taken by policyholders Mr. CHASE GREY (WE9) and Mr. WEIR (WE6), arguing that, in their opinion, there was collusion and obstruction by the regulators to conceal their regulatory failure and responsibilities. In particular, Mr. CHASE GREY (WE9) claimed that " the introduction of the non-guaranteed with-profits policy in 1987constituted a conspiracy to defraud, as defined by English Common Law. The deficient capital position of ELAS and the conspiracy to defraud were discoverable by the Treasury and/or FSA by reasonable inquiry. The British Government ... has consistently acted by obfuscation and obstruction to conceal its failure of regulation ." WE-CONF6 claimed that " over a period of approximately 15 years (1987-2001) both the Society and the regulatory organisations set over it, consistently acted in ways designed to confuse and deceive policyholders, whether actual or prospective." Mr. NASSIM (WE7) specified that "having turned a blind eye to gross solvency risks in 1990-92, the Regulator adopted thereafter a self-protective policy of denial, to conceal the maladministration that had taken place in previous years, and to absolve itself of responsibility when the collapse of the WP Fund eventually manifested itself. It colluded throughout the period 1996-2002 in attributing the circumstances leading to the closure of the WP Fund to problems with Annuity Guarantees, rather than the earlier and far more serious over-bonusing of 1982-87." In WE8 Mr. NASSIM concluded that "when the GAR crisis was precipitated by the House of Lords judgement, there was widespread consternation among the many parties with an interested responsibility in the matter. Naturally enough, none of them can have wished to be held any more accountable for the situation than the emergent facts might ultimately dictate. The overall pattern of events strongly suggests that their first instincts were to review and cover their respective positions, such that their obligations to manage the situation positively may have taken second place. In the case of the Government, Treasury and the regulators this was particularly unfortunate ...". Additional allegations of incompetence and/or collusion were made by Mr. JOSEPHS (WE69) claiming a " multiple deliberate frauds on the part of Equitable Life against its customers, over a period of approximately 15 years. Since the key information pointing to those frauds was available in the Regulatory Returns over an extended period of years, we must also conclude that the Regulators were guilty of gross regulatory failure, in failing to draw Ministers’ attention to what was happening and in failing to use their extensive powers to correct the situation." Thus, fraud was allegedly permitted to happen by regulators either "due to sheer incompetence, flowing from the dysfunctional organisation structure under which the regulators were required to work, combined with inadequate training and supervision, or due to collusion, most probably in the form of an informal and inadequately considered Ministerial instruction to afford Equitable Life some temporary exemption from the strict application of the prudential regulations ... The fact that such an instruction would have been unlawful might explain why it was never rescinded!" WE69 continued claiming that " Equitable introduced the