Answer given by Mr Lamy on behalf of the Commission (23 September 2004) The Commission regards the negotiations on Economic Partnership Agreements and the negotiations on the Doha Development Agenda in the WTO as entirely complementary. Both have so far progressed according to their own rhythms with a noticeable acceleration in the negotiations in recent months. First, the framework agreement reached in Geneva at the end of July 2004 on the modalities for the negotiations of the Doha Development Agenda (DDA), has put the World Trade Organisation (WTO) negotiations back on track. Second, as regards the EPA negotiations regional negotiations were officially launched in July 2004 with the Southern African Development Community (SADC) in Namibia, joint Roadmaps were agreed with both the SADC and the Central African region (Communauté Economique et Monétaire de l’Afrique Centrale – CEMAC), and substantive negotiations took place at both technical and Senior Official levels in the negotiations with the Caribbean and the Eastern and Southern African regions (CARIFORUM and ESA). Western African countries are due to meet in August 2004 at Ministerial level and are expected to endorse the draft Joint Roadmap, which has already been agreed at technical level. EPA negotiations with the Pacific region were launched in Fiji on 10 September 2004. Other regions are preparing Senior Official meetings, technical meetings and orientation seminars which are taking place during the autumn 2004. In the Commission’s view, this amply demonstrates that EPA negotiations are now entering into a more substantial and intense phase and that, if anything, recent months have witnessed an acceleration of the EPA process. On the issue of the WTO compatibility of the future EPAs, we do not have to wait for the results of the multilateral trade negotiations to make progress. The major issue where WTO rules have an impact on EPA negotiations is market access, and this is not the first priority of the EPA negotiations. We have always considered that WTO rules offer enough flexibility for the EPA negotiations, and in the spirit of the Doha Development Agenda, development interests of developing countries are at the core of the multilateral trade negotiations. So the necessary flexibility for WTO compliance should remain when DDA will be concluded. The Honourable Member can rest assured that the Commission is committed to having DDA and EPA progress in parallel, to full complementarity between the two, and to working in both arenas with a view to improving our long-standing trade partnership with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries and to building the regional markets among ACP countries necessary for their long term sustainable development.