in the reform of the rules and procedures geared to deficit restraint and budget stability. I participated in these decisions as an adviser, as a member of working groups, and as an author of academic and professional publications. 4. Do you have any business or financial holdings or any other commitments which might conflict with your prospective duties, and are there any other relevant personal or other factors that need to be taken account of by the Parliament when considering your nomination? I have neither any business or financial holdings nor any other commitments which might conflict with the duties of an ECB board member. Apart from that, I am not aware of any personal or other factors that might need to be taken into account by the European Parliament with respect to my nomination. B. Monetary and economic policy 5. What would be the guiding objectives you will pursue during your eight-year mandate as a Member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank? First, while adhering to the highest possible degree of professionalism and integrity, I would be committed to the achievement of the ECB’s primary objective as laid down in the Treaty, namely the maintenance of price stability. Second, I would act in the general interest of the euro area as a whole. Third, I would fulfil my functions and roles with independence, while maintaining a high level of transparency and accountability. And fourth, I would strive to perform my duties in accordance with the principle of collegiality in the functioning of the decision-making bodies of the ECB. 6. Given the fact that the recently clarified ECB's definition of price stability is inflation rates for the Euro area "below, but close to, 2% over the medium term", how do you contest the view that explicit inflation forecasts over this medium term would improve the ECB's communication policy? My own recollection is that in 1998 the Governing Council announced that its monetary policy strategy was going to be based on a quantitative definition of price stability, defined as a year-on-year increase in the HICP of below 2%. In May 2003 the Governing Council confirmed its definition of price stability and clarified that, in the pursuance of price stability, its aim was for inflation rates in the euro area below but close to 2%. That said, I believe inflation forecasts are a useful tool for organising a large body of economic data. In this respect, they are an important piece of information for the policymaker. This assessment lies behind the Governing Council’s decision to publish the Eurosystem staff’s macroeconomic projections on a bi-annual basis, a process which fully harnesses the technical expertise existing both at the local NCB level and at the ECB. However, in my view inflation projections cannot be an all-encompassing tool for the policy-decision process or for the external communication of policy decisions, as they may have a number of drawbacks. For example, one should never forget that inflation forecasts are model-specific and cannot take into consideration in a timely manner all available data and analyses. This