went on to state that " if the Board was aware, when the Scheme documentation was issued ... and debated in court, that the 2.5% uplift was likely to be entirely illusory unless there was some immediate and unheralded rise in equity markets (when 56% of funds were held in cash and fixed interest securities in any event) that was surely something that ought to have been mentioned to those, including the court, from whom approval of the Scheme was being sought. As it was, the financial information provided as part of the scheme documentation was seriously out of date by the time the merits of the scheme came to be debated. But the Society's board clearly did have financial information more recent than that ... which would have shown that the Scheme uplifts in policy values were likely to be illusory." (par. 9 and 10) As a consequence, Mr. BOSWOOD concluded suggesting that " those responsible concealed information which they knew to be relevant to the Scheme." 3f) Claims of EL management not qualifying as 'fit and proper' In the context of the alleged withholding of information when presenting the Compromise Scheme to policyholders, in 2005 EMAG sent a request to the FSA to open an investigation under Section 168 of FSMA 2000, in order to verify if 3 EL top managers (the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Appointed Actuary) qualified as 'fit and proper persons' to perform their functions. If, in the light of evidence presented on the Scheme, the FSA investigation came to the conclusion that they had indeed withheld key information, they might not qualify as 'fit and proper' to perform their function. In that case, the FSA could withdraw that person's approval or take disciplinary proceedings under Section 63 and 66 of FSMA 2000. Mr. Anthony BOSWOOD, QC (WE76) agreed to the point that if it was proven that EL top managers might have " concealed information which they knew to be relevant to the Scheme ... deliberate concealment of that nature would, in turn, suggest that the persons concerned might not be 'fit and proper persons', the precondition for the exercise of the FSA power to investigate " in Section 168(5) of FSMA 2000. In a letter of 21 August 2006, the FSA stated that they "did not consider that there is cogent and compelling evidence and reasoning which leads to the prima facie view that information was deliberately concealed from us, the court or policyholders between December 2001 and February 2002", concluding that they " stand by the analysis and conclusions set out in our statement at the time of the Compromise Scheme ." The evidence sighted gave no indication the FSA has been willing - or shown any intention of - formally opening such an investigation. 4. Negligence in Conduct of Business (CoB) supervision Allegations of CoB failure were addressed by a large number of policyholders not only against the UK regulators but also against the Irish Regulator (DETE/ISFRA) The Central Bank and Financial Services Authority of Ireland Act 2003 stated that prudential