and distributed in all the official languages, unless Parliament decides otherwise. Parliament may not decide otherwise if at least forty Members object. Rule 139 shall apply mutatis mutandis to this paragraph. Oral amendments tabled in committee may be put to the vote unless one of the committee's members objects. Rule 151 Admissibility of amendments 1. No amendment shall be admissible if: (a) it does not directly relate to the text which it seeks to amend; (b) it seeks to delete or replace the whole of a text; (c) it seeks to amend more than one of the individual articles or paragraphs of the text to which it relates. This provision shall not apply to compromise amendments nor to amendments which seek to make identical changes to a particular form of words throughout the text; (d) it is established that the wording in at least one of the official languages of the text it is sought to amend does not call for amendment; in this case, the President shall seek out a suitable linguistic remedy together with those concerned. 2. An amendment shall lapse if it is inconsistent with decisions previously taken on the text during the same vote. 3. The President shall decide whether amendments are admissible. The President's decision pursuant to paragraph 3 concerning the admissibility of amendments is not based exclusively on the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Rule but on the provisions of the Rules in general. 4. A political group or at least forty members may table an alternative motion for a resolution to a non-legislative motion for a resolution contained in a committee report. In such a case, the group or the members concerned may not table amendments to the motion for a resolution by the committee responsible. The alternative motion for a resolution may not be longer than the committee's motion for a resolution. It shall be put to a single vote in Parliament without amendment. Rule 103(4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. Rule 152 Voting procedure 1. The following voting procedure shall apply to reports: (a) first, voting on any amendments to the text with which the report of the committee responsible is concerned, (b) second, voting on the text as a whole, amended or otherwise, (c) third, voting on amendments to the motion for a resolution/draft legislative resolution, (d) finally, voting on the motion for a resolution/draft legislative resolution as a whole (final vote). Parliament shall not vote on the explanatory statement contained in the report. 2. The following procedure shall apply to second readings: (a) where no proposal to reject or amend the Council's common position has been tabled, the common position shall be deemed to have been approved in accordance with Rule 67; (b) a proposal to reject the common position shall be voted upon before voting on any amendments (see Rule 61(1)); (c) where several amendments to the common position have been tabled they shall be put to the vote in the order set out in Rule 155; (d) where Parliament has proceeded to a vote to amend the