Answer given by Mr Cioloş on behalf of the Commission (14 June 2010) The EU financed study ‘Provision of Public goods through agriculture in the European Union’ was carried out by the Institute for European Environmental Policy (IEEP) and published http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/analysis/external/public-goods/index_en.htm in January 2010. Its purpose was to examine the concept of public goods and derive conclusions for policy measures to encourage the provision of public goods by agriculture. This study is an element to be used in ongoing reflections on the future of the common agricultural policy (CAP) post‑2013. Indeed, the Commission is of the opinion that the preservation of the environment and the provision of environmental public goods are of great importance and it is part of the objective of sustainable growth of the strategy ‘Europe 2020’. The study demonstrates that the CAP with its complementary mechanisms (direct payments, cross compliance, and rural development measures) plays a critical role in encouraging farmers to deliver public goods, in particular with respect to preserving the rural environment and landscapes and as well as securing the production capacity. Those public goods have important spill-over effects on rural activities such as rural tourism. Decoupled direct payments in combination with cross-compliance contribute to providing basic public goods Rural development policy provides a framework for targeted measures to encourage the provision of public goods. This framework has an important potential to respond to specific regional needs and challenges. It enables Member States to pursue a coherent, integrated approach and to maximise synergies between measures. Many of the public goods have a strong cross border impact or are matters of EU common interest. Therefore, securing their provision is a matter of EU policy concerns. Furthermore, financial solidarity, better coordination, and taking advantages of common experience and mutual learning are ingredients of an EU approach. The discussions on the budget review post-2013 will have to take into account the important role of agriculture in providing public goods in line with needs and commonly shared objectives.