give a full report to the competent committee on the implementation and efficiency of such loan programmes on the earliest occasion; 11. Notes that the Agency has in the meantime reinforced its accounting staff and instruments and hopes that the improvements undertaken in 2004 will put an end to the repetition of negative remarks by the ECA on this issue; 12. Is pleased to note that the average time taken by the EAR to make payments for assistance programmes in 2003 was 9 days; 13. Notes the specific conditions under which the Agency is operating and expresses its recognition for the achievements of the Agency in the fulfilment of its mandate; calls on the Commission to give the necessary support to the EAR to ensure its full adaptation to the procedures and requirements of the new position of the Agency within the Commission (following enlargement); 14. Notes that since 2003 major changes in the tender system have been undertaken, which should guarantee the transparent treatment of each tender; 15. Welcomes in this respect the immediate action taken by the Director of the Agency when discovering irregularities in the conclusion of one of the major infrastructure contracts, including the automatic suspension of the person responsible and the transmission of the dossier to OLAF; encourages both the Director and the Commission, as well as the ECA, to go on with this procedure of immediate action and to enhance the required risk analysis in particular as regards sectors with a high risk profile; 16. Notes that OLAF found strong evidence that the successful firm received assistance from the Agency employee suspended in connection with the infrastructure contract in question in preparing the documents relating to its bid OLAF fifth activity report for the year ending June 2004 (Case Study, p. 34) ; points out that, under the rules governing calls for tenders, even the attempt by a tenderer to obtain confidential information concerning a call for tenders procedure entails his exclusion from the procedure; 17. Fails to understand why, according to information supplied by the Commission ("Questions for written answers to Commissioners Michel and Ferrero-Waldner" of 3 December 2004) the OLAF final report on this case could not be submitted to members of the Agency's Governing Board; expects this situation to be remedied forthwith so that the Agency's supreme decision-taking body can form a complete picture of events; 18. Urges the EAR Director in future to apply Article 103 of the Financial Regulation consistently and to suspend the execution of contracts where serious errors or irregularities or fraud have occurred in the award procedure; 19. Calls on the EAR Director, the Commissioner responsible, the ECA and the OLAF Director to inform the European Parliament as soon as possible of such actions and findings; 20. Notes the report of the Commission's Internal Audit Service on the activities of the EAR, in line with the request in the European Parliament's 2002 discharge of the Agency; Legality and regularity of the underlying transactions 21. Notes the ECA's call for a reduction in the number of authorising officers (56