trend observed. In order to release the reserves, either fully or partially, before Parliament's second reading, the Commission shall: - justify the administrative share compared to other EU donors - explain the sharp rise in such costs over the current FP - set out its reasons for requesting these appropriations in relation to the overall objective, i.e. to ensure high quality external programmes that contribute, inter alia, to the millennium development goals while ensuring that as high a proportion of funds as possible reach the final beneficiaries. - set out any measures taken to halt this rise in administrative expenditure 15.9.2006 OPINION of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the Committee on Budgets on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2007 ( C6-0299/2006 - 2006/2018(BUD) ) Section III – Commission Draftsperson: István Szent-Iványi SUGGESTIONS The Committee on Foreign Affairs calls on the Committee on Budgets, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Regrets that the structure of the 2007 PDB, based on the merger of several previously separate budget lines, hinders effective parliamentary oversight and adequate priority setting; welcomes in this context the agreement reached on the pre-accession, new neighbourhood and stability instruments after the exchange of letters between the institutions, which, inter alia, outline the mechanisms for implementing the declarations on democratic scrutiny and coherence of external actions attached to the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, since such agreement provides for greater insight into the implementation of the Community's financial assistance; 2. Points out that, since the Commission has submitted a proposal for a separate instrument for human rights, the budget nomenclature needs to be adapted to the new situation; 3. Takes the view that recourse to the margin of EUR 110 million available under heading 4 is unavoidable, given the number of already identifiable challenges; 4. Considers that the EU should focus its limited financial resources on regions and issues where its assistance can make a real difference; 5. Reaffirms the need to earmark sufficient resources for implementing the EU's Thessaloniki Agenda and facilitating the gradual European integration of the Western Balkan countries, and insists on the inclusion in the budget of an indicative breakdown of allocations per country to allow better oversight and comparison; 6. Expects the Council and the Commission to keep Parliament fully informed about preparations for the future EU mission in Kosovo; urges them to use CFSP/ESPD mechanisms and Community resources in a coordinated and coherent fashion so as to optimise their impact; 7. Will agree to a substantial increase of CFSP expenditure only if the provisions of the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management are strictly complied with; 8. Stresses the need gradually to achieve a proportionally equal allocation of resources for the European Neighbourhood and Partnership (ENP) financial co-operation both with Mediterranean countries and Eastern European countries, in order to strengthen stability, security and democracy throughout Europe and beyond; 9. Reiterates its view that, with the exception of humanitarian aid, assistance to