for their development, subsidiarity, added value and impact on other sectors. There is a need, however, to maintain a balance between the three objectives of the programme, allocating budget resources fairly between them. Amendment 21 Recital 30 a (new) (30a) Practical measures are essential in order to attain the objectives of the programme. Consequently, when implementing the programme and earmarking resources under it, the importance of practical measures should be emphasised. Amendment 22 Recital 37 (37) The programme of Community action in the field of public health builds on the activities and the programmes under the previous framework , in order to ensure a smooth transition therefrom, while adapting and expanding on their actions where justified by the results of the evaluation . The decisions concerning those programmes are covered by the new programme and should therefore be repealed with effect from the date of entry into force of this Decision. (37) The programme of Community action in the field of public health builds on the activities and the programmes under the previous framework and on the network for epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases in the Community , and pursues all the objectives and measures therein in the form of a global and integrated health strategy . The decisions concerning those programmes are covered by the new programme and should therefore be repealed with effect from the date of entry into force of this Decision. Amendment 23 Article 2, paragraph 1 1. The programme, which shall complement national policies, shall aim to protect human health and improve public health. 1. The programme, which shall complement national policies, shall aim to protect human health and improve public health , and to attain a high level of physical and mental health and well-being and greater equity in health matters throughout the Community by directing action towards improving public health, preventing diseases and disorders and eliminating sources of danger to health, with the objective of combating morbidity and premature mortality, while taking gender and age into consideration. These actions shall be guided by the need to increase life expectancy without disability or illness, improve the quality of life and reduce to a minimum the financial and social impact of ill-health, thereby evening out the inequalities regarding health, while also taking account of regional issues regarding health. Priority shall be given to health protection measures in respect of the most serious diseases. The programme shall support the development of an integrated intersectoral health strategy to ensure that Community policies and actions contribute to protecting and promoting health. Amendment 24 Article 2, paragraph 2, point (c) (c) to promote health and prevent disease through action on health determinants and across all policies and activities. (c) to address health determinants across all policies and activities through health promotion and disease prevention measures. Amendment 26 Article 3, paragraph 1 1. The general objectives of the programme as set out in Article 2 shall be pursued by means of the actions, the operational content of which is described in the Annex. 1. The general objectives of the programme