mirage because the whole of final bonus was contractually removable at any time, so that the price of increased ‘efficiency’ for the Society was substantially increased risk for the policyholder. These risks were deliberately concealed from the customers affected by such deliberate policy restructuring . " 4d) Claims of communication failure between UK regulators Mr. NASSIM (WE7) claimed that " the prudential regulators failed to communicate effectively with those responsible for the regulation of the conduct of business by insurance companies, particularly in relation to ELAS’ published actuarial and insurance business paradigm, or to advise the Conduct of Business Regulators that the realistic position rather than the solvency position was the primary reference for potential customers". ES-2 considered that in the UK " the prudential regulators did non see it as part of their remit to keep the CoB-regulators informed of problems in the life industry... There was little or no practical cooperation between them until the staff responsible for prudential supervision found themselves in the same building as the staff responsible for CoB ... Even then, it would take some time for each side to ... learn how to work together." On this issue, the FSA representative Mr. STRACHAN (H4) explained that " there are broadly three sets of circumstances in which communications between regulators should formally take place. Those are when a company that has branched into other Member States becomes insolvent; when a company that has branched is de-authorised for any reason and when there are changes in circumstances, such as the closure of the branch. The first two conditions – insolvency and de-authorisation – were never triggered, so they are not relevant. When the branches in Ireland and Germany were physically closed following Equitable’s closure to new business, then there was contact with our counterparts at the time." Mr. BAYLISS (H5) also stated that " there is no doubt that the FSA has done a lot of work on the part of its mandate in relation to prudential management of companies, and particularly in relation to with-profit ... The FSA has been much more active on the conduct of business, because that was perceived to be the industry’s weakness ... I think that in terms of its conduct of business requirement, the regulator was going through a learning curve and one that it could justifiably say was new, because to be honest the Treasury and the DTI had not had that type of role. 4e) Communications between UK and foreign regulators UK/Germany Evidence seen in WE-CONF9 and WE-CONF17 suggested that the first contacts between UK and German regulators on prudential supervision issues concerning Equitable Life date as far back as 1995 The German implementation law for the Third Life Directive came into force on 21 July 1994. , after EL opened its German branch in Cologne in December 1992 and began selling policies by authorized agents. On 20 March 1995, the Bundesaufsichtsamt für das Versicherungswesen The current German single financial regulator, BaFin, was created in May 2002. (BAV) with reference to Article 5.32 of the Siena Protocol, wrote