7. Food that complies with specific Community provisions governing food safety shall be deemed to be safe insofar as the aspects covered by the specific Community provisions are concerned. Amendment 67 Article 12, paragraph 8 8. Where there are no specific Community provisions, food shall be deemed to be safe when it conforms to the specific provisions of national food law of the Member State in whose territory the food is in circulation, such provisions being drawn up and applied without prejudice to the Treaty, and in particular Articles 28 and 30 thereof. 8. Where there are no specific Community provisions, food shall be deemed to be safe when it conforms to the specific provisions of national food law of the Member State in whose territory the food is in circulation, bearing in mind Europe's rich heritage of traditional local foods and methods of preparation, such provisions being drawn up and applied without prejudice to the Treaty, and in particular Articles 28 and 30 thereof. Where food proves to pose a risk despite compliance with Community and national provisions, the principle referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply. Amendment 68 Article 13, paragraph 3 3. Where a feed which has been identified as not satisfying the feed safety requirement is part of a batch, lot or consignment of feed of the same class or description, it shall be presumed that all of the feed in that batch, lot or consignment is so affected, unless following a detailed assessment there is no evidence that the rest of the batch, lot or consignment fails to satisfy the feed safety requirement. 3. Where a feed product which has been identified as not satisfying the feed product safety requirement is part of a batch, lot or consignment of feed products of the same class or description, it shall be presumed that all of the feed products in that batch, lot or consignment are so affected, unless following a detailed assessment there is no evidence that the rest of the batch, lot or consignment fails to satisfy the feed product safety requirement. That batch, lot or consignment shall systematically be destroyed. Amendment 69 Article 14, paragraph 1 1. Food business operators shall ensure that all stages of production and distribution under their control are carried out in such a manner that food complies with the relevant provisions of food law, and in particular, food safety. 1. Food business operators shall , in so far as they are able, ensure at each stage of production , transport or distribution that food placed on the market complies with the relevant provisions of food law, and in particular, food safety. Amendment 70 Article 14, paragraph 2 2. A food business operator shall immediately inform the competent authorities if he considers or suspects that a food which it has placed on the market may be potentially injurious to human health. The operators shall inform the competent authorities of the action taken to prevent risks to the final consumer. 2. A food business operator shall immediately inform the competent authorities if he