1696 on 31 July 2006, the representative of the US Administration said that 'Iran had defied the international community by continuing its pursuit of nuclear weapons' and 'posed a direct threat to international peace and security' which demanded a 'tough resolution', F. whereas the European Council, in its conclusions of 16 December 2007, calls on Iran 'to provide full, clear and credible answers to the IAEA, to resolve all questions concerning Iran's nuclear activities, to ratify and implement the Additional Protocol and to fully implement the provisions of the Comprehensive Safeguard Agreement, including its subsidiary arrangements'; whereas the conclusions further emphasise that 'carrying out these actions and the transparency measures as requested by the IAEA would constitute a positive step to build confidence concerning Iran's nuclear programme', G. whereas on 6 June 2006 the European Union's High Representative, Javier Solana, presented to Iran, on behalf of China, France, Germany, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States, a set of far-reaching proposals for a comprehensive agreement, including active support in the building of light-water power reactors in Iran, participation in a uranium-enrichment facility in Russia, legally binding assurances relating to the supply of nuclear material (not dependent on a single foreign supplier), and a substantive cooperation package in the area of less proliferation-sensitive nuclear research and development, including a trade and cooperation agreement with the European Union, H. having regard to the six-nation foreign minister meeting on the Iranian nuclear issue held in Berlin on 22 January 2008, I. having regard to the recent nuclear cooperation agreements which France concluded with the United Arab Emirates, Algeria and Libya, On human rights and democracy: J. whereas the situation in Iran regarding civil and political rights has continued to deteriorate since the presidential elections of June 2005, K. whereas Iran has undertaken to promote and protect human rights and fundamental freedoms under various international instruments, L. whereas the registration period for candidates for the Majlis parliamentary elections in March 2008 ended on 10 January 2008; whereas the Ministry of the Interior will be announcing the decisions from 22 January 2008; and whereas the Guardian Council, which supervises the validity of the elections in accordance with the Constitution, has the right to disqualify candidates, M. whereas in 2007 at least 312 people, including child offenders, were executed in Iran, the true figure being possibly much higher, N. whereas television, the print media and the Internet all suffer under heavy censorship, O. whereas hundreds of professors have been removed from their teaching posts under the accusation of being too secular, and whereas numerous students have been arrested following protests, such as those participating in the demonstrations for National University Students' Day on 7 December 2007, P. whereas active campaigners for respect for human rights, such as trade unionists or members of the One Million Signatures Campaign for women's rights, risk persecution, Q. whereas members of ethnic and religious minorities, such as Azeris, Sufis and Sunnis, continue to face repression of their cultural and civil rights; whereas members of certain minorities, such as Ahwasis, Kurds, Baluchs or