Guillermo Fariñas unlikely to be able to receive Sakharov Prize in person Human rights 2010-12-14 - 13:15 Guillermo Fariñas is the winner of this year's Sahkarov Prize for Freedom of Thought. The award ceremony takes place, most likely with an empty chair, on Wednesday, 15 December, in Strasbourg. President Buzek deeply regrets that Mr Fariñas has not been given permission to leave Cuba in order to receive the prize in person. During the opening of the plenary session president Buzek declared the following with regard to this year's winner of the Sakharov prize: "On October 21 Cuban dissident Guillermo Fariñas was chosen as the winner of this year's Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought. Regrettably, Mr Fariñas is experiencing problems leaving the country, even though I made a personal appeal in a letter to the President of Cuba, Mr Raul Castro. We expect that Lady Ashton will take due note of these problems and that she will take this into account in future relations with Cuba. If Guillermo Fariñas were to leave in the next few hours, he could still be here in time to receive his prize". The Sakharov ceremony will take place on Wednesday as scheduled, at 13.00h. Guillermo Fari ñas is the third winner from Cuba to receive the €50,000 prize, after Oswaldo José Payá Sardiñas in 2002 and Ladies in White in 2005. A doctor of psychology, journalist and former soldier, 48-year-old Guillermo Fariñas's has denounced the Castro regime. He is the founder of "Cubanacán Press," an independent press agency aimed at raising awareness of the fate of political prisoners in Cuba. Fariñas has spent years in confinement and has gone on hunger strike 23 times so far, a non-violent means of fighting oppression in Cuba. His efforts to secure free internet for all earned him a Reporters Without Borders Cyber-Freedom Prize in 2006. "Guillermo Fariñas was ready to sacrifice and risk his own health and life as a means of pressure to achieve change in Cuba. I hope to hand over the award to him in person, here in Strasbourg, in December, which would be a tremendous moment for the European Parliament and for all Cuban prisoners of conscience," said Mr Jerzy Buzek, president of the European Parliament. In July, Mr Fariñas nearly died after a five-month-long hunger strike he began on February 24, following the death of Orlando Zapata Tamayo, a fellow political activist who passed away after 80 days of fasting. He ended the strike after the Cuban government gave in to his plea and released 52 political prisoners. MEPs backing Mr Fariñas' nomination said his "struggle has been, and still is, a shining example for all defenders of freedom and democracy." José Ignacio Salafranca (EPP, SP) described Mr Fariñas as "the epitome of someone defending peaceful resistance." 20101213BKG09328 Fariñas chosen from three finalists Guillermo Fariñas competed with Israeli NGO Breaking the Silence and Ethiopian politician Birtukan Mideksa, also shortlisted for the 2010 Sakharov Prize. Mr Fariñas was nominated by the Group of the European People's Party, the European Conservatives and Reformists Group, Edvard Kožušník