– did not request a retrial or an appeal in the applicable timeframe , which shall be a minimum of 10 days and a maximum of 15 days ; Amendment 30 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 3 – point 2 - subpoint b Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA Article 7 – paragraph 2 – point i a (new) (ia) according to the certificate provided for in Article 4, the person did not appear in person, unless the certificate states that the person, having been expressly informed about the proceedings and the possibility of participating in person in the trial, expressly waived the right to an oral hearing and expressly indicated that he or she did not contest the case. Amendment 31 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 3 – point 3 Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA Annex – box h – point 3 - introductory part and subpoints 1 and 2 3. Indicate if the decision was rendered in absentia : 3. Indicate if the person appeared in person at the trial which led to the decision : 1. ? No, it was not 1. ? Yes, the person appeared in person at the trial which led to the decision. 2. ? Yes, it was. If you have answered yes, please confirm that: 2. ? No, the person did not appear in person at the trial which led to the decision. If you answered "no" to this question, please indicate if: Amendment 32 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 3 – point 3 Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA Annex – box h – point 3 - subpoint 2.1 2.1 the person was summoned in person or informed in accordance with the national law of the issuing Member State through a competent representative and in due time, of the scheduled date and place of the hearing which led to the decision rendered in absentia and informed about the fact that such a decision may be handed down in case the person does not appear for the trial 2.1 the person was directly summoned in person or by other means actually received, in accordance with the national law of the issuing State, official information in due time and in a language which he or she understood, about the scheduled date and place of the trial which led to the decision in such a manner that it was unequivocally established that the person concerned was aware of the scheduled date and place of the trial and was personally informed that such a decision may be handed down if he or she did not appear at the trial Time and place when and