the USA's National Institute of Standards and Technology. NIST SP 800-88 is a Special Publication of NIST that was issued in Sept 2006 and was sponsored by the US Homeland Security Department. It is a document that describes ‘Media Sanitisation’ — the document is an attempt to standardise how various media of US federal agencies should be sanitised before disposal or reuse. The NIST SP 800-88 document can be downloaded from the following website: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-88/NISTSP800-88_rev1.pdf and many others. Also technical solutions, both commercial and free of charge, are available, which allow erasing digital storage media in such a way that recovering data from them becomes extremely difficult and expensive, if at all possible. Where such measures are still considered insufficient, physical destruction of the media still remains an additional option for disposal and the user should make his judgment based on the sensitivity of the data concerned and other relevant factors. Another technical solution already available is automatic encryption of data on hard disks. By doing so, the personal computer would not only be protected against the dangers described by the Honourable Member, but also against abuse of data in case of loss or theft. The use of such technology, however, would require proper awareness of the user of how to use such a tool. This includes safe storage and management of the encryption key/password, which is needed for normal data access. To further improve security of personal data processing, the Commission is also investing in research and fostering adoption of its results through the European Research Framework Programme and the European Competitiveness and Innovation Research Programme (CIP The Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP) aims to encourage the competitiveness of European enterprises. With small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) as its main target, the programme will support innovation activities (including eco-innovation), provide better access to finance and deliver business support services in the regions. It will encourage a better take-up and use of information and communications technologies (ICT) and help to develop the information society. It will also promote the increased use of renewable energies and energy efficiency. ). This concerns, inter alia , fields like encryption, trusted computing, biometrics, other privacy enhancing technologies and secure information management.