relating to sanctions set out in Annex VII to Parliament's Rules of Procedure shall apply. 3.4 With a view to the implementation of the provisions set out above, Parliament shall ensure that the following arrangements are actually put in place: - a secure archive system for documents classified as confidential; - a secure reading room (without photocopying machines, telephones, fax facilities, scanners or any other technical equipment for the reproduction and transmission of documents, etc.); - security provisions governing access to the reading room, including the requirements of signature in an access register and a solemn declaration not to disseminate the confidential information examined. 3.5 The Commission shall take all the measures required for the implementation of the provisions of this Annex. Annex 2 : Timetable for the Commission legislative and work programme 1. In February, the President of the Commission and/or the Vice-President responsible for inter-institutional relations shall present the Annual Policy Strategy decision (APS) for the following year to the Conference of Presidents. 2. At the February-March part-session, the Institutions concerned shall take part in a debate on the main lines of the political priorities, based on the APS decision for the following year. 3. Following that debate, the competent parliamentary committees and the relevant Members of the Commission shall conduct a regular bilateral dialogue throughout the year to assess the state of implementation of the current Commission legislative and work programme and discuss the preparation of the future programme in each of their specific areas. Each parliamentary committee shall regularly report on the outcome of those meetings to the Conference of Committee Chairs. 4. The Conference of Committee Chairs shall hold a regular exchange of views with the Commission Vice-President responsible for inter-institutional relations, in order to assess the state of implementation of the current Commission legislative and work programme, discuss the preparation of the future programme, and take stock of the results of the on-going bilateral dialogue between the parliamentary committees concerned and relevant Members of the Commission. 5. In September, the Conference of Committees Chairs shall submit a summary report to the Conference of Presidents, which shall inform the Commission thereof. 6. At the November part-session, the President of the Commission shall present before Parliament the Commission's legislative and work programme for the following year, with the College taking part. This presentation shall include an assessment of the implementation of the current programme. The presentation shall be followed by the adoption of a Parliament resolution at the December part-session. 7. The Commission's legislative and work programme shall be accompanied by a list of legislative and non-legislative proposals for the following year, in a form to be decided To be included: calendar and, where appropriate, legal basis and budgetary implications. . The programme shall be forwarded to Parliament in sufficient time before the part-session at which it is to be debated. 8. This timetable shall be applied to each regular programming cycle, except for Parliament election years coinciding with the end of the Commission’s term of office. 9. This timetable shall not prejudice any future agreement on inter-institutional