non-prosecution of drug-use offences implemented in some Member States, M. whereas research and evidence-based and well-considered assessment are needed in order to determine whether the policies pursued on the basis of the UN Convention on drugs are effective in reducing the supply and demands for drugs, health risks and drug-related crime; N. whereas the UN Conventions on drugs provide mechanisms for amendment, reservations, reclassification and/or repeal, 1. Shares the views of the UN that there is an urgent need to fight drug dependence and the crime connected therewith and to reduce the harm caused thereby ; 2. Notes that the UN Ministerial Conference, to be held on 16 and 17 April 2003 in Vienna, constitutes an important forum in which current drug policies may be evaluated and reaffirmed, reservations expressed and any need for change discussed; 3. Welcomes the fact that, on the basis of the studies undertaken by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the effectiveness of alternative harm -reduction strategies is now recognised at EU level; 4. Notes the criticisms levelled by the UN International Narcotics Control Board at the proposals in favour of the liberalisation of drug consumption; 5. Urges the Member States to incorporate in their programmes to combat drug abuse measures designed to reduce the demand for illicit drugs; 6. Notes that the UN Conventions on drugs include provisions for changes to be made, in particular the reclassification of the substances listed and the amendment of the text itself, and that they also provide mechanisms for reservations and termination; 7. Urges the European Union representatives attending the UN Ministerial Conference in Vienna on 16 and 17 April 2003 to call on the competent authorities of the UN to carry out a detailed evaluation of the effectiveness of the implementation of the Conventions, with particular regard to : ∙ prevention of use and dependence ∙ a reduction in the supply of and the demand for illicit drugs, ∙ the limitation of health and social damage, ∙ a reduction in drug-related petty crime and organised crime; 8. Urges the European Union representatives to propose that a UN Conference be held in 2004 at which the findings of the evaluation requested may be debated; 9. Insists that, should the findings of that Conference support this view, procedures for the amendment of the 1961 and 1971 Conventions and for the repeal of the 1988 Convention must be considered ; 10. Requests, further, that immediate action be taken to carry out scientific medical studies of the consequences for the human body of long-term drug abuse involving (six words deleted) the cannabis plant, (24 words deleted) heroin (13 words deleted) and psychotropic and other drug substances; 11. Calls for immediate action to be taken to ensure that all drugs are classified in accordance with the scientific evidence of risk to human health; 12. Calls on the Member States to take specific measures to prevent and to combat the current exponential growth in advertisements for and the marketing of drugs on the Internet; 13. Instructs its President to forward this recommendation