(new) of the Regulation. Amendment 30 Article 4, paragraph 1, point (a) a) contributions from its members in accordance with Article 1 of its statutes and a) contributions from its members in accordance with Articles 1, 3 and 11 of its statutes. Justification The rapporteur has not yet seen any alternative mechanism imposing on the private sector its financial contribution. Yet a legal provision is proposed because it sets out the financial obligations of the private sector in a public-private partnership (PPP). It is only proper and desirable that these matters be debated in the EP and certain guidelines on PPPs be defined. Amendment 31 Article 4, paragraph 1, point (b) b) a possible levy on the air navigation charges within the meaning of the second indent of Article 15(3)(e) of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004. The Commission shall define, in accordance to the procedure referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004, the procedures for collecting and using the this levy. deleted Justification An additional levy on air navigation charges must be avoided. User charges will already contribute to the programme via Eurocontrol. A successful definition phase should deliver a clear business case triggering the necessary private investment (and public funding). Amendment 32 Article 4, paragraph 3 3. All Community financial contributions to the Joint Undertaking shall cease upon expiry of the period mentioned in Article 1 . 3. All Community financial contributions to the Joint Undertaking shall cease upon expiry of the development phase , unless otherwise decided by the European Parliament and the Council on the basis of a Commission proposal . Justification The option of an additional EC contribution should exist in a legal instrument. But an EC financial contribution should follow the proper and established budgetary procedure. Amendment 33 Article 5, paragraph 1 1. The Single Sky Committee, established by Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 549/2004, hereinafter referred to as “the Committee”, shall be informed on a regular basis about its work. To this end, the Commission shall put the SESAR project as an item on the agenda of the Committee’s meetings. 1. The Single Sky Committee, established by Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 549/2004, hereinafter referred to as “the Committee”, shall be informed on a regular basis about the work of the Joint Undertaking . To this end, the Commission shall put the SESAR project as an item on the agenda of the Committee’s meetings. Justification Simple clarification is added. Amendment 34 Article 5, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Commission's position in relation to decisions within the Administrative Board concerning technical adjustments to the ATM Master Plan shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 3 of Decision 1999/468/EC. Justification This amendment should be considered in conjunction with the new Article 6a on the Review Clause. In other words, this amendment only mandates the Commission to adopt its position on the technical modifications of the ATM Master Plan, after invoking the "Advisory Procedure" of Comitology. Amendment 35 Article 5 a (new) Article 5a Accession of