selection criteria shall be such as to make it possible to assess the applicant's ability to complete the proposed action or work programme. 2. The award criteria announced in advance in the call for proposals shall be such as to make it possible to assess the quality of the proposals submitted in the light of the objectives and priorities set. Article 116 1. Proposals shall be evaluated, on the basis of pre-announced selection and award criteria, by an evaluation committee set up for that purpose, with a view to determining which proposals may be financed. 2. The authorising officer responsible shall then, on the basis of the evaluation provided for in paragraph 1, draw up the list of beneficiaries and the amounts approved. 3. The authorising officer responsible shall inform applicants in writing of the decision on their application. If the grant requested is not awarded, the institution shall give the reasons for the rejection of the application, with reference in particular to the selection and award criteria already announced. CHAPTER 4 Payment and control Article 117 The pace of payments shall be determined by the financial risks involved, the duration and progress of the action or the costs incurred by the beneficiary. Article 118 The authorising officer responsible may require the beneficiary to lodge a guarantee in advance in order to limit the financial risks connected with the payment of pre-financing. Article 119 1. The amount of the grant shall not become final until after the institution has accepted the final reports and accounts, without prejudice to subsequent checks by the institution. 2. Should the beneficiary fail to comply with his/her legal or contractual obligations, the grant shall be suspended and reduced or terminated in the cases provided for by the implementing rules after the beneficiary has been given the opportunity to make his/her observations. CHAPTER 5 Implementation Article 120 1. Where implementation of the action requires the award of procurement contracts by the beneficiary, the award shall be subject to the principles set out in Title V of this part. 2. Each grant agreement shall provide expressly for the Commission and the Court of Auditors to exercise their powers of control, on documents and on the premises, over all contractors and subcontractors who have received Community funds. TITLE VII PRESENTATION OF THE ACCOUNTS AND ACCOUNTING CHAPTER 1 Presentation of the accounts Article 121 The Community accounts shall comprise: a) the financial statements of the institutions as set out in Article 126 and those of the bodies referred to in Article 185; b) the consolidated financial statements which present in aggregated form the financial information contained in the financial statements of the institutions and bodies referred to in point (a); c) the reports on implementation of the budget of the institutions and the budgets of the bodies referred to in Article 185; d) the consolidated reports on implementation of the budget which present in aggregated form the information contained in the reports referred to in point (c). Article 122 The accounts of the institutions and bodies referred to in Article 185