{ "context": [ [ "Bob Paisley", [ "Robert \"Bob\" Paisley OBE (23 January 1919 – 14 February 1996) was an English footballer and manager who spent almost fifty years with Liverpool as a wing half, physiotherapist, coach and manager.", " Due to his achievements as Liverpool manager, Paisley is one of the most successful English football managers of all time.", " Paisley and Carlo Ancelotti are the only managers to have won the European Cup three times.", " During his nine-year tenure as Liverpool manager, Paisley won honours at a rate of 2.2 per season, a rate surpassed only by Pep Guardiola.", " He is one of five managers to have won the English top-flight championship as both player and manager at the same club, the others being Bill Nicholson (Tottenham Hotspur), Howard Kendall (Everton), George Graham (Arsenal) and Kenny Dalglish (Liverpool), the latter as player/manager." ] ], [ "1974–75 Liverpool F.C. season", [ "Liverpool F.C. had a trophyless first season under the guidance of Bob Paisley, who took over as manager following the retirement of Bill Shankly after nearly 15 years at the helm.", " They did finish second in the First Division behind champions Derby County, in a record-tight season that saw the top ten teams separated by less than ten points.", " A defeat in the penultimate round against newcomers Middlesbrough cost Liverpool a ninth league title." ] ], [ "1950 FA Cup Final", [ "The 1950 FA Cup Final was contested by Arsenal and Liverpool at Wembley.", " Arsenal won 2–0, with both goals scored by Reg Lewis.", " Future Liverpool manager Bob Paisley was dropped for the final, even after scoring the winning goal against rivals Everton in the semi final.", " Cricketer Denis Compton also played in the Arsenal side." ] ], [ "1975–76 Liverpool F.C. season", [ "Liverpool F.C. won its ninth Football League title and second UEFA Cup, which were the first trophies won under manager Bob Paisley, in his second season as manager." ] ], [ "List of Liverpool F.C. players (1–24 appearances)", [ "Liverpool Football Club is an English association football club based in Liverpool, Merseyside.", " The club was formed in 1892 following a disagreement between the board of Everton and club president John Houlding, who owned the club's ground, Anfield.", " The disagreement between the two parties over rent resulted in Everton moving to Goodison Park from Anfield, which left Houlding with an empty stadium.", " Thus, he founded Liverpool F.C. to play in the empty stadium.", " Liverpool won the First Division title for the first time in 1901; since then, the club has won a further 17 league titles, along with seven FA Cups and eight Football League Cups.", " They have also been crowned champions of European football on five occasions by winning the European Cup/UEFA Champions League in 1977, 1978, 1981, 1984 and 2005.", " The club was one of 22 members of the Premier League when it was formed in 1992.", " They experienced the most successful period in their history under the management of