including pipeline to the European gas grid 8.35. Developing underground gas storage facilities in Italy 8.36. Storage at Wierzchowice (PL), extending existing site 8.37. Storage at Kossakowo (PL), developing underground storage 8.38. Malta (MT) – Sicily (IT) gas pipeline 8.39. Storage in Lithuania (new site) 9. Developing gas transport capacity (gas supply pipelines) 9.1. Creation and development of connections Nordic Gas Grid: Norway – Denmark – Germany – Sweden – Finland – Russia – Baltic States – Poland 9.2. The Mid-Nordic gas pipeline: Norway, Sweden, Finland 9.3. The North European gas pipeline: Russia, Baltic Sea, Germany 9.4. Gas pipeline from Russia to Germany, via Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, including developing underground gas storage facilities in Latvia (''Amber'' project) 9.5. Gas pipeline Finland – Estonia 9.6. New gas pipelines from Algeria to Spain and France and related capacity increase of the internal networks in these countries 9.7. Increasing transport capacity of the Algeria – Morocco – Spain (up to Córdoba) pipeline 9.8. Córdoba (ES) – Ciudad Real (ES) pipeline 9.9. Ciudad Real (ES) – Madrid (ES) pipeline 9.10. Ciudad Real (ES) – Mediterranean coast (ES) pipeline 9.11. Branches in Castilla – La Mancha (ES) 9.12. Extension towards North-West Spain 9.13. Algeria – Spain submarine pipeline and pipelines for the connection to France 9.14. Increasing transport capacity from Russian resources to the European Union, via Ukraine, Slovakia and the Czech Republic 9.15. Increasing transport capacity from Russian resources to the European Union, via Belarus and Poland 9.16. Yamal – Europe II natural gas pipeline 9.17. Yagal Sud gas pipeline (between the STEGAL pipeline leading to the DE, FR, CH triangle) 9.18. SUDAL East gas pipeline (between MIDAL pipeline near Heppenheim to Burghausen connection with the PENTA pipeline in Austria) 9.19. Increasing transport capacity of the STEGAL gas pipeline for transport of additional gas from the Czech-German border and from the Polish-German border through Germany to other Member States 9.20. Gas pipeline from Libyan resources to Italy 9.21. Gas pipeline from resources in the Caspian Sea Countries to the European Union 9.22. Greece – Turkey gas pipeline 9.23. Increasing transport capacity from Russian resources to Greece and other Balkan countries, via Ukraine, Moldavia, Romania and Bulgaria 9.24. St. Zagora (BG) – Ihtiman (BG) gas pipeline 9.25. Trans-Adriatic pipeline – Natural gas pipeline to transport natural gas imported from the Caspian Sea region, Russia, or the Middle East, connecting Italy and the South-East European energy markets 9.26. Connecting pipelines between the German, Czech, Austrian and Italian gas networks 9.27. Gas pipeline from Russian resources to Italy, via Ukraine, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia 9.28. Increasing transport capacity of the TENP gas pipeline running from the Netherlands through Germany to Italy 9.29. Taisnieres (FR) – Oltingue (CH) gas pipeline 9.30. Gas pipeline from Denmark to Poland, possibly via Sweden 9.31. Nybro (DK) – Dragør (DK) gas pipeline, including connecting pipeline to the storage at Stenlille (DK) 9.32. Gas network from the Barents Sea resources to the European Union, via Sweden and Finland 9.33. Gas pipeline from the Corrib field (IE), offshore 9.34. Gas pipeline from Algerian resources to