mentioned in paragraph 1 of this Article and that they do not overlap. Justification The legislative act should be more specific and clear in order to avoid the risk of overlapping and double financing of the actions of the present proposal with the actions of : the specific programme Prevention of and Fight against Crime , which focuses on law enforcement and crime prevention, in the sense of cooperation between police and other non-judicial law enforcement agencies; the other specific programmes under the general programmes on Fundamental Rights and Justice ; Eurojust and Solidarity and management of migration flows, in particular in the area related to the asylum and third country national integration legal system . Amendment 7 Article 13, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 a (new) The Commission shall ensure that the actions covered by this Decision are subject to prior evaluation, monitoring and ex-post evaluation. It shall ensure that the programme is accessible and is implemented in a transparent manner. Justification The programme needs to be monitored and evaluated at the appropriate times, so as to ensure democratic scrutiny . Amendment 8 Article 13, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 b (new) The Commission shall give the European Parliament and the Council regular and timely notice of the implementation of the programme, in particular the use of the available resources. Justification The two arms of the budgetary authority should receive regular and timely information in order to ensure that the programme is monitored and assessed in an effective manner Amendment 9 Article 15, paragraph 3 3. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council: 3. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council: (a) an interim evaluation report on the results obtained and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the implementation of this programme no later than 31 March 2011; (a) a detailed interim evaluation report on the results obtained and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the implementation of this programme three years after the adoption of this Decision; (b) a Communication on the continuation of this programme no later than 30 August 2012; (b) a Communication on the continuation of this programme, having regard to its objectives, three years after the adoption of this Decision. Moreover, the Commission shall present annually a short report monitoring the situation of the implementation of the programme; (c) an ex-post evaluation report no later than 31 December 2014. (c) an ex-post evaluation report no later than 31 December 2014 covering the implementation and results of the programme, on completion of its implementation. Justification The fund needs to be monitored and evaluated at the appropriate times, so as to ensure democratic scrutiny. PROCEDURE Title Proposal for a Council decision establishing for the period 2007 - 2013 the specific programme "Fundamental rights and citizenship" as part of the General programme "Fundamental Rights and Justice" References COM(2005)0122 – C6‑0236/2005 – 2005/0038(CNS) Committee responsible LIBE Committee(s) asked for opinion(s) Date announced in plenary BUDG 6.9.2005 Enhanced cooperation Date announced in plenary Draftswoman Date appointed Neena Gill 9.6.2005 Previous draftswoman Discussed in committee 25.1.2006