documents are recorded. 3. Parliament shall establish a register of Parliament documents. Legislative documents and other documents as indicated in an Annex to these Rules See Annex XV. shall, in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, be made directly accessible through the register. References for other Parliament documents shall as far as possible be included in the register. Categories of documents which are directly accessible shall be set out in a list adopted by Parliament and annexed to these Rules See Annex XV. . This list shall not restrict the right of access to documents not falling under the categories listed. Parliament documents which are not directly accessible through the register shall be made available on written application. The Bureau may adopt rules, in conformity with Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, laying down arrangements for access which shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. The Bureau shall determine the authorities in charge of handling initial applications (Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001) and shall adopt decisions on confirmatory applications (Article 8 of the Regulation) and applications for sensitive documents (Article 9 of the Regulation). 5. The Conference of Presidents shall designate Parliament's representatives on the interinstitutional committee established pursuant to Article 15(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. 6. One of the Vice-Presidents shall be responsible for supervising the handling of applications for access to documents. 7. Parliament's committee responsible shall, on the basis of information provided by the Bureau and other sources, prepare the annual report referred to in Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and submit it to the plenary. The committee responsible shall also examine and evaluate the reports adopted by the other institutions and agencies pursuant to Article 17 of the Regulation. TITLE IV RELATIONS WITH OTHER BODIES CHAPTER 1 APPOINTMENTS Rule 98 Election of the President of the Commission 1. When the Council has agreed on a nomination for President of the Commission, the President shall request the nominee to make a statement and present his political guidelines to Parliament. The statement shall be followed by a debate. The Council shall be invited to take part in the debate. 2. Parliament shall approve or reject the nomination by a majority of the votes cast. The vote shall be taken by secret ballot. 3. If the nominee is elected, the President shall inform the Council accordingly, requesting it and the President-elect of the Commission to propose by common accord the nominees for the various posts of Commissioners. 4. If Parliament does not approve the nomination, the President shall request the Council to nominate a new candidate. Rule 99 Election of the Commission 1. The President shall, after consulting the President-elect of the Commission, request the nominees proposed by the President-elect of the Commission and the Council for the various posts of Commissioners to appear before the appropriate committees according to their prospective fields of responsibility. These hearings shall be held in public. 2. The committee shall invite the nominee to make a statement and answer questions. 3. The President-elect shall present the college