asks the Commission to clarify what is meant by using the White Paper to start a process of defining "the criteria for the creation of new regulatory agencies and the framework within which they should operate" and how these criteria are to be applied to the new agencies which are currently being set up; 20. underlines the importance of an "effective system of supervision and control" of the agencies as mentioned in the White Paper; democratic accountability of the agencies could for example be enhanced by their directors being confirmed by, and reporting to, the European Parliament. The EU’s contribution to global governance 21. asks the Commission to encourage EU companies to follow EU environmental legislation in their investments outside the EU by adopting a mandatory code of conduct setting minimum standards; 22. stresses that the Community's right to legislate on the protection of social and public services, social and environmental standards and the right to take precautionary measures to protect public health, consumers and the environment must be insulated against challenges from the WTO; 16 October 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON CULTURE, YOUTH, EDUCATION, THE MEDIA AND SPORT for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Commission White Paper on European governance ( COM(2001) 428 – C5‑0454/2001 – 2001/2181(COS)) Draftsman: Barbara O'Toole PROCEDURE The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport appointed Barbara O'Toole draftsman at its meeting of 17 September 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 9-10 and 15-16 October 2001. At the latter it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Giuseppe Gargani, chairman; Vasco Graça Moura, vice-chairman; Barbara O'Toole, draftsman; Ole Andreasen, Pedro Aparicio Sánchez, Christine de Veyrac, Raina A. Mercedes Echerer (for Eurig Wyn), Geneviève Fraisse, Ruth Hieronymi, Karin Junker (for Lissy Gröner), Elizabeth Lynne (for Marco Formentini), Lucio Manisco, Mario Mauro, Pietro-Paolo Mennea, Doris Pack, Marieke Sanders-ten Holte, Luckas Vander Taelen, Stavros Xarchakos (for Mónica Ridruejo), Theresa Zabell and Sabine Zissener. SHORT JUSTIFICATION 1. Background : In early 2000, the Commission listed reform of European governance as one of its four strategic objectives. In doing so, the Commission was responding to diminishing confidence among Europeans in the ability of politicians and political institutions to find solutions to the problems they face in their everyday lives - the impact of globalisation, unemployment, environmental problems, crime, and so on. This lack of confidence is manifested in distrust of, and disengagement from, formal politics at all levels in Europe. But it is particularly apparent in citizens' attitudes towards 'Brussels': the institutions of the European Union are poorly understood, and commonly seen as both too remote and too intrusive. THE WHITE PAPER 2. 'European Governance: A White Paper' was published on 25 July 2001 and presented formally to the Parliament by President Prodi during the September part-session. It is the Commission's attempt to address 'the way in which the Union uses the powers given by its citizens': its overall goal is to 'help people to see how Member States, by acting together within the Union, are able to