categories of trade and investment-related natural persons , in particular intra-corporate transferees, providers of contractual services and trainees with higher- education qualifications who are covered by the Community's obligations under the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) ; Amendment 21 Proposal for a directive Article 3 − paragraph 2 − point g a (new) (ga) who have been admitted in the territory of a Member State as seasonal workers. Amendment 22 Proposal for a directive Article 3 − paragraph 3 3. This Directive should be without prejudice to any future agreement between the Community or between the Community and its Member States on the one hand and one or more third countries on the other, that would list the professions which should not fall under this directive in order to assure ethical recruitment, in sectors suffering from a lack of personnel, by protecting human resources in the developing countries, signatories to these agreements. 3. This Directive shall be without prejudice to any future agreement between the Community or between the Community and its Member States on the one hand and one or more third countries on the other, that lists the professions which will not fall under this Directive in order to ensure ethical recruitment, in sectors suffering from a lack of personnel , in sectors vital to achieving the UN Millennium Development Goals, in particular the health and education sectors, and in sectors vital to the ability of developing countries to deliver basic social services , by protecting human resources in the developing countries, signatories to these agreements. Amendment 23 Proposal for a directive Article 4 − paragraph 2 2. This Directive shall not affect the right of Member States to adopt or retain more favourable provisions concerning conditions of entry and residence for persons to whom it applies , except for entry into the first Member State. 2. This Directive shall not affect the right of Member States to adopt or retain more favourable provisions concerning persons to whom this Directive applies than the following provisions: . (a) Article 5(2) in the event of residence in the second Member State ; (b) Articles 12, 13(1) and (2), 14, 16, 17(4) and 20 . Amendment 25 Proposal for a directive Article 5 − paragraph 1 − point a (a) present a valid work contract or a binding job offer of at least one year in the Member State concerned; (a) present a work contract for highly qualified employment which is valid under national law or a binding job offer of at least one year in the Member State concerned; Amendment 26 Proposal for a directive Article 5 − paragraph 1 − point c (c) for unregulated professions, present the documents attesting the relevant higher professional qualifications in the occupation or sector specified in the work contract or in the binding offer of work; deleted Amendment 27 Proposal for a directive Article 5 − paragraph 1 − point e (e) present evidence of having a sickness insurance for the applicant and his/her family members for all the risks normally covered for