News Report : 11-09-2003 Brussels, 11 September 2003 Trichet's nomination as ECB President approved The European Parliament's Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee held a hearing on Thursday with Jean-Claude TRICHET, who has been nominated as the next President of the European Central Bank (ECB). Following the hearing, MEPs gave him their overwhelming backing: 20 votes in favour, 2 against and 4 abstentions. This vote has still to be ratified by Parliament's plenary on 23 September. The two Members who voted against were William ABITBOL (EDD, F) and Giorgos KATIFORIS (PES, GR) and the four abstentions were David MARTIN (PES, UK), Charles TANNOCK (EPP-ED, UK), Peter SKINNER (PES, UK) and Theresa VILLIERS (EPP-ED, UK). During the hearing Mr Trichet was questioned at length on the need to revise the Stability and Growth Pact, the stance to be taken towards countries that exceed the 3% public deficit figure, the social impact of monetary policy, the differences between the situations of the USA and the EU and the ECB's communication policy, which some MEPs accused of lacking transparency. The need for rigour and trust In his opening speech Mr Trichet pointed to three successes that could be chalked up to the credit of the ECB after five years of existence: the unification of the monetary market in 1999, the smooth introduction of euro notes and coins and "a third success which is considerable, although underestimated" , namely the trust and credibility built up by the Bank. "Trust is absolutely essential. The trust of our fellow citizens is what enables this currency to be a sound instrument" . He described the outgoing President, Wim Duisenberg, as a "great team leader" and, anticipating concerns about dirigisme , he highlighted the "collegiate wisdom" of the ECB. Also anticipating criticism about transparency, he emphasised that the ECB had from the beginning responded to Parliament's expectations as regards transparency and accountability and had done so in a way unprecedented for a central bank. He also defended the Bank's monetary policy so far, in which he had himself been involved as a member of the Governing Council. This policy had today resulted in an optimum situation as regards interest rates, which reduces labour costs and boosts productivity. He considered price stability to still be the ECB's key objective and a pre-condition, even if not the only one, for growth and job creation, as it consolidates the purchasing power of the public and generates confidence among savers. However, this monetary policy must, he stressed, go hand in hand with structural reforms. On the question of trust, Christa RANDZIO-PLATH (PES, D), the Chair of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, reminded Mr Trichet that the hearing was also intended to establish trust in the person who was to head the ECB. Should the Stability Pact be reviewed? Othmar KARAS (EPP-ED, A) and Robert GOEBBELS (PES, L) both focused on the Stability Pact. " You are from a country - and it is not the only one - which is not sticking to the Stability and Growth Pact. How do you feel about this?