beyond Stages III A/B proposed by the Commission and the USA has also taken a more ambitious approach to the problems involved. As the structure of the market in mobile machinery is global, it is important to monitor developments in the USA. In addition, from 2009, sulphur-free fuel will be available in the EU, which is a necessary condition for exhaust cleaning techniques such as particulate filters or DeNox catalytic converters. Particulate filters are already the norm for forklift trucks, which also partly operate indoors. The Euro III (A) Stage proposed by the Commission should not be further amended because of the short lead time and in order to afford the industries sufficient security for development. Nevertheless, another stage is needed. In order to make it clearer that another stage, with genuine reductions, must be added, Stage II A (NOx reduction) is renamed Stage III and Stage III B (particulate reduction) is renamed Stage IV, particularly as in the medium term there is clearly further potential for reducing NOx values. The necessary technology is already available, is being used in HGVs and will be mandatory from 2008. It is also applicable to the non-road mobile machinery sector. The Swiss VERT project has shown that equipping construction machinery with particulate filters can reduce the toxic, ultra fine diesel particulate dust (from both old and new diesel engines) by a factor 100 to 1 000. This represents a 95% reduction in carcinogenic diesel dust. The studies have shown a high rate of mortality and lung disease among children linked to diesel particulate emissions from construction machinery (at over 40%, the biggest non-road source of diesel particulates), in response to which the Swiss environment authority, BUWAL, issued guidelines on air pollution control on building sites in order to prevent respiratory diseases and other health problems caused by fine dust. Particulate filter systems have been introduced in Switzerland as best available technology since March 2000 for engines used under ground. It has been statutory since January 2002 to upgrade all relevant diesel-powered machinery. The project has also shown that these measures also entail economic benefits as well as health benefits. A further example of successful combating of particulate emissions from diesel engines and vehicles is the California Resources Board's diesel risk reduction programme (See http://www.arb.ca.gov/diesel/documents/rrpapp.htm). The target is a reduction in diesel particulate emissions and associated health risks by 75% by 2010 and by 85% by 2020. This target is to be met by means of stricter limit values for new diesel engines and vehicles and the use of particulate filters for existing diesel engines and vehicles, together with sulphur-free fuel using modern exhaust control systems. The plan envisages a minimum 90% reduction of total particulate emissions of new road vehicles and applying the same standards to the non-road mobile machinery sector. Test procedures To attain air quality targets requires not only strict limit values but also realistic test procedures. This includes the avoidance of defeat devices and irrational emission control strategies in order to record as closely as possible the emission behaviour of the machinery