representative to any internal preparatory meeting of the delegation. 6. The delegation shall be led by the President or by one of the three permanent members. 7. The delegation shall decide by a majority of its members. Its deliberations shall not be public. The Conference of Presidents shall lay down further procedural guidelines for the work of the delegation to the Conciliation Committee. 8. The results of the conciliation shall be reported by the delegation to Parliament. Plenary stage Rule 65 Joint text 1. Where agreement on a joint text is reached within the Conciliation Committee, the matter shall be placed on the agenda of a sitting of Parliament to be held within six or, if extended, eight weeks of the date of approval of the joint text by the Conciliation Committee. 2. The chairman or another designated member of Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee shall make a statement on the joint text, which shall be accompanied by a report. 3. No amendments may be tabled to the joint text. 4. The joint text as a whole shall be the subject of a single vote. The joint text shall be approved if it secures a majority of the votes cast. 5. Where no agreement is reached on a joint text within the Conciliation Committee, the chairman or another designated member of Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee shall make a statement. This statement shall be followed by a debate. CHAPTER 6 CONCLUSION OF THE LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURE Rule 66 First reading agreement 1. Where, pursuant to Article 251(2) of the EC Treaty, the Council has informed Parliament that it has approved its amendments, but not otherwise amended the Commission proposal, or neither institution has amended the Commission proposal, the President shall announce in Parliament that the proposal has been finally adopted. 2. Before making this announcement, the President shall verify that any technical adaptations made by the Council to the proposal do not affect the substance. In case of doubt, he shall consult the committee responsible. If any changes made are considered to be substantive, the President shall inform the Council that Parliament will proceed to a second reading as soon as the conditions laid down in Rule 57 are fulfilled. 3. After making the announcement referred to in paragraph 1, the President shall, with the President of the Council, sign the proposed act and arrange for its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, in accordance with Rule 68. Rule 67 Second reading agreement Where no motion to reject the common position, and no amendments to the common position, are adopted under Rules 61 and 62 within the time limits set for tabling and voting on amendments or proposals to reject, the President shall announce in Parliament that the proposed act has been finally adopted. He shall, with the President of the Council, sign the proposed act and arrange for its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, in accordance with Rule 68. Rule 68 Signature of adopted acts 1. The text of acts adopted jointly by