Wilde Sapte study and the accompanying correlation table as to whether there is a lack of adequate transposition. As discussed below, the Commission seemed satisfied with the results of the study and with transposition in general. 1. Conditions on obtaining authorisation: sound and prudent management; notifiable persons; disclosure of information; According to the study, and in compliance with articles 7 and 14 of the 3LD " companies must be managed in accordance with the principles of sound and prudent management ". The study argues that the UK implementing provisions " place new requirements on directors which require the maintenance of a system of control ." It concludes by stating the obvious, i.e., that "the DTI has powers to take regulatory actions if insurance companies are not soundly and prudently managed ". On notifiable persons the study does not add much other than describing the articles from the UK implementing provisions. On disclosure of information, the study claims that the UK implementing provisions respect the higher information requirements contained in the 3LD. The provisions are sparsely implemented throughout different Acts. 2. Technical provisions, detailed analysis The study finds no divergences with the 3LD of the UK implementing provisions, other than Article 22(1). See below, 'divergences'. 3. Establishment of branches The study goes into detail on authorization and notification procedures and on how the DTI intended to fulfil the requirements in this regard. It is not clear from the text whether there is a lack of adequate transposition and the Commission seemed satisfied with the explanations given. 4. Rules protecting the general good The study describes how the UK advisory authorities did not prepare a list of conditions described as constituting the general good. Instead, they prepared a non-exhaustive list outlining the principal enactments which regulate insurance business in the UK and which may apply to foreign insurers writing business in the UK. This includes, amongst other things, rules on advertising, disclosure of links by intermediaries, misleading information, cessation of cover (no specific rules), issues of language, choice of law (free in the UK) and cancellation rights (there are none in UK law). 5. Specific divergences: ยง Article 12 "The UK implementing provisions do not specifically require the Secretary of State to inform the competent authority of the Member State of the commitment which the risk is situated in the relevant circumstances." The DTI felt this was unnecessary as the Secretary of State already had to the power to exchange information with other competent authorities under existing UK legislation. ยง Article 13 "The UK implementing provision does not state that the UK supervisory authority must inform the competent authority of the other Member States " in the event of the withdrawal of authorisation of another Member State, as is required by the Directive. ยง Article 14(2) "The UK supervisory authority felt that, since it has no power to object to a disposal, it was irrelevant whether notification took place before the disposal or seven days after." Therefore, this article was not transposed. ยง Article 21(1) This article provides that assets covering technical provisions shall