in accordance with the general principles of good administration , and should therefore be obliged to inform the organisers of an initiative of the reasons for any refusal to register an initiative and of the legal remedies available to them in that event . It should also be made clear by the Commission that registration and the collection of the required number of statements of support will not necessarily result in the Commission adopting a proposal for a legal act and that the registration of an initiative does not constitute a formal decision on competence issues. Justification This concerns the abolition of the admissibility check: Commission only verifies if a certain initiative is a citizens' initiative pursuant to the Regulation. Then, the initiative should be registered and the organisers cannot be prevented from collecting signatures. But in order to be able to prevent using the initiative for provoking decisions by the Commission on competence issues, it should be explained to organisers that the registration means simply that the initiative in the Commission's view is a European citizens' initiative and not a formal decision on competence issues. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 9 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (9) The organiser of a proposed citizens' initiative should be responsible for the collection of the necessary statements of support from citizens. (9) Once a proposal is registered as a citizens' initiative , statements of support from citizens may be submitted by the organisers . Justification The amendment to Recital 9 reinforces the position that the registration is only aimed at deciding whether a European citizens' initiative is on the table or not. If it is so, organisers do not have to comply with any other requirements (admissibility, etc.) but they are free to exercise their right under the Treaty, namely to collect signatures in favour of an initiative. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10) It is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected in paper form as well as online . Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia, that the person can be identified and that the data are securely stored. For this purpose, the Commission should be required to set out detailed technical specifications for online collection systems. (10) In order to put modern technology to good use as a tool of participatory democracy, it is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected online as well as in paper form. Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia, that the person is eligible to sign and signs only once, and that the data are securely stored. The detailed technical specifications should be worked out at an expert level and be regularly adapted to technical developments. he power to adopt detailed technical specifications for online collection systems should therefore be delegated to the Commission . Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 a (new) Text proposed by the