Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (15 June 2006) As documented in the 2006 joint report on social protection and social inclusion and in the report on social inclusion in Europe 2006, there is little improvement in reducing poverty and social exclusion across the Union. There is, therefore, a clear need to strengthen the political commitment to the effective implementation of the Union's social inclusion objectives in this field. The 2005 implementation reports confirm that, while the overall economic, employment and social goals set at the European Council of Lisbon in 2000 remain valid, there has been an implementation gap. In many Member States, there is a gap between the social inclusion objectives which have been set and the corresponding policy efforts to achieve them. As a consequence, if the social inclusion goal set in Lisbon to make a decisive impact on the eradication of poverty by 2010 is to be achieved, the Commission believes that there is a need for a more focussed approach with more emphasis on results. In many Member States, there has been only little progress in mainstreaming social inclusion concerns into the main policy-making processes, including in the economic and budgetary fields. According to the Commission, the national action plans (NAPs) for inclusion need to be better integrated into the general policy approach in Member States and the renewed Lisbon Strategy. To achieve this, future NAPs should be focussed on a more limited number of key objectives based on a thorough analysis of the poverty/social exclusion situation, define a corresponding course of actions, and set quantified outcome targets. The 2005 national reform programmes highlight the need to reach out to the most vulnerable groups in society in order to promote their inclusion into the labour market. However, the measures envisaged to that effect often lack both detail and strategic vision. The Commission considers that the recent ‘streamlining’ of the open method of coordination in the field of social protection and social inclusion (that is, the bringing together of the three strands of the open method of coordination (OMC) under common objectives and working methods) will allow the Member States to develop a more strategic approach to the challenges in the field of social protection. Ireland has reported substantial progress across all objectives since 2003. Ireland also has relatively strong institutional arrangements in place to oversee the development and monitoring of social inclusion policy. The development in 2004 of a communication strategy by the Office for Social Inclusion is likely to help increase public awareness of the NAP inclusion process. The Commission also notes some progress in embedding social inclusion at regional and local levels, in particular through the development of local social inclusion strategies by city and county development boards. In the first annual progress report, the Commission pointed out that the consultation process in Ireland was substantial and highlighted the need to better integrate vulnerable groups, to strengthen measures in support of employment of people with disabilities, and to improve the position of low skilled workers.