the Secretary of State two types of power: subsection (1) refers to the power to require a company to furnish the Secretary of State with information about specified matters; subsections (2)(a), (2)(b) and (4)(a) refer to the power to require a company to produce books or papers as may be specified. With respect to the power to require information about specified matters, paragraph 13(1) provides that the Secretary of State may exercise this power in respect of an EC company either if the supervisory authority of the home Member State has requested him to do so or if the Secretary of State considers that the information to be acquired is necessary to enable him to perform his supervisory functions. In the latter circumstance, the Secretary of State enjoys some discretion in using this power, which is not subjected to a request from the competent authority of the home Member State . With respect to the power to require a company to produce books or papers, in line with the Directive, paragraph 13(2) provides that the Secretary of State shall not exercise this power in respect of an EC company unless the supervisory authority in the company’s home State has requested him – in writing – to obtain information from that company. Thus, the UK implementing measure is more restrictive than the Directive in that it requires the home Member State not only to notify the host Member State authority but also to submit this notification in writing. Finally, in accordance with the Directive, paragraph 14(2) provides that an officer or agent of the Secretary of State may accompany the person authorised by the competent authorities of the home Member State while he is exercising the power to obtain information. Link to the ELAS case According to the evidence analyzed so far, no on-the-spot visits were performed by UK supervisors in other Member State regarding ELAS, nor have any previous notifications to the host Member State been found on this matter. Article 12 - Difficulties to comply with financial guarantees (Articles 24 of 1LD and 37 of CD) Summary of objectives This article lists the actions to be taken by the competent authority of the home Member State to protect policyholders’ rights when assurance companies are facing difficulties in complying with their financial guarantees. It specifies the circumstances under which such actions may be taken, the formalities that are to be observed and the circumstances under which the home Member State may prohibit the company's free disposal of assets. Text of the article Article 12 1. Article 24 of Directive 79/267/EEC shall be replaced by the following: 'Article 24 1. If an undertaking does not comply with Article 17, the competent authority of its home Member State may prohibit the free disposal of its assets after having communicated its intention to the competent authorities of the Member States of commitment. 2. For the purposes of restoring the financial situation of an undertaking the solvency margin of which has fallen below the minimum required under Article 19, the competent authority of the home Member