should be submitted to the Commission by an organising committee consisting of at least nine European citizens coming from at least nine Member States. Such procedure will ensure that every initiative will have a European character from the very beginning. Excluding legal persons from the organising committee will protect the citizens' initiative from a possible abuse of existing business organisations, political parties and other organisations which are much stronger than a group of citizens and have more possibilities to act at the European level. The citizens´ initiative should not develop into election campaigns, nor should it be used as a tool for such campaigns. Politicians have other tools to influence legislative decisions. According to the rapporteur, it would be important for an organiser to know early enough which kind of a legal act or measure would be appropriate in order to achieve the objectives of the citizens' initiative in case it would be successful. Therefore, the Commission should provide the organiser with a first, realistic indication on appropriate measures already in the context of the admissibility check. That would avoid disappointments in case the Commission would not propose a binding legal act after all. In addition, there is no need to wait with the admissibility check until the organising committee has collected a certain number of signatures and submitted to the Commission a request for decision on the admissibility. In order to prevent any unnecessary administrative burden, the Commission should check the admissibility of the proposed initiative right after the registration and without any delay. The rapporteur wants to simplify the statement of support form. First of all, the Regulation should set out only those requirements which are necessary. As regards personal data, these necessary requirements should only be the name, address, nationality, date of birth and the signature. Secondly, the organising committee should be able to prepare is own statement of support form. This way, in addition to the necessary requirements set out in the Regulation, the organising committee could add in the form some additional questions or information, or for example the logo of the initiative. For the sake of transparency, the funding sources of each citizens´ initiative should be indicated in the statement of support form. It should be clear to all signatories who is financing the respective initiative. The rapporteur also wants to stress the importance of communication activities and information campaigns, in order to raise awareness on the European Citizens' Initiative. In this context, existing programmes which promote mobility (such as the Lifelong Learning and Youth in Action programmes) and active citizenship (the Europe for Citizens programme) can play an important role. As regards collecting of signatures, the rapporteur strongly recommends the development and use of appropriate online tools that are easily accessible across the European Union. The rapporteur would also like to give the Commission representations and the Parliament information offices in the Member States, as well as the Commission information networks, such as Europe Direct and Citizen Signpost Service, a permanent role in providing citizens with all necessary information regarding the citizens´ initiative. According to