Adequacy of resources available to regulators On the subject of structures and resources available to the UK insurance regulators, Lord Penrose found that " the DTI insurance division was ill-equipped to participate in the regulatory process. It had inadequate staff, and those involved at line supervisor level in particular were not qualified to make any significant contribution to the process. Insurance division regulators were fundamentally dependent on GAD for advice on the mathematical reserves, implicit items, technical matters generally, and PRE, and were not individually equipped with specific relevant skills or experience to assess independently the Society's position in these respects". He added that " the staffing levels available to the prudential regulators varied, but the number of staff with direct responsibility for the Society and their grades within the civil service remained broadly constant ... Increased resources might have improved the chances of identifying problems, but ... Government required a 'light touch' approach to regulation, and allocated resources accordingly. "(WE16, par. 39, 158 and 159) Mr. NASSIM (WE7) claimed that "the regulators were not always sufficiently resourced, and did not all possess the necessary skills, to make an effective contribution to the regulatory process and responsibly exercise discretionary powers as intended by Parliament from 1973 onwards. As a consequence they did not properly undertake their functions." Referring to evidence in the Baird report, Mr. LAKE (H1) also claimed that the insurance regulators were seriously under-resourced throughout the 1990s and accused the UK Government of contravening Articles 15(3) and 23(3) of the 1LD as amended by the 3LD, which required that " the powers and means be sufficient to allow the competent authorities to be able to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the policy-holders, which was not done in this case ." Likewise, " resources provided had to enable that the competent authorities of the home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to have sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms. Again, this provision was not correctly followed. " 2. The GAR Problem The handling of the problem related to Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GAR) appears at the core of evidence and complaints put forward to this Committee of Inquiry by petitioners and policyholders, in particular regarding the alleged failure by regulators to recognize the GAR risk potential for EL's solvency and their subsequent failure to adequately inform and/or warn prospective policyholders about this risk exposure. 2a) GAR Timeline 1957 Equitable Life began selling with-profits pension annuities with 'guaranteed rates' (GARs) fixed to specific assumptions as to interest rates and life expectancy. GAR policies were sold until 1988 ; with-profits policies offering 'guaranteed interest rates' (GIRs) were sold until 1996 1970-1982 UK high-inflation years (retail inflation rate 10-22% p.a.) 1990 UK inflation drops significantly, with long-term gilt yields falling accordingly. Insurers with large books of GAR policies saw their liabilities increase dramatically: EL, holding minimum reserves and giving maximum payouts, was to be particularly badly hit see also the issue of "Managed Pensions/Income Drawdown" as detailed in WE72. 1993 Market current annuity rates fell