Question for written answer E-011054/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Olle Schmidt (ALDE) (7 January 2011) Subject: Accounting for leasing The Commission recently stated that the EU should now focus even more on smarter regulation. A communication of 8 October stresses the importance of simplifying existing regulation, reducing the administrative burden on companies and of new proposals being proportional. A current proposal on new rules for the accounting of leasing and rental is an example where this ambition must now be translated into practice. The proposal has been submitted by the private organisations, the International Accounting Standards Board and the US Financial Accounting Standards Board, and is being considered by the accounting regulatory committee in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 and Council Decision 1999/468/EC. It has been pointed out from several quarters that the current proposal would restrict the scope for using leasing and rental as financial tools, which, in the long term, may particularly affect small and medium-sized businesses. The consultants, PricewaterhouseCoopers, recently presented a report indicating that many of the companies which will be affected by the new rules fear that complicated, resource-consuming administrative measures will be imposed on them for no clear purpose. The financial crisis has revealed regulatory grey areas and gaps that must be filled. Confidence in new or amended regulation, however, is totally dependent on its being carefully considered, proportional and clearly justified. 1. Does the Commission consider that the current proposal meets the criteria for smart regulation in terms of administrative burden, proportionality and consideration for the numerous sectors affected by the rules? 2. What does the Commission intend to do to guarantee, in the long term, that this type of standardisation process, controlled by private organisations and committees of experts, will not undermine confidence in new regulation and compound the image of the EU as a source of unnecessary bureaucracy?