with HIV is almost three times higher than the official number, D. whereas, despite the increased number of HIV infections, the steady decrease in the number of AIDS cases diagnosed in recent years has continued in 2006, with 40% fewer cases diagnosed in 2006 in comparison to 1999 in the EU, according to the EuroHIV end-year report 2006, E. whereas a large proportion of HIV infections remain undiagnosed; whereas many people do not know whether they are infected or not, and are likely to discover it only once afflicted by HIV/AIDS-related illnesses, F. whereas the infectivity of HIV increases significantly in the presence of other sexually transmitted diseases (such as gonorrhea, chlamydia, herpes and syphilis), G. whereas the epidemic among intravenous drug users is one of the reasons for the rapid spread of HIV infection in many Eastern European countries, H. whereas HIV/AIDS is a communicable disease, and there is a risk of contagion even from infected persons whose infection has not been detected, I. whereas the report of UNAIDS and WHO Europe, entitled 'Progress on implementing the Dublin Declaration on Partnership to Fight HIV/AIDS in Europe and Central Asia', found that few of the 53 countries in the European region had adopted an approach to tackling stigma, discrimination and human rights that complied with their Dublin declaration commitments, J. whereas full protection of human rights is essential in every aspect of the response to HIV, K. whereas there is a critical need for cross-border cooperation to address the epidemic, L. whereas effective public health measures to facilitate the early diagnosis of HIV need to be introduced, 1. Calls on the Council and the Commission to formulate a strategy on HIV to: – promote early diagnosis and reduction of barriers to testing; – ensure early care and communication of the benefits of earlier care; 2. Calls on the Commission to ensure accurate monitoring and surveillance by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, including more precise estimates (size, characteristics, etc.) of the undiagnosed population, respecting confidentiality and protecting personal data; 3. Calls on the Commission to commit substantial political, financial and human resources to support the implementation of such a strategy; 4. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to ensure access to testing, which must remain free and anonymous; 5. Calls on the Commission to establish an HIV/AIDS risk reduction strategy focusing on vulnerable groups and groups known to be at high risk; 6. Calls on the Council to instruct the Commission to prepare Council recommendations on the implementation of evidence-based testing and treatment guidelines in each Member State; 7. Calls on the Council to instruct the Commission to ensure that future monitoring of progress in the fight against HIV/AIDS in Europe and neighbouring countries incorporates indicators that directly address and assess human rights issues in relation to HIV/AIDS; 8. Calls on the Member States to enact provisions which effectively outlaw discrimination against people living with HIV/AIDS, including restrictions that impact on their freedom of movement within their jurisdictions; 9. Calls on the Member States to step up information