Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (22 June 2011) 1. It is correct that the current use of omnibus accounts is mainly regulated at national level. However, Directive 2006/73/EC OJ L 241/26, 2.9.2006. contains some rules as to the safeguarding of clients assets, including the use of omnibus accounts. These rules require investment firms to keep accounts in such a way that they can at any time and without delay distinguish assets held by different clients. Investment firms are also required to verify on a regular basis their internal accounts and records as well as those of any third parties holding the assets in question. The correct practical application of this requirement is monitored by the competent authorities as part of the ordinary supervisory process. Directive 2006/73/EC is an implementing measure to Directive 2004/39/EC OJ L 145/1, 30.4.2004. (the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, MiFID) which is currently under review. The issue of omnibus accounts and separation of assets and the practical application and experience with the rules will be considered as Directive 2006/73/EC will be reviewed following the overhaul of MiFID. 2. Competent authorities have a range of supervisory tools under MiFID in order to be able to perform their duties effectively. In relation to the combat of market abuse, the obligation on investment firms to report executed transactions in any financial instrument admitted to trading on a regulated market is particularly relevant. This transaction reporting system is also being reviewed as to its efficiency as part of the MiFID review. With respect to money laundering, the third anti-money laundering Directive (2005/60/EC) OJ L 309/15, 25.11.2005. requires competent authorities to effectively monitor compliance with the directive and take the necessary measures to this end. In particular, all financial institutions (including investment firms) in the EU must apply customer due diligence measures. Investment firms must identify and verify the identity of their customers and potential beneficiaries, obtain information on the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship in question and monitor it on an ongoing basis. This includes the scrutiny of transactions undertaken in order to ensure that these are consistent with the investment firm's knowledge of the customer, his business and his risk profile. Should there be reasonable grounds to suspect any occurrence of money laundering, the investment firm is obliged to promptly inform the national financial intelligence unit.