advertising also suggests that women seek appropriate independent advice, e.g. consult their physician; Research and Development The Commission proposes that an efficient policy on innovation should be based on a number of elements. Before breast implants are placed on the market, manufacturers must collect clinical data on the characteristics and performance of the product. Once breast implants have been placed on the market, or have been implanted, manufacturers must keep up to date a systematic procedure to review experience gained from devices in the post-production phase including prospective clinical evaluations and implement appropriate means to apply any necessary corrective action. The Commission invites manufacturers, notified bodies and national authorities to take due account of the relevant Directive's provisions. Manufacturers must notify the competent authorities of incidents. Medical Follow-up Good medical practice requires that women, having received a breast implant, are medically followed over a long period of time, to record the effect on health, and to monitor long-term secondary effects. The Commission invites Member States to verify with the medical profession mechanisms under which such monitoring can best take place. The Commission further invites Member States to examine the need and possibility to set up, with due respect for confidentiality and the protection of privacy, national registers for breast implantation that should constitute the basis for traceability and long term research on breast implants. Monitoring National Measures Lastly, the Commission invites Member States to transmit to the Commission the national measures adopted in relation to this Communication. It will regularly examine, with national authorities, the impact of the measures promoted by this Communication. The Rapporteur broadly welcomes these Commission proposals as a valuable step forwards. She maintains the position adopted in the Environment Committee Opinion on Silicone-Gel Breast Implants. That Opinion supported proposals in line with Option 3 identified by the STOA Report, that is, 'no complete ban, but the adoption and implementation of critical specific measures to improve information for patients, tracking and surveillance, quality control and assurance and key research’. Health risks posed by silicone implants in general, with special attention to breast implants, p.9. PE 168.396/Fin.St/rew; http://www.europarl.eu.int/stoa/publi/pdf/99-20-02_en.pdf. However, further amendments are suggested under each of the headings, which feature in the Commission Communication. These amendments aim to tighten manufacture, usage and monitoring and to further the debate on providing prospective patients and the general public with information on silicone-gel breast implants. 18 December 2002 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEN'S RIGHTS AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the communication from the Commission on community and national measures in relation to breast implants ( COM(2001) 666 – C5‑0327/2002 – 2002/2171(COS)) Draftsperson*: Ria G.H.C. Oomen-Ruijten * Hughes procedure PROCEDURE The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities appointed Ria G.H.C. Oomen-Ruijten draftsperson at its meeting of 22 January 2002. The committee considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 5 November 2002 and 3 December 2002. At the last meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Anna Karamanou, chairperson; Marianne Eriksson and Olga Zrihen Zaari