the German Government. against Germany only after another complaint was lodged for the same reasons 11 years later in 2005. The Commission sent a reasoned opinion to the German Government in October 2006. Mr WESTPHAL indicated that German legislation will now be brought into compliance with the requirements of the Life Directive. Since the disclosure requirements in Annex III of the Directive are not relevant in connection with the main mis-selling allegations against ELAS, this point is not examined further in this part of the report. While policyholders have to be informed about complaints procedures and bodies, where they exist, neither the Life Directives nor any other piece of EU legislation requires Member States to provide for redress mechanisms, be it for domestic or EU branch customers. Mr TERTÁK underlined this in his statement before the committee: " There is currently no obligation under European law to have either a financial services ombudsman service that can require the payment of compensation or a guarantee scheme to pay claims in the event of the failure of an insurance undertaking " (H1). Therefore, the UK authorities stressed before the committee that the UK " has been at the forefront of providing redress mechanisms for policyholders and has consistently gone beyond European requirements in providing ombudsmen and compensation schemes " (Mr MAXWELL, H4), even though they do not seem to be available to customers of branches established in other Member States. As stated previously, Ombudsman schemes also exist in Ireland and Germany. Mr MERRICKS emphasises in WE 56 that current Ombudsmen schemes in the UK and Ireland are more comprehensive and have more extensive powers to adjudicate than most comparable schemes in other EU Member States, including Germany. As mentioned above, compensation schemes currently exist in the UK and Germany but not in Ireland. In his remarks before the committee, Mr SEYMOUR (H7) referred to Article 13 of Directive 92/96/EEC, emphasising that it would require " the supervisor of the home Member State to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the assured persons " He argued that the UK regulator, however, refuses to remedy the situation and " continues to take every possible step to block democratic paths to remedy for the losses inflicted ". According to Mr SEYMOUR this " is a serious violation of the Third and Fourth Life Directives ". Responding on this point, Mr BEVERLY from the Commission made it clear that the reference to 'remedy' in this Article does not mean the payment of compensation: " The Article in question deals with powers of the supervisors. The competent authorities must have the power to prevent, stop, or put right any irregularities prejudicial to the interest of the assured persons. Put simply, that provision does not deal with the payment of compensation. To my knowledge, there are no provisions in any of the Life Directives that are concerned with the payment of damages or compensation. That is currently a matter for national law " (H7). Commissioner McCREEVY reiterated this point in H8: " The insurance Directives do