again if it intends to amend the proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Title Proposal for a recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of minors and human dignity and the right of reply in relation to the competitiveness of the European audiovisual and information services industry Proposal for a recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of minors and human dignity and the right of reply in relation to the competitiveness of the European audiovisual , and information on-line services industry Amendment 2 Recital -1 (new) (-1) The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, incorporated into Part II of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe , recognises under Article 1 the inviolability of human dignity, stating that it must be respected and protected. Article 24 of the Charter establishes that children have the right to such protection and care as is necessary for their well-being and that in all actions relating to children, whether taken by public authorities or private institutions, the child's best interests must be a primary consideration. Justification The legal basis used does not mention either dignity or the right to freedom of expression. Other existing provisions that refer to these two fundamental rights should be mentioned. Amendment 3 Recital -1 a (new) (-1a) Article I-2 of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, signed on 29 October 2004, lays down that one of the values on which the European Union is founded is respect for human dignity; Article II-61 of the same Treaty lays down that human dignity is inviolable and must be respected and protected. Justification The principle of preserving human dignity is the origin of all national and international instruments for the protection of fundamental rights. This principle is given as the objective sought through respect for those rights. Amendment 4 Recital -1 b (new) (-1b) Human dignity is inalienable; it does not admit any exclusion or limitation and it constitutes the foundation and origin of all legal instruments drawn up at national and international level to protect human rights. The European Union should gear its political action to protecting the principle of respect for human dignity from any attack. Justification Now more than ever, the principle of human dignity is in serious danger of being breached through the audiovisual and information media, which take advantage of the enormous scale of technological and economic development to reach hundreds of millions of European citizens, especially minors. Amendment 5 Recital -1 c (new) (-1c) Article I-3 of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe lays down that one of the European Union’s objectives is to protect the rights of the child; Article II-84 of the same Treaty lays down that children have the right to the protection and care necessary for their well-being. Justification The Treaty states for the first time that one of the European Union’s objectives is