A/RES/47/196 and A/RES/50/107, – having regard to the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), adopted in 1979 by the UN General Assembly, and the Optional Protocol thereto, A. whereas combating poverty constitutes an absolute priority, B. whereas poverty eradication requires democratic participation and changes in economic structures in order to ensure a more equitable distribution of wealth, C. whereas women in most countries do not have the same access as men to education, training, credit, technology and information, which are necessary to enable them to take advantage of the new economic opportunities arising from the expansion in international trade, D. whereas the impact on women of policies to expand trade depends upon women’s position within their local, regional and national economy as well as their role in the social reproduction of family welfare and care services and whereas women’s employment remains the key to economic independence and has a profound impact on the position of women in society as a whole, E. whereas one of the EU’s challenges is therefore to identify and promote the conditions and the model of trade most beneficial to women and to identify what is necessary for women to benefit from the expansion in trade, F. whereas poverty is defined as “a human condition, characterized by the sustained or chronic deprivation of resources, capabilities, choices, security and power necessary for the enjoyment of an adequate standard of living and other civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights”, G. whereas there is a need for a partnership with the poorest members of society, who should be the leading partners in devising, implementing and assessing international economic policies to combat poverty, H. whereas 70 % of the 1.3 billion of people living in poverty are women; whereas, throughout the world, women are denied the necessary opportunities to improve their economic and social condition, such as property or inheritance rights, or access to education or jobs, while at the same time women have the added responsibility of caring for children and the household, I. whereas, overall, the development of international trade has positive effects by helping to reduce poverty, as international statistics show, J. whereas in many developing countries women from the lowest social strata earn their livings primarily from small-scale farming or by working in the textile and clothing industries producing goods for export, K. whereas in developing countries more women earn their livings in the informal sector than is the case in other countries, whereas women have less control over the land on which they work, inter alia because land ownership rights and inheritance law place them at a disadvantage, and whereas women have less access to capital and loans to invest in their businesses, L. whereas the proportion of women working in unskilled jobs in export industries has grown steadily, which gives them opportunities for more income and control over how the family income is spent, but these women receive lower wages than men for the same work and their working conditions and job security are inferior to those of men,