Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (9 June 2008) As to the first question of the Honourable Member, the Commission is aware of the state of competition in the Belgian broadband Internet market. At EU level, the Commission has been monitoring the take-up of wholesale broadband access (wholesale tariffs and broadband penetration) since 2002. As indicated in the 13th Progress Report, published on 19 March 2008 Communication from the Commission to Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, Towards a Single European Telecoms Market (13th Progress Report), SEC(2008)356. , retail Internet access prices in Belgium continue to be relatively high. More than 45 % of the Belgian retail broadband lines are provided by the incumbent telecom operator Belgacom (January 2008). Competition comes mainly from cable networks, which account for around 39.5 % of the market, a slight increase in comparison with October 2006. Most other new entrants rely on access at the wholesale level to the DSL network of the incumbent to provide their services to consumers (representing a market share of nearly 14 %), in particular bitstream and local loop unbundling. These forms of access are regulated by the Belgian regulator BIPT/IBPT under the Belgian telecommunications legislation. Since 10 January 2008, date of the adoption of the BIPT/IBPT Decision, Belgacom is for example obliged to grant unbundled access to alternative operators under the same conditions as it applies to its vertically integrated company. This allows them to replicate Belgacom's retail offers. Belgacom is furthermore subject to a cost oriented price regulation and BIPT/IBPT will apply a margin squeeze test on both Belgacom's leased lines and wholesale broadband access products, and the relevant retail services. In its letter to the Belgian regulator following notification of the regulatory measures SG-Greffe (2008) D/200001 dd. 3.1.2008. , the Commission has invited BIPT/IBPT to ensure effective implementation of the remedies until the adoption of the next market analysis review, to further enhance the provision of local loop unbundling and in particular, to ensure that the level of local loop unbundling and bitstream prices create appropriate incentives for alternative operators to switch from the bitstream to the unbundling offer. To complement the monitoring of the wholesale markets mentioned above, the Commission services are carrying out a study to provide price data on broadband Internet access. Data available indicate that pricing strategies depend on the competitive and regulatory situation and have an impact on the take-up of broadband. The results of this study will be published shortly. As to the second question of the Honourable Member, it can be noted that the framework Directive Directive 2002/21/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (Framework Directive), OJ L 108, 24.4.2002. does not prevent Member States from having ownership or control of electronic communications undertakings. In that case, Member States must ensure effective structural separation of the regulatory function from activities associated with ownership and control at government level.