resolution for debate by the full House in March next year. Relevant links: European Commission's Comprehensive Monitoring Report Progress report on Bulgaria Progress report on Romania Progress report on Turkey Intergovernmental Conference MEPs concerned over progress in the IGC Statement by the Council Presidency and the Commission on the progress report on the Intergovernmental Conference Debate: 05.11.2003 Italian Under-secretary of Foreign Affairs Roberto ANTONIONE stated that he was pleased to be able to present Parliament with a progress report on the process of constitutional reform of the European Union. The Italian Presidency, he underlined, believes that only with the support of the European Parliament can the considerable problems facing the EU be resolved, and political agreement be achieved by December. For this reason, in keeping with Italy’s traditional position, the Italian Presidency has striven to deepen the participation of European Parliament in the Intergovernmental Conference (IGC). The Draft Treaty drawn up by the Convention is the result of more than just intergovernmental negotiation, he underlined. For the first time in the history of European integration, he recalled, the process has also actively engaged national parliaments and representatives of the civil society. The political value of the success achieved must not, therefore, be squandered or weakened by the Intergovernmental Conference. For its part, the IGC is responsible for improving and completing those sections of the Treaty where full agreement has yet to be reached. Any other solution would be seen as an attempt to downgrade the democratic and transparent method that was launched with the European Convention’s work. If this were to happen, it would be a backward step that citizens would find difficult to understand or justify. This is the belief underpinning the Italian Presidency’s chief aim, which is to reach global political agreement on the Constitution’s text by December. This will open the way to the signing of the future Constitutional Treaty – a Constitution for Europe as President GISCARD D'ESTAING has called it – in the period between 1 May 2004, which is the date set for the accession of the ten new Member States, and the elections for the renewal of your Parliament. The protraction of the constitutional debate beyond these dates would cause two serious problems of legitimacy and transparency. On the one hand, the constituent authority of the Convention would be lost; on the other, European citizens would find themselves voting in European elections without any idea of the future constitutional shape of Europe. The Italian Presidency will certainly not allow itself to be steered into negotiating a watered-down compromise, he stated, that would mark a significant retreat from the Convention’s proposals just to achieve consensus on controversial issues. The main aim is to achieve a quality result in keeping with the expectations of the European public and capable of guaranteeing the Union’s effective and democratic functioning well into the future. After the opening ceremony on 4 October, the real work of the IGC began. As was only to be expected, by far the most complex issues were those relating to institutional affairs. The principal questions had