to the 'common market' clause, the Council refused to reintroduce (as in the Commission's initial proposal and as favoured by certain MEPs) the 'country of origin' principle (under which the law of the Member State where the trader is established is applicable). This point serves to link this directive on unfair commercial practices to the services directive (now being debated by Parliament) and the text regulating sales promotions (currently blocked in Council over the issue of the 'country of origin' principle). Although a report that has been unanimously adopted does not have to be debated in plenary, the MEPs nonetheless wish to hold a debate on the issue, in view of the importance of the proposals for the internal market and for consumers. They also believe the vote on the report should be brought forward from the March to the February part-session. A formal request will be made to that effect. 02.02.2005 Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection In the chair: Phillip WHITEHEAD (PES, UK) Procedure: Codecision, second reading Vote in plenary: February or March Press enquiries: Cezary Lewanowicz - tel. (32-2) 28 44659 e-mail: imco-press@europarl.eu.int Organic food products: MEPs' appetites still unsatisfied Organic food production and organic farming need more encouragement. This Thursday, Parliament's Agriculture Committee adopted, unopposed with one abstention, the report by Marie-Hélène AUBERT (Greens/EFA, FR) on the European action plan in this field. In the EU-15, the total surface area given over to organic farming rose from 0.1% to 3.3% between 1985 and 2002. In total, organic food production accounts for an estimated turnover of €11bn in the EU and €23bn worldwide. Since 1992, the EU has supported organic farming in the context of agri-environmental policy. MEPs welcome the Commission's recognition, in its new action plan, of the important role of this type of farming in the context of achieving the objectives of the new CAP. They note, however, that the Commission does not find it necessary to provide human or financial resources from the Union budget. MEPs stress that more needs to be done: organic farming, they believe, makes a major contribution to the multipurpose role of European agriculture, as well as reducing pollution, protecting biodiversity and farmland and, not least, creating jobs. The three priorities under the plan are: to develop a market in organic food products based on information and enhanced consumer awareness; to increase the effectiveness of state aid at national level to organic farming; to improve and strengthen the Community rules on organic farming and the import and inspection requirements. MEPs insist on the need to encourage state aid to organic farming and to the industries linked to organic food production, with quality systems being promoted. They regret the Commission's failure to present concrete proposals on sectoral organisation, and call for support (especially financial) for the organisation of production and for processing and marketing. They endorse the idea of promoting organic food products in catering, starting with public institutions and schools. They also ask the Commission what line it intends to take on coexistence between GMOs and organic crops. They consider that