until no longer than 31 December 2011. Modification 10 Draft decision Recital 8 (8) In 2006 the United States' Financial Accounting Standards Board and the IASB concluded a Memorandum of Understanding which reaffirmed their objective of convergence between US GAAP and IFRS and outlined the work programme for this purpose. As a result of this work programme many major differences between US GAAP and IFRS have been resolved. In addition, following the dialogue between the Commission and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, reconciliation for Community issuers which prepare their financial statements according to IFRS is no longer required. Therefore, it is appropriate to consider US GAAP equivalent to adopted IFRS from 1 January 2009. (8) In 2006 the United States' Financial Accounting Standards Board and the IASB concluded a Memorandum of Understanding which reaffirmed their objective of convergence between US GAAP and IFRS and outlined the work programme for this purpose. As a result of this work programme many major differences between US GAAP and IFRS have been resolved. In addition, following the dialogue between the Commission and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, reconciliation for Community issuers which prepare their financial statements according to IFRS as issued by the IASB is no longer required. Therefore, it is appropriate to consider US GAAP equivalent to adopted IFRS from 1 January 2009. Modification 11 Draft decision Recital 13 a (new) (13a) The Indian Government and the Indian Institute of Chartered Accountants made a public commitment in July 2007 to adopt IFRS by 31 December 2011 and are taking effective measures to secure the timely and complete transition to IFRS by that date. Modification 12 Draft decision Article 1 − paragraph 1 − introductory part From 1 January 2009, in addition to IFRS adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, a third country issuer shall be permitted to prepare its annual consolidated financial statements and half-yearly consolidated financial statements in accordance with the following standards: From 1 January 2009, in addition to IFRS adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, with regard to annual consolidated financial statements and half-yearly consolidated financial statements , the following standards shall be considered as equivalent to IFRS adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 : Modification 13 Draft decision Article 1 − paragraph 2 Prior to financial years starting on or after 1 January 2012, a third country issuer shall be permitted to prepare its annual consolidated financial statements and half-yearly consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the People's Republic of China or Canada or the Republic of Korea. Prior to financial years starting on or after 1 January 2012, a third country issuer shall be permitted to prepare its annual consolidated financial statements and half-yearly consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of the People's Republic of China or Canada , the Republic of Korea or the Republic of India . Modification 14 Draft decision Article 1 a (new) Article 1a The Commission shall continue to monitor, with the technical assistance of the CESR, the efforts