WRITTEN QUESTION E-1809/09 by Daniel Caspary (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (20 March 2009) Subject: Regulation of animal experiments through the European Cosmetics Directive and the REACH Regulation On 25 February 2009, the Commission replied to my parliamentary question on the evaluation and regulation of animal experiments through the European Cosmetics Directive (76/768/EEC OJ L 262, 27.9.1976, p. 169. ) and the REACH Regulation (1907/2006 OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1. ) (E‑6806/08). From this, the following questions arise: In its reply to Written Question E‑6806/08 the Commission explains in detail the relationship between the ban on animal testing under the Cosmetics Directive and the animal testing requirements of the REACH Regulation. The Commission can see no contradiction between the two laws. There is definitely no contradiction in the fact that cosmetic products may contain substances that were subjected to animal testing before the ban in the Cosmetics Directive came into force. I would like to illustrate my question using a practical example: A couturier wants to develop a completely new dye for the 2012 fashion season, to be used in clothing, home furnishings, wallpaper, paint and cosmetic articles. He asks a substance manufacturer to realise this idea. The manufacturer does succeed in developing a completely new dye. The manufacturer then registers the substance in accordance with REACH and presents the animal experiments that he therefore had to perform, because it is a question of a new substance, for which previous experiments cannot be fallen back on, and because all alternative testing methods are not yet available. The experiments confirm that the new substance is harmless for the planned uses, including use in cosmetics. It seems to me that, in this case, the marketing ban under the European cosmetics law applies, even though the REACH Regulation prescribes compulsory animal testing for this case. European law could therefore have the effect of restricting innovation, in that it prescribes animal testing for newly developed substances on the one hand, and on the other hand prohibits the use of the newly developed substance in cosmetic products because an animal experiment has been carried out. Does the Commission still not see a contradiction between the Cosmetics Directive and REACH?