of EL advertisements published in German newspapers " Buy German, earn British. High returns consistent with a high degree of security - the ideal savings strategy for German investors first had to be devised " and " 13% returns: ask your insurer why they only give you half " full-page advertisements in "D ie Welt am Sonntag ", weekly newspaper, and " Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung ", daily, in February 2000. were submitted. Questioned on this subject, Mr. STEFFEN, representative of BaFin, reported in H6 that Equitable Life Germany stopped the advertisement campaign but that it did so only after it had received several letters from BAV, the German financial regulator at the time, who considered the advertisements to be misleading since the terms used would make German customers expect that the returns mentioned were guaranteed (see also WE 85 Page 8. ). A copy of this exchange of correspondence has been submitted to the committee by BaFin (WE-CONF 17). c.) Allegations of mis-selling Like many UK victims, most Irish policyholders claim that when they decided to invest with Equitable, they were not properly informed about the GAR-related risks associated with their policies (see in particular WE-FILE 33 and other pieces of written evidence) See also WE 3, WE-FILE 2, WE-FILE 4, WE-FILE 9, WE-FILE 11, WE-FILE 13, WE-FILE 14, WE-FILE 15. . By way of example, Irish policyholder Mr. O'FARRELL (WE-FILE 9) recalls how "I was never informed of the potential GAR liability looming over the fund and the possible consequences to my pensions funds having to partly finance that liability." Mr TROY (WE-FILE 4) considers he was mis-sold his policy in December 1999 as "the company had major difficulties with its liabilities to pension funds in the UK ... and I was not made aware or privy to this." One Irish policyholder told the committee during its delegation visit to Ireland, that he was sold his with-profits policy only a few days before the Hyman judgement. However, the mis-selling allegations made by international (in particular Irish) policyholders, go beyond the mere failure of the society to disclose the potential GAR-liability to prospective customers in general terms. During its meeting with Irish policyholders in Dublin on 6 October 2006, many of the policyholders referred to misleading information they claim to have received from ELAS to the effect that they would be buying into a separate Irish fund, which would be ring-fenced from the UK fund and therefore not affected by any liabilities within the UK fund. This was later confirmed by some of those Irish policyholders who responded to the questionnaire which had been sent to them by the committee (WE-FILE 33). Mr. Seamus POWER, a former ELAS sales representative in Ireland (WE-FILE 2), said that he " heard about the GAR issue through the Sunday Times in late 1998. By then there were about 12 sales people and none of us had ever heard about the guaranteed annuities, as they were never sold in Ireland . We asked the management about the situation and were told it was nothing to do