WRITTEN QUESTION E-4298/09 by Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (14 September 2009) Subject: Possible breach of Directive 2006/118/EC and Directive 2000/60/EC by the Castor project in Vinaròs (Spain) The environmental impact study on the Castor project for natural gas storage in the town of Vinaròs (Spain) states that ‘furthermore, despite the minute possibility of their occurrence, the potential effects caused by accidents (spillages of fuel or other dangerous substances, breakage of gas pipelines etc.) are being taken into consideration’. Therefore, it is possible that spillages related to the storage and handling of waste and chemicals (during both the construction of facilities and their subsequent operation) could occur. The same is true of accidental discharges of wastewater which could seriously harm the quality of water found in the network of irrigation wells in the area, affect groundwater, and, since the construction of the land-based operating plant is planned in a citrus farming area, have considerable negative economic consequences as well as causing a health risk due to the shallow nature of the wells. The recital of Directive 2006/118/EC OJ L 372, 27.12.2006 , p. 19. states that ‘Groundwater is a valuable natural resource and as such should be protected from deterioration and chemical pollution. This is particularly important for groundwater-dependent ecosystems and for the use of groundwater in water supply for human consumption’. In order to protect the environment as a whole and our health in particular, it is necessary to avoid, prevent and reduce the presence of harmful substances in groundwater as laid down in Article 4 of Directive 2000/60/EC OJ L 372, 22.12.2000 , p. 1. . The company responsible for the project has also failed to provide analysis of the environmental consequences on the surrounding air and surface water as well as on groundwater and soil from the point of view of the potential harm caused to the surrounding area. Was the Commission fully aware of this situation? What steps has it taken or will it take in this light? What mechanisms does the Commission have to ensure compliance with the directive in question?