the determination shown by the Guatemalan judges to bring the 'Gerardi trial' to a close; 3. Welcomes the latest decisions taken by the courts in connection with this case and asks - and expects - the Guatemalan authorities to guarantee the Guatemalan judicial authorities responsible for investigating the crimes full independence and complete freedom in carrying out their work; 4. Expresses concern at the recent acts of violence perpetrated in the country, the victims of which included judges and other judicial officials, and which were also directed at human rights activists and defenders, journalists, political leaders and some EU citizens; 5. Firmly condemns such acts, which seriously undermine the climate of peaceful coexistence and respect for the rule of law which are essential to the process of Guatemalan national reconciliation and calls on the Guatemalan government to ensure that the necessary mechanisms are in place to protect potential victims of such attacks and that the perpetrators are brought to justice, so as to eliminate the risk of impunity, in line with the recommendations of the Commission for Historical Clarification; 6. Asks the Commission and the Member States to support the initiatives currently in progress with a view to bringing those responsible for genocide and crimes against humanity to justice and also to support the Guatemalan State in protecting witnesses, lawyers and human rights organisations involved in bringing legal actions against those allegedly responsible for these crimes; 7. Emphasises the special importance of ending the atmosphere of impunity for political crimes and gross human rights abuses; 8. Expresses its support for the Guatemalan people and authorities in their efforts to implement the peace accords so as to consolidate democracy, the rule of law and economic, social and political development in their country; 9. Calls on the Commission to keep a watchful eye on Guatemala's progress towards peace and democracy. 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the Member States, and to the Guatemalan Government and Parliament, the Secretary-General of the OAS and the Central American Parliament.