national level to avoid the risk of overlapping; · cooperation with countries of origin, including clear information for potential immigrants about their job prospects and future living conditions. EU citizens' acceptance of legal economic migration depends to a large extent on everything possible being done to prevent illegal migration, through measures to tackle illegal employment and human trafficking, the protection of external borders and a rigorous return policy. Mass regularisation aims to provide prospects for illegal migrants, but is no substitute for substantial policies for dealing with illegal immigration or an effective means of recruiting economic migrants. . It is important to draw attention at this point to the importance of a national and European information policy which identifies the mood of citizens and explains the situation, the proposed measures and their repercussions. This will also involve bridging the obvious gap between the analysis of requirements and public perception. The focus of discussion, and hence the approach to European regulation of economic migration, should not be the pros and cons of immigration but rather ways of regulating immigration as such. Migration from one county to another, which today is mainly immigration into Europe, took place in the past and is still taking place. In overall terms mobility is increasing. This is partly the result of the growing cross-border movements of goods and financial flows, greater trade volumes, global circulation of knowledge, cross-border service provision and firms operating internationally. The need-based management of economic migration requires comprehensive and above all reliable data. On the one hand, the Member States should make this material available and on the other there needs to be a timely evaluation at European level. Statistics are a key factor in both regulations on migration and the acceptance of migrants. Although the EU has never seen itself as a region of immigration in the American or Canadian sense of a country being settled by a potential labour force, today significantly more people are immigrating into the EU than into the traditional countries of immigration. Arrangements are required to manage these migratory flows ‘Skilled migration’ is geared to the desired economic outcomes in the host country. It focuses on the effects of immigration on growth, innovation, economic structure, wage trends, the labour market and the social security system. A clear distinction has to be drawn between economic migration and the admission of third-country nationals on humanitarian grounds. The priority concerns of refugees and asylum-seekers are significantly different from those of economic migrants. The same applies to the expectations that host countries have of these different groups of migrants. In contrast to admission on humanitarian grounds, in the case of economic migration the focus must be clearly on the need for specific selection of migrants. Criteria such as the level of education, vocational qualifications and experience, the existence of employment relationships. knowledge of languages and family connections are key considerations. In any case, when recruiting third-country nationals for employment purposes it must be borne in mind that it is not just a question of the utilisation of labour. Individuals who have followed