- tel. (32-2) 28 44304 e-mail: cont-press@europarl.eu.int Hearing of Danuta Hübner (regional policy) The allocation of funding between the old and new Member States, economic convergence of industrialised regions undergoing restructuring and the ceiling for the Financial Perspective: these were the main topics discussed this Tuesday morning at the hearing of Danuta HÜBNER, Commissioner-designate for Poland, who will be responsible for regional policy. In her opening address to members of the Committee on Regional Development, Mrs Hübner first stressed the importance of good relations with the European Parliament because she considered the confidence of its Members vital for the future. Recalling that one of the main priorities of the EU was ratification of the Constitutional Treaty, she said that she was "more optimistic than many others were" regarding the outcome of this process. Another major challenge was remedying weak economic growth, which was jeopardising the stability of the EU's public finances and hampering its efforts to act on the world stage. Taking responsibility for regional policy at a time when the reform of the Structural Funds was already under way, Mrs Hübner gave an assurance that she "fully supports" this reform, whose aim is above all to increase the EU's growth potential and improve its competitiveness. The negotiations on the five legislative proposals, the "package" adopted by the Commission on 14 July 2004, will be central to the debate on the future of regional policy in the next two years. Quality, efficiency and transparency If approved by the EP, Mrs Hübner will pursue three priorities: winding up the programmes for the period 1994-1999, completing the 2000-2006 programming period and preparing for a smooth transition to the period 2007-2013. She told MEPs that this period of transition and reform would require an "intensive dialogue" with all concerned. The success of the reform would also depend very much on the Commission's ability to conduct the dialogue successfully with all partners at various levels, such as "regions, towns, associations, universities, training centres and fora for political debate" , as she feels it is not possible to communicate effectively enough from Brussels. Mrs Hübner also sought to highlight three goals - quality, efficiency and transparency - not only because these are basic principles required in cofinancing, but also because they can help citizens to understand the EU better. She promised to ensure that all Community measures will deliver "added value, which means doing more and better" in comparison with the measures of the Member States and regions. In Mrs Hübner's view, "there is no conflict between cohesion and competitiveness" . These are the two ingredients needed for the future development of the EU. She also stressed the need to step up cross-border and international cooperation, which contributes much to the integration of different territories and is an important channel for exchanging good practice. The very remote regions, the Nordic regions with low population densities, mountain regions and other areas with natural disadvantages, less favoured urban districts, and rural areas represent "territorial diversity, which is an asset to the Union" . And the reform must take all