Conclusions of 1-2 June 2006 on Common values and principles in European Union health systems OJ C 146, 22.6.2006, p. 1. ("Council Conclusions of 1-2 June 2006") , the Council ║ adopted a statement on "Common values and principles" ║ and recognised the particular value of an initiative on cross-border healthcare ensuring clarity for European citizens about their rights and entitlements when they move from one Member State to another in order to ensure legal certainty. ( 10 ) This Directive aims to establish a general framework for provision of safe, high quality and efficient cross-border healthcare in the Community in relation to patients mobility as well as a to a high level of protection of health, whilst fully respecting the responsibilities of the Member States for the definition of social security benefits related to health and for the organisation and delivery of healthcare and medical care as well as of social security benefits in particular for sickness. ( 11 ) This Directive on the application of patients" rights in cross-border healthcare applies to all types of healthcare. As confirmed by the Court of Justice, neither the special nature of healthcare nor the way in which it is organised or financed removes it from the ambit of the fundamental principle of freedom of movement. As regards long-term care, this Directive does not apply to assistance and support for families or individuals who are, over an extended period of time, in ║ particular ║ need of nursing, support or care in so far as this involves specific expert treatment or help provided by a social security system, including above all such long-term care services as are considered necessary in order to provide the person in need of care with as full and independent a life as possible. This Directive does not apply, for example, to residential homes or housing, or assistance provided to elderly people or children by social workers or volunteer carers or professionals other than health professionals. (12) This Directive does not apply to organ transplantations. Due to their specific nature, they will be regulated by a separate directive. ( 13 ) For the purpose of this Directive, the concept of "cross-border healthcare" only covers the use of healthcare in a Member State other than that where the patient is an insured person. This is what is referred to as 'patient mobility' . ( 14 ) As recognised by the Member States in the Council Conclusions of 1-2 June 2006, there is a set of operating principles that are shared by health systems throughout the Community. Those operating principles include quality, safety, care that is based on evidence and ethics, patient involvement, redress, the fundamental right to privacy with respect to the processing of personal data, and confidentiality. Patients, professionals and authorities responsible for health systems must be able to rely on those operating principles being respected and structures provided for their implementation throughout the Community. It is therefore appropriate to require that it is the authorities of the Member State on whose territory the healthcare is provided, which are responsible