excessive bonuses. In particular, the uplifts in policy values granted to non-GAR policyholders, who in exchange waived their right to pursue claims, were more than eliminated by subsequent cuts. Numerous accounts suggest that the Society may have been aware at the time it proposed the scheme that the uplifts in policy values could not be sustained under normal circumstances. However, it failed to communicate this to policyholders, who may well have voted against the scheme, had they been made aware of the full state of the Society's finances. The committee concludes that the eventual result of the Scheme was such that all remaining policyholders lost their right to pursue claims against the Society while their losses continued to increase. 3. Complaints to ELAS and policy reviews Mr THOMSON informed the committee that ELAS has in place an internal complaints-handling process, such as is required by FSA regulations. He said that since 2001 the Society has dealt with over 40.000 complaints about a wide range of issues. Those complaints, which related to " matters unique to the Society's situation ... have for the most part been dealt with via Policy Reviews " (WE 47 Page 4. ). The Policy Reviews ('rectification scheme', 'non-GAR leavers' scheme' and 'managed pension review') together addressed more than 100.000 cases, many of which were identified and settled by the Society without a complaint being made by the policyholder, according to Mr THOMSON (WE 47 Page 4. ). Firstly, the 'rectification scheme' (75.000 cases) compensated GAR policyholders whose policies had matured before the House of Lords judgement ordered the Society to meet its commitments to GAR policyholders. It gave them the benefits that they would have received had the judgement been known at the time. Secondly, the 'managed pension review' concerned 20.000 cases of contracts whereby the policyholder is enabled to take an income from a pension policy without at that stage converting the whole pension policy into an annuity. Financial journalist Mr BAIN, however, claimed in H8 that " most of the ... cases in the managed pension review had been told they were due no redress, with a minority having been offered tiny settlements ". He gave an example of a victim who was offered £522 of compensation by ELAS as a result of the review. It was only after the victim threatened to take legal action that ELAS " [agreed] to pay him GBP 81.907 " according to Mr BAIN (H8). Thirdly, the 'non-GAR leavers' scheme' addressed about 15.000 of non-GAR policyholders who had taken out policies before the Compromise Scheme took effect. They were offered compensation at the maximum of 5% level of loss, according to Mr THOMSON (H2). The FSA indicated that it " oversaw [this] process of giving appropriate compensation to policyholders who left Equitable too early to benefit from the Compromise Scheme " (Mr STRACHAN, H4). Policyholders' representatives stressed that the offers made by the Society individually or as a result of policy reviews were derisory, representing only a small fraction of what people had actually lost. However, the vast majority of