Answer given by Mr Mandelson on behalf of the Commission (17 August 2007) Despite the fact that the meeting ended up with no agreement, the G4 had very useful discussions in Potsdam across a wide agenda. The whole terrain of the negotiations was covered in great detail. There was good faith and goodwill amongst all the negotiators, but no point of convergence could be reached across the whole agenda. The principal area of difference that remains is the exchange rate between agriculture and industrial tariffs (NAMA) - the balance of fairness and ambition that is the key to the Round’s ultimate success. On this issue it is clear that there were still major political differences to solve between the G4 Members. By consequence, there was no question of the EU making any additional move on agriculture in order to feed the dynamics of the negotiation. The EU position on agriculture therefore remains based on the offer it made in October 2005. Since then, the EC has indeed hinted at potential flexibility, that could be shown by the EC in the case that the other key players would make satisfactory proposals, notably on industrial tariffs and on agricultural subsidies, but, until now, the full conditions for deploying such flexibility were not present. In any case, such flexibility would always respect the EU's red lines. Since Potsdam, the negotiating process has continued. The EU has had bilateral contacts, at several levels, with other World Trade Organisation Members or constituencies, such as for example the African group, and has further engaged in the Geneva-based technical negotiating groups. On 17 July 2007, the Chairs of the respective negotiating groups on Agriculture and on Industrial Products issued papers with draft modalities for an agreement, and the EU is now actively engaged in the discussion of these papers by Ambassadors in Geneva, in view of preparing revised texts to serve as a basis for possible ministerial discussion in autumn 2007. In the further conduct of the negotiations, the EU will continue to stick to its line that the Round should yield a balanced and ambitious result that delivers on its development promises, and that such a result can only be reached if those in a position to contribute, i.e. the developed countries and the major emerging economies, take their responsibilities in a proportional manner.