or registered partners may choose by mutual agreement the law applicable to divorce and legal separation or to the dissolution of a registered partnership , provided that such law is in conformity with the fundamental rights defined in the Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and with the principle of public policy, from among the following laws: Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment b) the law of the State of the spouses' last habitual residence if one of them still lives there at the time of conclusion of the agreement; (b) the law of the State of the spouses' /registered partners ' last habitual residence if one of them still lives there at the time of conclusion of the agreement , provided that the application of that law does not penalise the weaker spouse or partner ; Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – point d Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (d) the lex fori. (d) the law of the State in which the marriage or registered partnership took place . Justification It seems rational that this criterion should be included with the others for the purpose of choosing the applicable law and that the lex fori criteria should be withdrawn to better protect the weaker party. Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. The term ‘habitual residence’ shall mean a person’s ordinary place of abode. Justification A definition of the term habitual residence should be provided so as to avoid as much as possible arbitrary interpretations. The court, of course, has to examine all relevant facts before it applies the definition. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Without prejudice to paragraph 4, an agreement designating the applicable law may be concluded and modified at any time, but at the latest when the court is seised. 2. Without prejudice to paragraph 4, an agreement designating the applicable law may be concluded and modified at any time, but at the latest when the court is seised. The agreement must consider the option of recourse to mediation in order to settle any disagreements concerning the divorce or separation. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment However, if the law of the participating Member State in which the two spouses have their habitual residence at the time of conclusion of the agreement lays down additional formal requirements for this type of agreement, those requirements shall apply. If the spouses are habitually resident in different participating Member States and the laws of those Member States provide for different formal requirements, the agreement shall be formally valid if it satisfies the requirements of either of those laws. However, if the law of the participating Member State in which the two spouses /registered partners