Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (13 February 2009) Member States are responsible for the protection of the public from potential adverse health effects from electromagnetic fields (EMF). As a result, they are free to implement all the measures they deem necessary. On 19 January 2009, the EU Scientific Committee on Emerging and Newly Identified Health Risks (Scenihr) has adopted an opinion providing the latest update on the scientific evidence regarding the potential health risks from electromagnetic fields http://ec.europa.eu/health/ph_risk/committees/04_scenihr/docs/scenihr_o_022.pdf . The previous update dated from 2007. For this update, the Committee reviewed all the scientific evidence that became available since 2007 (about 180 scientific publications). This updated opinion concludes, based on three independent lines of evidence (epidemiological, animal and in vitro studies), that exposure to radiofrequency (RF) fields (such as those emitted by mobile phones) is unlikely to lead to an increase in cancer in humans. However, as the widespread duration of exposure of humans to RF fields from mobile phones is shorter than the induction time of some cancers, further studies are required to identify whether considerably longer-term (well beyond 10 years) human exposure to such phones might pose some cancer risk. From the risk assessment perspective it is important to recognise that information on possible effects caused by RF fields in children is limited. More research is being performed to address this issue, in particular the epidemiological study Mobikids, looking at children's mobile phone use and cancer, financed under the 7th Framework Programme. Given the seriousness of these issues and noting the growing public concern on this subject as well as the absence of clear scientific evidence on many questions, the Commission is holding a workshop during February 2009 on Electromagnetic fields and Health, bringing together scientists, stakeholders and policy‑makers to discuss the latest scientific assessments on EMF and health and generate a constructive policy dialogue.