citizens is expressed through electoral processes in which independence is guaranteed. 5. The intention to replace the legislative process with informal and flexible decision-making procedures also threatens one of democracy’s basic pillars: legislation. In a democracy, legislation, or law, is the expression of the general will. Constitutions grant legislative power to the institution which is the most credible representative of the people’s will: Parliament. In the European Union, legislative power is shared by two institutions: Parliament, directly elected by the citizens, and the Council, made up of members of democratic governments who are in turn answerable to their own national parliaments. Replacing this process with ‘dialogue’ with interested parties, regional and local authorities or representatives of non-governmental organisations would represent a serious distortion of democratic processes. Direct democracy, feasible in the small cities of ancient Greece or in a Swiss district with a small population, cannot be translated to large-scale modern societies. The multiplication of consultation procedures and bodies recommended by the White Paper will not improve decision-making procedures but will in most cases complicate and delay them even more. 6. The Commission’s proposals designed to reduce the scope of Community legislation would imply a real reduction in the powers of Parliament and the Council, are in breach of the Treaties and would be counter-productive, because they would limit the scope to harmonise the different national laws. Co-regulation would leave legislative powers in the hands of powerful economic groups, to the detriment of the public interest and the weakest sectors – workers and consumers – who are best defended by means of laws adopted by democratically elected bodies. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: Paragraph 1 Recommends that the term ‘governance’ should be replaced by another more easily understood expression such as ‘improvement of decision-making processes’ or ‘democratic government’. Paragraph 2 Considers that Parliament cannot accept the move to reduce the legislative powers and the participation in the legislative process of the one institution to be directly elected by European citizens. Enhancing communication between citizens and the institutions of the Union necessarily entails strengthening Parliament’s legislative powers, giving more time in which to use them and extending the realm of Community legislation in order to achieve effective harmonisation of the diverse range of national legal systems. Paragraph 3 Considers that the improvement of communication systems between citizens and the Community institutions is no substitute for access by citizens to public office through electoral processes which are open and guaranteed. The only proper way for European civil society to express itself democratically is through these electoral processes and the representatives elected at the polling-booths. Paragraph 4 Affirms that in democratic societies the public legislative process is the responsibility of representative bodies elected by the people, and cannot be replaced by self-regulatory or co-regulatory systems run by parties with an economic stake in the outcome. Paragraph 5 Is aware of the fact that Community law adopted through the