on its 2006 activity report and encourages it to continue with its activities to promote the development of the European economy and foster growth, job creation, and interregional and social cohesion". It also "welcomes the EIB’s transparency and its total cooperation with Parliament". The Budgetary Control Committee is recommending that Parliament sign off the accounts of all the EU's institutions and agencies for the financial year 2006 . However, it is also calling for the creation of a joint Parliament-Commission group to monitor the Commission's supervision of the structural funds and certain other matters. On Tuesday afternoon, MEPs will also debate establishment of European satellite navigation system Galileo . The Industry Committee is recommending approval of a first-reading compromise on Galileo's deployment phase which would pave the way for the European satellite radio navigation system to be operational by 2013. Parliament will also debate the protests against price rises of food products in the EU and in developing countries following statements from the Council and the Commission. A resolution will be voted on at one of the May plenary sessions. The House will also examine China's policy and its effects on Africa . The EP Development Committee points the finger at investments made by China with no strings attached in African countries ruled by oppressive regimes. This policy helps perpetuate human rights violations, say MEPs in the committee, who also highlight Beijing's role in the spread of arms and the conditions under which natural resources are being exploited. On Tuesday evening, MEPs debate the implementation of the posting of workers directive following the judgements of the European Court of Justice . Wednesday 23 April 2008 The key debates of the Strasbourg plenary are on the EU - Latin America and Caribbean Summit and negotiations between the EU and US on visa waiver rules . The EU-LAC summit (between Latin America, the Caribbean and the European Union), which is due to take place on 16-17 May in Lima, Peru, is the subject of a plenary debate with the Council and Commission. MEPs will also vote on a resolution. The outcome of talks held on 12-13 March between the EU troika and the United States on the USA's visa waiver program will be the subject of a debate by MEPs with the Council and Commission. The visa waiver program allows citizens of certain countries deemed by the US authorities to present a low security risk to travel to the USA for up to 90 days without having to obtain a visa. These countries include all those that were EU Member States before 2004 (except Greece) plus Slovenia. All the other "new" Member States are excluded from the program. However, some of these states (Czech Republic, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary and Slovakia) have recently signed bilateral agreements with the US enabling them to be admitted to the program. MEPs will vote on a resolution in May. The Slovenian President Dr Danilo Türk will address the European Parliament on Wednesday 23 April at midday . Slovenia currently holds the six-month rotating presidency of the EU. The