Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (20 March 2009) The Honourable Member refers to a recent report which showed that data on the hard disks of PCs which were sold second hand could be restored by the subsequent acquirer, and that in some cases restored files contained personal data or other sensitive information. The issue of the secure disposal and re-use of digital storage media is indeed a very important issue that could have an impact on the protection of personal data and privacy of individuals. Directive 95/46/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (‘Data Protection Directive’) OJ L 281,23.11.1995. imposes obligations on entities processing personal data to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect personal data against unauthorised disclosure or access. This obligation would also apply in case of storage media that are no longer used. The supervision and enforcement of the national provisions transposing the Data Protection Directive lies with the national supervisory Data Protection Authorities. In addition to their tasks, some Data Protection Authorities also provide technical advice on how to achieve this objective. E.g. the Italian DPA: Istruzioni pratiche per una cancellazione sicura dei dati: le raccomandazioni degli operatori, http://www.garanteprivacy.it/garante/doc.jsp?ID=1574080 While individuals processing data in the course of a purely personal or household activity are not subject to the obligations of the directive, it is in the interest of national authorities that their citizens should be properly informed on the risks of leaving information on a hard disk even when such information is not visible to normal file reading tools any more. Users should be able to make a proper judgment of the risks before deciding on the method of disposal. This could for instance form part of the product guidelines. In addition, raising the awareness of users both on security and privacy risks as well as on existing good security practices to minimise such risks is extremely important. This is an area in which the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) is making substantial efforts in cooperation with Member States. The Commission also welcomes the efforts of consumer organisations in this domain E.g. UK consumer magazine Which?: http://www.fbiic.gov/public/2009/jan/PC_disposal_Jan_09.pdf . Furthermore, there are standards and guidelines available for media sanitization, such as the British HMG Infosec Standard 5 4 HMG: the British HMG Infosec Standard 5 — this is British standard for information security (HMG: Her Majesty's Government aka the British Government). , the German BSI/VSITR BSI: Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik (Federal Office for Information Security); VSITR: Verschlussachen-IT Richtinien (VSITR) Standard (a German standard for data destruction). , the NIST SP 800-88 NIST is the USA's National Institute of Standards and Technology. NIST SP 800-88 is a Special Publication of NIST that was issued in Sept 2006 and was sponsored by the US Homeland Security Department. It is a document that describes ‘Media Sanitisation’ — the document is an attempt to standardise how various