Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (4 June 2010) The responsibility for ensuring that consumer products, placed on the EU market, are safe, regardless of their country of origin, lies first and foremost with economic operators, i.e. European manufacturers and importers. Member States are responsible for market surveillance and the enforcement of safety requirements that are applicable to consumer products. The role of the Commission is to monitor the implementation of the relevant legislation, to facilitate cooperation between Member States and actively engage with international partners. As to imports of Chinese goods into the EU, the latest data from the rapid alert system for non-food consumer products (RAPEX), presented by the Commission on 15 April 2010, show that 1 013 notifications for products posing a serious risk concerned products manufactured in China (including Hong Kong). This represents a share of 60 % compared to 59 % in 2008 and is a smaller increase than that recorded from 2007 to 2008 (which saw a 7 % increase from 52 % to 59 %). This data reflects increasing imports of goods to the EU from China, targeted enforcement actions taken at the national level addressing products of Chinese origin, more effective cooperation between the EU and China and more accurate data on the country of origin of notified products provided through RAPEX. In the framework of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) between the Commission Directorate-General for Health and Consumers and the relevant Chinese authority (General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine — AQSIQ), RAPEX information on products of Chinese origin is now available to the Chinese authority through an online ‘RAPEX-CHINA’ application. This allows the Chinese authorities to follow up directly on notifications regarding unsafe products coming from their territory and identify areas where compliance with the applicable EU safety requirements is weaker. Analysis of quarterly follow-up reports received so far from the Chinese authority shows that it has followed up 1007 RAPEX notifications. In 566 cases (56 %) their investigations resulted in preventive or restrictive measures being adopted either by AQSIQ or voluntarily by the Chinese manufacturer or exporter (e.g. a ban to exports or strengthened supervision), while in 441 cases (44 %) no measures were taken mainly due to insufficiently detailed information on the Chinese company responsible for manufacturing or exporting products to the EU. Work to improve product traceability continues. In the sectors where Chinese imports, and hence the related safety concerns, are higher, the cooperation between the EU and China is very intense. This is the case for example of toys, regarding which a Roadmap for Safer Toys was agreed in 2006 between AQSIQ and the Commission Directorates-General for Health and Consumers and for Enterprise and Industry. In addition a working group on the electrical and mechanical equipment regarding was set up in the framework of the Regulatory Dialogue between the Commission Directorates-General for Enterprise and Industry and AQSIQ. These cooperation mechanisms foresee regular meetings between European and Chinese product safety experts (including regulators, standardisers, industry and EU Member State enforcement authorities), a continuous exchange