Question for written answer P-009758/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Jürgen Creutzmann (ALDE) (24 October 2011) Subject: Proposed changes with regard to goods in transit in Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 The current proposal from the European Commission on the revision of Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 on customs enforcement of IPRs removed the expressed prohibition of trans-shipment of counterfeit goods in Recital 3 of the current regulation. Furthermore, Article 1.1 of the new proposal states that ‘this Regulation shall not apply to goods that have been released for free circulation under the end-use regime (…)’, whereas the current regulation does apply to such goods as well as to goods subject to numerous other customs procedures (Article 1). Moreover, the Commission proposal removed Recital 8, which specified that, when assessing infringements of IPR according to national law, customs authorities shall apply the same criteria as for goods that have been manufactured in the respective Member State (‘manufacturing fiction’). Meanwhile, Recital 17 of the new proposal indicates that, with regard to medicines in transit, customs authorities should, when assessing a risk of infringement of intellectual property rights, take account of any substantial likelihood of diversion of these goods onto the market of the Union. Right holders are worried that the described changes will leave them unable to take action or even gather information on counterfeit and pirate goods in transit in the EU between non-Member States, and endanger the protection of consumers in the EU (and outside the EU) against potentially dangerous fake products. 1. What are the specific reasons for the described changes with regard to goods in transit? 2. If customs authorities no longer have competence to apprehend these products, how does the Commission intend to avoid that counterfeit goods declared as ‘being in transit’ will increasingly end up on the EU market? 3. Why does the proposal not distinguish between legitimate trade of generic medicines and counterfeit medicines which could pose risks to the health and safety of consumers? 4. Why did the Commission not include a general provision clarifying that customs authorities have to assess the risk of diversion of suspected goods onto the internal market according to specified criteria?