which must be made available to consumers before a contract is concluded; 2. Welcomes the fact that the first such agreement to be reached concerns home loans, since these are usually the most important financial commitments that consumers enter into; 3. Stresses the constructive part played by the Commission, which has made a substantial contribution to the emergence of this voluntary, self-policing agreement; 4. Asks the Commission to draw up a report on the experience gained in the negotiations on the Code; 5. Criticises, however, the lack of transparency in the protracted negotiations leading up to the signing of the Code; 6. Calls on the Commission, where future negotiations on voluntary agreements are concerned, to keep the European Parliament informed at regular intervals about the progress thereof; 7. Stresses the example set by the Code in expressing the subsidiarity principle, as a voluntary agreement between market participants, by comparison with a legislative act at European level; 8. Welcomes the fact that the Code has resulted in two sets of harmonised pre-contractual information, including helpful definitions, being made available, namely general information and personalised information in the form of a European Standardised Information Sheet; 9. Suggests that, with the aim of improving the comparability of consumer information, a narrow definition of a common effective annual interest rate (including net interest, administrative costs, commission/fees) for home loans, together with the data needed to ensure comprehensibility, be included in the European Standardised Information Sheet, the calculation of which shall be uniform throughout the Community and which shall be based on the consumer credit Directive; 10. Points out that coordination of the substance of European legislative acts, irrespective of their legal form, is essential for the completion of the European internal market in financial services; 11. Calls on the Commission and the Council, therefore, bearing in mind this need for substantive consistency between European legislative acts, to ensure that the definition of home loan agreed in the Code is also applied in other agreements and legislative acts, in particular in the future Directive concerning the distance marketing of consumer financial services and in the forthcoming modification of the consumer credit Directive; 12. Welcomes the fact that by recommending the Code, including the planned establishment of a register showing all lenders offering home loans, together with the lenders adhering to the Code, the Commission has lastingly improved the preconditions for general acceptance of the Code; 13. Hopes that the agreement will result in an increased cross-border supply of lending and hence more competition, from which consumers can benefit through greater transparency and more comprehensive service provision, especially since different regulations under civil law mean that attempts to harmonise legislation have little prospect of success; 14. Calls on all financial service providers in the European Union who offer home loans, regardless of whether they are members of the associations which have signed the Code, to adhere to and implement the Code; 15. Calls, in addition, on all European lenders offering home loans located outside the European Union, and in particular those in the candidate countries, to adhere to