manufacturing suitable medicinal products which patients in developing countries can afford to buy. Justification The medicinal-product R&D process is divided into a number of stages, of which clinical trials are only one. That stage is an important one and it rightly deserves greater public investment. It must nonetheless be seen in relationship to the preceding and subsequent stages of the process. The major shortcomings which are currently observed in the R&D process concerned with new medicinal products for the diseases in question occur at the stage preceding the clinical trials (pre-clinical trials, which are of little scientific interest and which are above all intensely technical) and in the subsequent stage (production, distribution and patient provision). Only if all the stages of the process are completed will a patient finally be able to secure access to treatment and be cared for. Amendment 9 Recital 9 (9) At present, the research and development programmes or activities undertaken individually at national level are not the subject of coordination at European level and do not allow a coherent approach at European level for an effective campaign against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. (9) At present, the research and development programmes or activities undertaken individually at national level are not the subject of coordination at European level and do not allow a coherent approach at European level for an effective research and technological development programme against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries . Justification Self explanatory - second phrase emphasises that the main benefits of the EDCTP should be in developing countries. Amendment 10 Recital 10 (10) Wishing to have a coherent approach at European level and to act effectively against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, the participating States agreed to establish a partnership on clinical trials between European countries and the developing countries in order to obtain a critical mass in terms of human and financial resources and the combination of additional expertise and resources available in various countries across Europe. (10) Wishing to have a coherent approach at European level and to act effectively against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, the participating States have agreed to establish a clinical trials partnership between European countries and developing countries in order to obtain a critical mass in terms of human and financial resources to carry out effective, ethical and appropriate clinical trials in partnership with and in developing countries. Justification The added value of this initiative would be in the fact that it specifically addresses problems related to HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries. The text of this decision can not leave any ambiguity on this issue and the structure of the EDCTP will have to ensure an active participation and responsibility of the developing countries in the decisions on priorities and agenda. Amendment 11 Recital 10a (new) (10a) The development of new intervention tools to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB should meet the specific needs of the developing countries as determined by them, in particular access to effective, easy-to-use products which ordinary people can afford to buy. Justification The results of R&D for treating and caring