Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (9 January 2012) 1. On 1 July 2011, Mr Johan Persson and Mr Martin Schibbye were arrested in Southern Ethiopia together with two members of an armed group of the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF). They have, on 7 September, been charged under the Ethiopian antiterrorist legislation for abetting and rendering professional assistance to the ONLF, and for entering illegally into Ethiopia. Their trial started in the week of 18 October. The EU observed the trial, with several EU Member States Ambassadors present, as well as the United States and Canadian Ambassadors. Mr Persson and Mr Schibbye admitted to entering Ethiopia illegally but denied that they were intending to conduct terrorist activities. On 3 November, the Ethiopian judge of the case acquitted Mr Persson and Mr Schibbye of the charges related to planning a terrorist act. However, the judge upheld the allegations they had assisted the secessionist ONLF rebel group as well as entering Ethiopia illegally and ordered to keep them in detention. EU ambassadors will continue to observe the trial, and those of Ethiopians accused in similar fashion under the antiterrorist law. The EU will also take up issues of human rights, including the application of the anti-terrorism law as part of its regular political dialogue with the Ethiopian government. 2. Freedom of opinion and expression is a fundamental right of every human being and an inherent part of human dignity. It is also a cornerstone of democracy and for the free flow of information to which everyone is entitled. It is enshrined in many international and regional human rights instruments. In this spirit, the EU is in reality active in promoting freedom of expression through the different tools that are at its disposal. The EU has been continuously raising its concerns over the arrests of and restrictions to the work of journalists — in statements, in the framework of the political dialogues it has with third countries, as well as in international fora. This goes in parallel with the EU’s public diplomacy efforts to promote freedom of expression and the plurality of the media. On the financial side, the EU provides support to a large number of civil society organisations, inter alia , via the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR). Projects supported by the EU aim at i.a.: increasing the professional capacities of journalists; providing urgent protection needs; promoting freedom of expression in law and in practice.