as a plant protection product. For the purpose of this Regulation, an active substance which fulfils the criteria of a 'foodstuff' as defined in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 shall be considered as a basic substance. 2. ▐A basic substance shall be approved in accordance with Article 4 and where any relevant evaluations carried out in accordance with other Community legislation, regulating the use of that substance for purposes other than as a plant protection product, show that the substance has neither an immediate or delayed harmful effect on human or animal health nor an unacceptable effect on the environment, provided that each point of the data requirements for active substances contained in plant protection products is given and the same decision-making procedures apply. 3. An application for the approval of a basic substance shall be submitted by any interested party or by a Member State to the Commission. The application shall be accompanied by the following information: a) any evaluations carried out in accordance with other Community legislation regulating the use of the substance; or b) information indicating that the substance has neither an immediate or delayed harmful effect on human or animal health nor an unacceptable effect on the environment. 4. The Commission may ask the Authority for an opinion, or for scientific or technical assistance. The Authority shall provide its opinion or the results of its work to the Commission within 3 months of the request. 5. Articles 7 and 14 shall apply. 6. The Commission may review the approval of a basic substance at any time. Where it considers that there are indications that the substance no longer satisfies the criteria provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 it shall inform the Member States, the Authority and the interested party, setting a time period for their comments to be submitted. The Commission shall ask the Authority for an opinion, or for scientific or technical assistance. The Authority shall provide its opinion or the results of its work to the Commission within 3 months of the request. Where the Commission concludes that the criteria referred to in paragraph 1 are no longer satisfied, a Regulation to withdraw or amend the approval shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83 (3). Article 21 (2) shall apply. Article 25 Approval criteria for candidates for substitution 1. By way of derogation from Article 6 and Article 15 (2), an active substance complying with the criteria provided for in Article 4 shall be approved once for a period not exceeding five years , where other already approved active substances or alternative agricultural methods or practices are significantly less toxic for consumers or operators or present significantly fewer risks for the environment. The assessment shall take account of the criteria laid down in point 4 of Annex I . Such a substance is referred to hereinafter as a "candidate for substitution". 2. Article 4(4) and Articles 7 to 22 shall apply. SECTION 2 Safeners and synergists Article 26 Approval of safeners and synergists 1. A safener