{ "context": [ [ "List of Real Madrid C.F. records and statistics", [ "Real Madrid C.F. is a Spanish professional association football club based in Madrid.", " The club was formed in 1902 as \"Madrid Football 'Club\", and played its first competitive match on May 13, 1902, when it entered the semi-final of the Campeonato de Copa de S.M. Alfonso XIII.", " Real Madrid currently plays in the Spanish La Liga.", " Real Madrid was one of the founding members of La Liga in 1929, and is one of three clubs, including FC Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, never to have been relegated from the league.", " They have also been involved in European football ever since they became the first Spanish club to enter the European Cup in 1955, except for the 1977–78 and 1996–97 seasons." ] ], [ "Madrid autonomous football team", [ "The Madrid autonomous football team is the regional football team for the Community of Madrid, Spain.", " They are not affiliated with FIFA or UEFA, because the Community of Madrid is represented internationally by the Spanish national football team.", " The team only plays friendly matches." ] ], [ "List of Real Madrid C.F. players", [ "Real Madrid C.F. is a professional association football club based in Madrid, Spain, that plays in La Liga.", " The club was formed in 1902 as Madrid Football Club, and played its first competitive match on 13 May 1902, when it entered the semi-final of the Campeonato de Copa de S.M. Alfonso XIII.", " Real Madrid was one of the founding members of La Liga in 1929, and is one of three clubs, including FC Barcelona and Athletic Bilbao, to have never been relegated from the league.", " Since then, the club's first team has competed in numerous nationally and internationally organised competitions.", " Real is the most successful club in Spanish football, having won a total of 64 domestic titles; a record 33 La Liga titles, 19 Spanish Cups, 10 Spanish Super Cups, 1 Copa Eva Duarte and 1 League Cup.", " Real is the most successful club in European football, having won twenty one official UEFA trophies in total." ] ], [ "Real Madrid C", [ "Real Madrid Club de Fútbol C, commonly known as Real Madrid C, was a Spanish association football team that played in the Tercera División – Group 7.", " It was Real Madrid's second reserve team.", " They played their home games at La Ciudad del Real Madrid in Valdebebas outside the city of Madrid.", " At the end of the 2014–15 Tercera Division, Real Madrid C was disbanded." ] ], [ "Rayo Vallecano", [ "Rayo Vallecano de Madrid, S.A.D. (] ), often abbreviated to Rayo, is a Spanish football team based in Madrid, in the neighbourhood of Vallecas.", " Founded on 29 May 1924, the club currently plays in Segunda División, Spain's second tier division.", " Home games are held at the 14,708-seater Campo de Fútbol de Vallecas stadium." ] ], [ "Antonio Rodríguez Martínez", [ "Antonio Rodríguez Martínez (born 17 December 1979), known