8 May 2002 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Philippe Morillon and Ilkka Suominen on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on small-scale nuclear arms European Parliament resolution on small-scale nuclear arms The European Parliament, – having heard of the existence of a classified Nuclear Posture Review Report submitted to the U.S. Congress on December 31 2001, which lays out the direction for American nuclear forces over the next five to ten years and shifts the planning for America’s strategic forces from the threat-based approach of the Cold War to a capabilities-based approach in the new security environment of the 21st century, A. whereas, with the war on terrorism as the main focus of the current U.S. strategic doctrine, military planners in the Pentagon have undertaken a thorough rethinking of how and when nuclear weapons might be used in a war against a range of adversaries which might be tempted to use chemical, biological or nuclear weapons, B. whereas the conclusions of this rethinking could represent a dramatic change in U.S. nuclear policy in so far as it could call for the development of smaller and more accurate nuclear weapons with special capabilities, for example for destroying underground bunkers thought to harbour dangerous weapons programmes, which could be integrated with, rather than treated in isolation from, other military capabilities, C. noting further that the study seems to indicate that the United States has broadened the circumstances under which it might be prepared to use nuclear weapons in a war and, in particular, that the United States might use nuclear strikes pre-emptively against countries developing weapons of mass destruction, and could also do so in the event of large-scale conventional attacks, D. noting that this new doctrine would overturn a U.S. policy dating back to 1978 in which the United States first stated publicly that it would not use a nuclear strike against any state that did not have its own nuclear weapons unless that state attacked the U.S. in alliance with a nuclear-weapon-armed state, a reassurance given precisely in order to persuade the maximum number of countries to sign the Non-Proliferation Treaty, 1. Takes the view that if the existence of the Nuclear Posture Review is confirmed it would be dangerously provocative in that it would take away the previous safe haven offered to states that refrained from building their own nuclear weapons, thereby encouraging these states to develop similar capabilities, thus undermining the Non-Proliferation Treaty and triggering off a new arms race; 2. Is alarmed by indications that a return to nuclear testing may be necessary in order to develop new types of devices, such as ‘earth-penetrating’ nuclear weapons; 3. Calls for an urgent clarification of the strategic thinking of all nuclear powers aimed at discouraging rather than encouraging the proliferation of nuclear weapons, bearing in mind that the possession of awesome power brings with it an awesome responsibility to exercise restraint; 4. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Parliaments