and agronomic viability; calls for the CAP to include targets for the use of sustainable energy; 97. Stresses that the CAP post-2013 is expected to enhance the above contribution; recognises that agriculture has already substantially reduced its emissions through improved production efficiency; notes, however, that, in the long run, the emission-reduction potential of agriculture is substantial (by 2050 the agricultural sector will be able to reduce non-CO 2 emissions by between 42 % and 49 % compared to 1990 levels), but could be considered rather limited compared to other sectors; stresses that all the countries that are the main emitters must make an appropriate contribution; 98. Calls for the 30 % greening component of the CAP direct payments to operate as an EU-wide incentive scheme targeted on enhancing nutrient, energy and carbon efficiency by focusing on increasing carbon soil sequestration, reducing GHG emissions, and improving nutrient management, thus making EU agriculture both more competitive and more sustainable; 99. Calls for the necessary measures, including research funding, education efforts, investment aid and other incentive-based initiatives, to be implemented under the CAP in order to support and enable the use of agricultural and forestry residue in the production of sustainable energy; 100. Recalls that improved agricultural and forestry practices should increase the sector’s capacity to preserve and sequester carbon in soils and forests; stresses at the same time that most forest owners are also farmers; stresses, furthermore, the EU’s goal of curbing the deforestation occurring worldwide, in particular in developing countries, and of halting global forest cover loss by 2030 at the latest; 101. Emphasises the importance of developing suitable measures and/or mechanisms that enable real financial recognition of the role played by agriculture and forestry in conserving carbon; 102. Stresses that sustainable use of forests contributes to reducing CO 2 emissions, and that it is therefore necessary to take measures under the second agricultural policy pillar to enable forests to be managed even in difficult locations; 103. Stresses that special attention has to be paid to afforestation, as the only natural means of increasing the carbon sink and sources of wood for bioenergy; 104. Calls for specific targets for EU land use, land use change and forestry (LULUCF), ensuring the permanence and environmental integrity of the sector’s contribution to emissions reduction, as well as accurate monitoring and accounting; 105. Considers that long-term competitiveness can only be achieved by having healthy, biologically diverse agro-ecosystems that are climate-resilient and by taking due care of limited and finite natural resources, such as soil, water and land; 106. Stresses that protecting, valuing and restoring biodiversity and ecosystem services is key in order to achieve a low-carbon economy; 107. Stresses that the Commission should emphasise climate mainstreaming in order to create coherence between policies including industry, research, energy, biodiversity, trade, development, agriculture, innovation, transport, animal welfare and the Europe 2020 strategy; believes that sound strategic management of the agricultural sector’s potential would put Europe well on its way to becoming a competitive player in tomorrow’s low-carbon global economy; 108. Stresses that the food chain should be shorter and