and Commission. Council common position Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 7 (7) European Technology Platforms (ETPs) and the envisaged Joint Technology Initiatives (JTIs) are particularly relevant for industrial research. ETPs help the stakeholders establish long-term strategic research agendas and can further evolve to represent an important mechanism for fostering European competitiveness. (7) European Technology Platforms (ETPs) and the envisaged Joint Technology Initiatives (JTIs) are particularly relevant for industrial research. In this context, SMEs should be actively involved in their operation. ETPs help the stakeholders establish long-term strategic research agendas and can further evolve to represent an important mechanism for fostering European competitiveness. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 2 Recital 15 (15) Under the "Ideas" programme, activities should be implemented by a European Research Council ("ERC"), which should enjoy a high degree of autonomy to develop very high‑level frontier research at European level, building on excellence in Europe and raising its profile at international level. The ERC should maintain regular contact with the scientific community and European Institutions. (15) Under the "Ideas" programme, activities should be implemented by a European Research Council ("ERC"), which should enjoy a high degree of autonomy to develop very high‑level frontier research at European level, building on excellence in Europe and raising its profile at international level. The ERC should maintain regular contact with the scientific community and European Institutions. As regards the ERC structures, the mid term review of the Seventh Framework Programme may show the need for further improvements necessitating appropriate amendments. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 3 Recital 20 (20) The Seventh Framework Programme complements the activities carried out in the Member States as well as other Community actions that are necessary for the overall strategic effort to achieve the Lisbon goals, alongside in particular those under the structural funds and those relating to agriculture, education, training, competitiveness and innovation, industry, employment and environment. (20) The Seventh Framework Programme complements the activities carried out in the Member States as well as other Community actions that are necessary for the overall strategic effort to achieve the Lisbon goals, alongside in particular those under the structural funds and those relating to agriculture, fisheries , education, training, competitiveness and innovation, industry, employment and environment. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 4 Recital 22 (22) The Seventh Framework Programme should aim, in particular, to secure the appropriate involvement of SMEs. Innovation and SME-related activities supported under this Framework Programme should be complementary to those undertaken under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme. (22) The Seventh Framework Programme should aim, in particular, to secure the appropriate involvement of SMEs through concrete measures and specific actions for their benefit . Innovation and SME-related activities supported under this Framework Programme should be complementary to those undertaken under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 5 Recital 23 (23) Participation in the activities