the budgetary implications of the financing of the Agency for the expenditure heading concerned. On the basis of the information and without prejudice to the relevant legislative procedure, the two arms of the budgetary authority need to achieve, in the framework of budgetary cooperation, a timely agreement on the financing of the Agency. The Union budgetary procedure is applicable to the Union contribution charged to the general budget of the European Union. In addition, auditing of accounts are to be undertaken by the European Court of Auditors in accordance with Title VIII of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002. ( 19b ) The Agency should apply the relevant Union legislation concerning public access to documents and the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. It should also comply with the security principles applicable to the Council and the Commission services. (19c) It should be possible for third countries to participate in the Agency, provided they have concluded a prior agreement to this effect with the Union, particularly when these countries have been involved in the previous phases of the programme through their contribution to the Galileosat programme of the ESA. (19d) Since the objectives of this Regulation, namely to establish and ensure the functioning of an agency with, in particular, responsibility for security accreditation of the European GNSS systems, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore by reason of the scale and effects of the action, be better achieved at Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the principle of proportionality as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives. (19e) Regulation (EC) No 863/2008 should be amended accordingly. (20) Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 has previously been amended ▌. Considering the amendments that are now being introduced, it is appropriate, for the sake of clarity, to repeal that Regulation and replace it with a new Regulation . HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Chapter 1 Subject, tasks, bodies Article 1 Subject matter This Regulation sets up a Union agency called the European GNSS Agency (hereinafter "the Agency"). Article 2 Tasks The tasks of the Agency shall be as set out in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008. Article 3 Bodies The bodies of the Agency shall be the Administrative Board, the Security Accreditation Board for European GNSS systems and the Executive Director. They shall accomplish their tasks in accordance with the guidelines given by the Commission as set out in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008. Article 4 Legal status, local offices 1. The Agency shall be a body of the Union. It shall have legal personality. 2. In each of the Member States, the Agency shall enjoy the most extensive legal capacity accorded to legal persons under their law. It may, in particular, acquire or dispose of movable and immovable property and be a party to legal proceedings. 3. The