be used for that purpose, especially under headings 1A, 3B and 4. The rapporteur wishes to point out that the amounts entered into the PDB for multi-annual programmes remain indicative until the legislative authority has completed the procedures. Therefore, the resulting margins of the various headings could be significantly modified after completion of the legislative procedures. 11. The Globalisation Fund (art. 28) is a new instrument through which up to EUR 500 m can be allocated per year (current prices) through appropriations existing under the global expenditure ceiling of the previous year and/ or from cancelled appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to heading 1B. It will have a direct impact on the 2007 Budget concerning the use of the margin left available once the Budget is adopted and for the mobilisation of the Fund in the context of the budgetary procedure. Concerning the margins available, the rapporteur considers that it will likely only be found within agriculture expenditure, i.e. heading 1A until 2006 and heading 2 from 2007 onwards. 12. There are new procedures enhancing transparency and sound financial management in the area of CFSP (art. 42 and 43 of the IIA), the financing of the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (declaration N° 13), as well as improving the follow-up of financial programming (art. 46). A close follow-up of financial programming will be ensured over the annual procedure and conclusions could be drawn at budgetary level if necessary. 13. According to the IIA, during the budgetary procedure, the Commission should report to the budgetary authority on activities financed by the EIB/ EIF and the EBRD to support investment in Research and Development, TENs and SMEs; Rapporteur's general comments 14. The rapporteur wishes to recall, as set out in Working Document 2 (para 8) and endorsed by the plenary ( A6-0154/2006 ) on 18 May 2006, that the debate on B2007 should focus on three strands: setting of policy priorities in external and internal policies; ensuring qualitative value for money accompanied by cost-benefit studies; and preparing for the review in 2008/2009. 15. A better matching between the legislative programme and the EU budget for 2007 will also be a priority for the rapporteur, who is in favour of clarifying and linking the procedures for setting egislative and budgetary priorities .Cost-benefit analysis should play an integral part in this better-synchronised process and facilitate effective spending on real policy priorities. The rapporteur is further determined to use all of the possibilities offered by the annual budgetary procedure and by the new IIA to prepare for the 2008-2009 mid-term review. 16. On the overall figures, the rapporteur notes that, according to the provisions laid down by the IIA (article 16), the annual technical adjustment is fixed for the whole period on a deflator rate of 2% a year. The Commission has annexed to the PDB a presentation of the new MFF at current prices. In line with the ceilings fixed by the MFF, the profile of EU expenditure is set to increase in a consistent manner across the MFF for commitments.