into account both the quality of school tuition and teacher training in this field; 23. Notes that, in addition to educational and education-policy considerations, technical equipment and access to new technologies are also of vital importance, and maintains that school facilities need to be substantially improved so as to enable all schoolchildren to have access to computers, the Internet, and the necessary instruction; 24. Maintains that media education is a matter of particular importance in special schools, given that, when people have disabilities, the media can often do a great deal to overcome obstacles to communication; 25. Recommends that compulsory media education modules be incorporated into teacher training for all school levels, so as to enable the subject to be taught intensively; calls on the relevant national authorities to familiarise teachers of all subjects and at every type of school with the use of audiovisual teaching aids and with the problems associated with media education; 26. Emphasises the need for regular exchange of information, good practices and, in the field of education, pedagogical methods between Member States; 27. Calls on the Commission to devote a specific section of the successor to the MEDIA 2007 programme to promoting media literacy, as the current programme contributes little to the promotion of media literacy; supports the Commission's proposal to develop a new programme called "Media Mundus" to support international cooperation in the audiovisual sector; calls for media literacy to feature more prominently in other EU support programmes, especially Lifelong Learning, eTwinning, Safer Internet and the European Social Fund; Media education for older people 28. Maintains that media work with older people has to be done at the places where they are to be found, such as societies, old people's and nursing homes, assisted living facilities, recreational and enthusiasts" clubs, action committees, or senior citizens" groups; 29. Notes that digital networks enable older people in particular to share in everyday life by communicating and to remain independent for as long as possible; 30. Points out that the different kinds of environment in which older people live and their varied spheres of experience, as well as the way they use the media themselves, must be taken into account in media education aimed at them; o o o 31. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States.