2000 form an over-arching set of objectives for the multilateral development policy. The MDGs are: (a) Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger (b) Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education (c) Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women (d) Goal 4: Reduce child mortality (e) Goal 5: Improve maternal health (f) Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases (g) Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability (h) Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development What are the objectives of EC development assistance? 3. Article 177 of the Treaty of the European Community (EC) sets three objectives for EC development policy: · the sustainable economic and social development of the developing countries, and more particularly the most disadvantaged among them; · the smooth and gradual integration of the developing countries into the world economy; · and the campaign against poverty in the developing countries. The EU has also signed up to the above-mentioned MDGs on a number of occasions. What funds are available for EC development assistance? 4. The EU as a whole – Community and Member States – provides more than half of all global official development assistance: over €34.5 billion in 2004, representing 0.36% of GNI. One-fifth of the EU’s current aid budget – €6.9 billion in 2004 – is managed by the European Commission on behalf of the Community. This includes the European Development Fund (EDF), which accounted for outside of the Community Budget. The 9th EDF provides EUR 13.5 billion for African, Caribbean and Pacific partner countries. The geographical span of the Community’s assistance programmes is global, from the EU’s immediate neighbours to developing countries in all regions of the world. How is EC development spending distributed geographically? 5. It is not straightforward to measure precisely how much development assistance is provided per geographical region, but an approximate breakdown is provided for in the Commission's Annual Report 2005 on "The European Community's development policy and the implementation of external assistance in 2004". This report states that in 2004, on the basis of budget payments, the breakdown was as follows: Region Payments (EUR million) Share of payments ACP 2464 40% Mediterranean 1125 18% "Thematic" 797 13% Asia 526 8% The Balkans 510 8% Newly-independent States 359 6% Latin America 314 5% South Africa 116 2% Total 6211 100% 6. Payment levels have trended closer to commitment levels in recent years for specific programmes as a result of a programme of "deconcentrating" the way in which EC development aid is disbursed, by giving a greater role to EC Delegations in third countries. Of course, payments that are closer to commitment ceilings leaves less scope for re-distributing funds between regions and programmes. 7. The third row in the table is allocated to "thematic" spending. This clearly does not refer to any specific geographical region, but rather to development assistance spent on thematic programmes that focus on cross-cutting issues such as human rights, preservation of natural resources and good governance. Aid for Trade - the EUR 1 billion pledge 8. In the context of the 2005 G8 Summit, European Commission President Barroso