Group (EMAG) with main responsibility for non-UK based policyholders, informed the committee that he too received letters from German policyholders who complained of a lack of financial reports in their language. In WE 21-CONF it is confirmed that documents relating to the Annual General Meeting as well as reports and accounts are now issued in English " as the translations of documents was causing some delay ". When asked whether he believes that such practice is in accordance with the Third Life Directive Mr THOMSON responded in H8 that " as I understand it, it does not breach our requirements ". He stressed furthermore that " where statements need to be provided in the appropriate language, then we comply with the requirements " (H8). " All policy related correspondence including annual statements, servicing enquiries and complaints are dealt with in German " (WE-CONF 21). The requirement to communicate information to the policyholder in the language of the Member State of the commitment, laid down in Annex III of the consolidated Life Directive (see point 3. a.) below), indeed relates only to the information listed in the Annex, which does not include the documentation referred to by Mr WEYER and Mr SEYMOUR. Written and oral evidence received by the committee from Irish and German policyholders suggests that they have faced particular difficulties in their efforts to obtain redress. 3. Access to redress in the Member State of commitment Since most of the aggrieved non-UK policyholders first turned to their respective national authorities, this section begins by briefly outlining the responsibilities of host Member States in terms of consumer protection as laid down in the Third Life Directive. Subsequently, the roles played, and actions undertaken, by Irish and German regulatory authorities in relation to Equitable Life are explored with particular reference to providing assistance to aggrieved policyholders. Finally, the question whether or not non-UK policyholders have (or had) access to redress through Ombudsman schemes or guarantee funds in their respective home countries is addressed. a.) Supervisory authorities in the Member State of commitment Role and powers of host Member State authorities under the 3rd Life Directive (3LD) In WE 41, the Commission outlines the division of powers and responsibilities between authorities of home and host Member States under the 3LD. Thus, according to Article 10(2) of the Directive, " the financial supervision of an insurance undertaking, including that of the business it carries on either through branches or under the freedom to provide services shall be the sole responsibility of the home Member Sates ." On the other hand, the host Member State retains powers for supervising the conduct of business on its territory. Firstly, Article 32 of the 3LD lays down the basic rule that the law applicable to Life assurance contracts must, in general, be that of the country of commitment, i.e. the country where the policyholder has his/her habitual residence in order to ensure that the contract is governed by law with which the policyholder is familiar. Furthermore, " when a Community insurer establishes a branch in, or provides services into,