Efficiency; 65. Notes that the high-tech sector can play a crucial role in raising consumer awareness and increasing the willingness of consumers to contribute to energy efficiency by offering products that are both energy-efficient and of an improved standard; 66. Considers that energy service contracts between energy suppliers and consumers are an effective means of increasing the efficiency of heating and cooling installations; calls on the Commission to remove the administrative and legal barriers to the conclusion of such contracts; Cities 67. Recognises the importance of exchanging and promoting best urban practices in relation to energy efficiency; suggests that the existing Eurocities forum could be an effective vehicle for doing this; 68. Urges the Commission and the other EU institutions to work together with the big cities in the EU, favouring budgets for twinning and the exchange of good practices between the major cities; 69. Welcomes the Covenant of Mayors initiative, bringing together in a permanent network the mayors of 20 to 30 of Europe's largest and most pioneering cities, and calls for further details regarding its establishment; emphasises, however, that the Covenant of Mayors must complement the activities of similar networks which already exist; The global dimension 70. Supports the Commission in its proposal to set up the Platform for International Cooperation on Energy Efficiency; calls on the Member States and the Commission to enhance international cooperation in the energy-efficiency field so as to ensure that new regulations and standards do not fragment the global market; calls for these international – bilateral and multilateral – agreements to embrace not only a shared commitment to minimum energy-efficiency performance standards but also the sharing of energy-efficiency technology; notes the strategic imperative of technology diffusion, which requires a public-interest approach to intellectual property rights; 71. Acknowledges the ongoing work at technical level on shared energy-efficiency standards, particularly with China; is concerned that this work is undermined by the lack of coordination between Member States, giving rise to confusion in third countries; calls for an integrated approach with regard to standards; 72. Notes the widespread concern that Russia will not be able to meet its domestic and contractual gas demand, and urges the Commission, in the interests of energy security, to commit greater resources to the EU-Russia Energy Efficiency Dialogue, with particular attention being paid to the upgrading of Russian district heating networks and to the utilisation of gas currently flared on oil fields; 73. Welcomes the Council initiative for an Africa-EU Energy Partnership, and calls for this partnership to prioritise energy-efficient and sustainable growth in Africa; ° ° ° 74. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the parliaments and governments of the Member States.