of Action) and, in the long term, should support and coordinate necessary actions in the current and, above all, new Member States. That includes not only government-assisted programmes and projects, but also the many networks of non-governmental organisations which play an important role in both the conservation and better use of genetic diversity within sustainable agriculture. The rapporteur strongly supports the Commission's intention to use the Community programme as an extension of, and complement to, Regulation 1257/1999 on rural development. The emphasis is on 'conservation through utilisation', with a view to production diversification, food quality improvement and regional specialities, including (in particular) in situ/in farm measures supporting farmers in preserving their traditional varieties and breeds and bringing products derived from them to local and regional markets. The preservation and further development of varieties and breeds which are particularly worth conserving also ought to be promoted, however, e.g. for organic farming, protection against erosion and landscape conservation, etc. Attention should be drawn in particular to the implementing regulations the Commission has given advance notice of, but has not yet submitted, for amended Regulations 53-57/2002 and 401-403/1966 on the marketing of seed which have an impact on access to what are termed 'conservation varieties' and 'amateur varieties'. This special designation for and marketing of varieties which do not fulfil the relevant criteria for certified varieties, i.e. may not be marketed at present and, potentially, may cease to be produced or reproduced, is a matter regulated at Parliament's initiative. The implementing regulations for these directives, which were amended in 1996, have been in preparation since November 2002, but have still not been submitted to Parliament. The Community programme to be adopted is of particular importance in view of the negotiations the Community is engaged in within the WTO on protecting geographical indications of origin and non-trade-distorting government support within agriculture. The programme will be a major factor in making European agriculture multifunctional: it will promote production diversification and sustainability instead of intensification and increased production. On the basis of Member State and Parliament estimates of what is needed, the financial framework proposed by the Commission for the remaining years appears to the rapporteur to have been set at too low a level. Since the Commission intends to fund the Community programme under internal policies, however, Parliament and the Council will be able to make a correction after 2004. No work programme for the Community programme has yet been submitted to Parliament. Since virtually all the proposals by Member States and by Parliament ( A5-0252/2002 ) have been incorporated into the new Commission proposal for a regulation on the conservation, characterisation, collection and utilisation of genetic resources in agriculture, however, the rapporteur sees no reason to table amendments again and therefore proposes that Parliament approve this proposal unamended.