Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (20 February 2004) The Honourable Member refers to the speech made by the President of the Commission to the Parliament on 21 July 1999, in which he mentioned the combating of doping as one example of action designed to bring the Union closer to European citizens. The Commission immediately began work on specific measures to combat doping. It has done its utmost within the limits of its powers, given that the EC Treaty does not permit harmonisation in the specific area of sport. The Commission's work has therefore been designed to promote awareness-raising, cooperation and coordination, especially through the organisation of networks and the financing of projects. The Commission has always focused on prevention — information, education and research — as opposed to a more repressive approach, which is sometimes necessary but often inadequate. At the Commission's request, an opinion on doping in sport was issued on 11 November 1999 by the European Group on Ethics. Shortly afterwards, on 1 December 1999, a Community support plan, which was given a favourable reception by Parliament, was adopted. This plan made it possible, among other things, to co-finance 16 pilot projects in 2000-2001 and 16 more in 2001-2002. The total amount of funding was EUR 7 360 212 . Of the more important projects, mention should be made of the first transnational study devoted to doping practices in body-building premises in Europe, whose publication struck a cord in many quarters. An external evaluation of the first 16 pilot projects has been carried out and sent to Parliament. The Commission has also taken an active part in the establishment of the new World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA). In the start-up phase of the agency, it defended the principles of independence and transparency. However, owing to an incompatibility between the administrative and financial rules of the Community and those of this Agency, the Commission has been unable to contribute to its operating budget. On the other hand, EUR 2 million in subsidies were granted to specific projects for combating doping, such as the establishment of an athlete's passport or the training of observers of the Agency, who are present at major sporting events. As far as progress achieved in cooperation between the various players involved in combating doping is concerned, action in this area is becoming increasingly intergovernmental. While it is true that the establishment of the World Anti-Doping Agency against the background of the 1999 Lausanne Conference was the result of excellent cooperation between the Commission, the Council and the International Olympic Committee, the fact remains that the Member States have preferred the intergovernmental approach (WADA, Council of Europe, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation). Finally, the Commission is aware of the existence of organisations that supply illegal substances to sportsmen. It has asked the Member States to join it in studying the possible ways of tackling this problem. In March 2002, the Commission organised, at La Toja (Spain), in cooperation with the Spanish Presidency, the first seminar bringing together officials of the Ministries of