mutual respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as is clearly laid down in the EU-Uzbekistan Partnership and Cooperation Agreement; 3. Points out that the policy of targeted sanctions has not produced positive results so far; considers it justified, therefore, to encourage the Uzbek authorities by lifting for six months the visa ban on Uzbek officials as set out in the annex to Common Position 2007/338/CFSP; 4. Invites the European Council to monitor and clearly evaluate after six months the effects of this measure on EU-Uzbekistan relations and possibly to draw the relevant conclusions on the basis of this evaluation; 5. Welcomes the general progress in EU-Uzbekistan relations which has taken place in the course of 2007; 6. Notes in particular the willingness shown by the Uzbek authorities to engage in dialogue with the EU by holding two rounds of experts’ talks on the Andijan events, as well as the first round of the human rights dialogue between the EU and Uzbekistan; 7. Encourages the Uzbek authorities to make further progress in the area of human rights; 8. Urges the Uzbek authorities to implement fully their international commitments to fundamental freedoms, freedom of the press and media, and the rule of law; 9. Expresses its concern at the refusal by the Ministry of Justice in Uzbekistan to recognise officially the Human Rights Watch Office, and calls on the Uzbek authorities to reconsider this decision in order to show their commitment to the development of civil society in their country; 10. Urges the Uzbek Government to release the fifteen Uzbek human rights defenders, given that the EU has made the protection of human rights defenders a central concern of its external policies, in particular through the EU Guidelines on Human Rights Defenders adopted in 2004; 11. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, the EU Special Representative for Central Asia, the Government and Parliament of Uzbekistan, and the Secretary-General of the United Nations.