technical changes of projects, or to modification of a part of the specified routing, or to limited adaptation of the location of the project. 5. Member States shall take any measures they consider necessary to facilitate and speed up the completion of projects of common interest and to minimise delays, while complying with Community law and international conventions on the environment , especially as regards projects declared to be of European interest . In particular, the necessary authorisation procedures shall be completed rapidly. 6. Where parts of projects of common interest are situated within the territory of third countries, the Commission may, in agreement with the Member States concerned, put forward proposals, where appropriate within the framework of the management of the agreements between the Community and those third countries and in accordance with the Energy Charter Treaty and other multilateral agreements with third countries which are parties to that Treaty, for the projects also to be recognised as being of mutual interest by the third countries concerned, in order to facilitate their implementation. Article 7 Priority projects 1. The projects of common interest referred to in Article 6(3) and covered by the axes for priority projects set out in Annex I shall have priority for the grant of the Community financial aid provided for under Regulation (EC) No 2236/95. Amendments to Annex I shall be decided upon in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty. 2. As regards cross-border investment projects, Member States shall take the steps required to ensure that, under national authorisation procedures, the fact that such projects increase the capacity for interconnection of two or more Member States and consequently strengthen Europe-wide security of supply is treated as a criterion for the assessment by the competent national authorities. 3 . The Member States concerned and the Commission shall endeavour, each within its own sphere of competence, together with the responsible companies, to further the carrying out of the priority projects, especially cross-border projects. 4 . Priority projects shall be compatible with sustainable development and meet the following criteria: a) they shall have a significant impact on the competitive operation of the internal market ; and/or b) they shall strengthen security of supply in the Community ; and/or c) they shall result in an increase in the use of renewable energies. Article 8 Projects of European Interest 1. A number of projects on the priority axes referred to in Article 7 which are of cross-border nature or which have significant impact on cross-border transmission capacity are declared to be of European Interest. Those projects are set out in Annex I. 2. When projects are selected under the budget for the trans-European networks in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 2236/95, appropriate priority shall be given to projects declared to be of European interest. 3. When projects are selected under other Community cofinancing funds, particular attention shall be given to projects declared to be of European interest. 4. If there is a significant current or prospective delay in the progress of a project