Answer given by Mr Barroso on behalf of the Commission (13 September 2006) Current state of affairs In October 2005 the European Commission proposed an EU common methodology for assessing administrative costs imposed by legislation See COM(2005)518 and staff working document annexed. . This methodology is based on the standard cost model (SCM). The initial SCM has many methodological qualities but has been developed for national use in rather centralised systems. Several adaptations to EU needs and resources were therefore needed. The Commission is applying this methodology in the context of its incoming impact assessments, whenever relevant. For that purpose an operational manual has been drafted and added to the Commission’s impact assessment guidelines as of March 2006. The Commission has invited the Council and the Member States to agree to this methodology. A common methodological basis is indeed needed to ensure comparability across national measurements and to allow aggregation of data at the EU level. As for the Council, it gave so far no indication that it would apply the proposed methodology when assessing the impact of its amendments. As for the Member States, the situation is also relatively unclear. In order to facilitate EU convergence, the Commission's operational manual has been translated in all official languages of the Union and sent to the Member States. Several Member States have taken this manual into account to draft their national manual. Furthermore 12 Member States are exchanging views through the ‘SCM network’ which also facilitates methodological convergence UK, Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, France, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Italy and Estonia. . However, as of July 2006, several variants of the SCM still exist. More could emerge soon, further undermining comparability and aggregation of data at EU level. Resources needed to implement an effective methodology The Commission has developed an effective methodology and is capable of applying it rigorously for of a limited number of major proposals. However it does not currently have the resources to go beyond such assessment. Assessing the cumulative burden imposed on various sectors or on the EU as whole is a costly and time consuming work. For example, the measurement of administrative burden in the United Kingdom (UK) is estimated to cost approximately EUR 23 million. The Commission indicated in 2005 that such a baseline measurement for the EU could cost EUR 100 million. The Commission will soon launch a study to measure the administrative costs caused by EU legislation in a number of key policy areas through the CIP (competitiveness and innovation framework programme). Possibility for Eurostat to assist in the assessment of administrative burden. The Commission examined the possible contribution of Eurostat during the 2005 pilot phase that led to the October communication COM(2005)518. . The Commission concluded that; Eurostat databases provide valuable information for a number of key parameters; the capacity of Eurostat to contribute depends on what Member States provide; and in a number of cases, many Member States do not provide required statistics. Even if all Member States were to provide all required statistics in good time, the cooperation of Member