Answer given by Mr Monti on behalf of the Commission (29 September 2004) The Community competition policy aims at supporting the competitive process in the internal market and inducing companies to increase their efficiency and innovative potential. The Commission has set out how it considers competition policy to complement and reinforce other Community policies contributing to the Lisbon Strategy in its ‘Communication on a pro-active Competition Policy for a competitive Europe’ of 20 April 2004 COM(2004) 293 final . In pursuing these objectives, the Commission seeks to encourage the growth of both large and small undertakings. As far as small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) are concerned, in particular, they are generally more likely to be victims of infringements of the Community competition rules than actively engage in infringements themselves. They are therefore the ‘natural’ beneficiaries of competition policy. At the same time, the Commission’s Notice on agreements of minor importance (the so-called de minimis Notice) Commission notice on agreements of minor importance which do not appreciably restrict competition under Article 81 (1) of the Treaty establishing the European Community (de minimis); OJ C 368, 22.12.2001 . See also on the same issue Commission Guidelines on the effect on trade concept contained in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty, OJ C101, 27.4.2004. states that agreements between small and medium sized enterprises are rarely capable of appreciably affecting trade between Member States. Agreements between SMEs therefore generally fall outside the scope of Article 81(1) of the EC Treaty. The reform of the rules implementing Articles 81 and 82, in particular through the adoption of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 Council Regulation (EC) 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 on the implementation of the rules on competition laid down in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty. as mentioned by the Honourable Member, is also contributing to the strengthening of undertakings operating in the European market, whether small or large. One of the key aspects of the reform is, for instance, the application by all competition authorities throughout the Union of a single rule of law whenever an agreement affects trade between Member States. This establishes a level playing field for companies active in the internal market. The reform also reduces unnecessary compliance costs for business by abolishing the system of individual notification for exemption decisions.