account of the criteria laid down in point 4 of Annex I . Such a substance is referred to hereinafter as a "candidate for substitution". 2. Article 4(4) and Articles 7 to 22 shall apply. SECTION 2 Safeners and synergists Article 26 Approval of safeners and synergists 1. A safener or synergist shall be approved, where it complies with Article 4. 2. For approval of a safener or synergist, paragraph 1 shall be deemed to be satisfied where compliance with Article 4 has been established with respect to one or more representative uses of at least one plant protection product for every different active substance the safener or synergist is combined with. 3. Articles 6 to 22 shall apply. Article 27 Safeners and synergists already on the market Not later than ... * 2 years after the entry into force of this Regulation. , a Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty establishing a programme of work for the gradual review of synergists and safeners on the market when that Regulation enters into force. The regulation shall include the establishment of data requirements , including measures to minimise animal testing , notification, evaluation, assessment and decision-making procedures. It shall require interested parties to submit all the necessary data to the Commission, the Authority and the Member States within a specified time period. SECTION 3 ║co-formulants Article 28 Approval of co-formulants 1. A co-formulant shall be approved where it has been established that: a) the co-formulant or its residues, consequent on application consistent with realistic conditions of use, do not have a harmful effect on human or animal health or on groundwater or an unacceptable effect on the environment; and b) its use, consequent on application consistent with good plant protection product practice and having regard to realistic ▐ conditions of use, does not have a harmful effect on human or animal health or an unacceptable effect on plants, plant products or the environment. 2. Co-formulants approved pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be included in Annex III in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4). 3. Where a co-formulant is used in a plant protection product authorised under this Regulation, its specific use in plant protection products shall be considered as being registered in accordance with Article 15(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1. Corrected in OJ L 136, 29.5.2007, p. 3. . CHAPTER III Plant protection products Section 1 Authorisation Subsection 1 Requirements and contents Article 29 Authorisation for placing on the market and use 1. A plant protection product shall not be placed on the market or used unless it has been authorised in the Member State concerned in accordance with this Regulation. 2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, no authorisation shall be required in the following cases: a) use of plant protection products containing exclusively one