legal basis possible is Article 171 ( The Community may set up joint undertakings or any other structure necessary for the efficient execution of Community research, technological development and demonstration programmes. ), since this is the only provision of the EC Treaty that provides for the setting up of joint undertakings for research and technological development. The fact that that provision provides only for consultation of Parliament, rather than codecision, is irrelevant. At its meeting of 20 April 2006 the Committee on Legal Affairs accordingly decided, unanimously The following were present for the vote Giuseppe Gargani (chairman), Andrzej Jan Szejna (vice-chairman), Katalin Lévai (vice-chairman), Diana Wallis (draftswoman), Maria Berger, Rosa Díez González, Adeline Hazan (for Nicola Zingaretti), Hans-Peter Mayer, Aloyzas Sakalas and Jaroslav Zvěřina. to advise you that Article 171 of the EC Treaty constitutes the appropriate legal basis. Yours sincerely, Giuseppe Gargani 20.9.2006 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORT AND TOURISM for the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on the proposal for a Council regulation on the establishment of a Joint Undertaking to develop the new generation European air traffic management system (SESAR) ( COM(2005)0602 – C6‑0002/2006 – 2005/0235(CNS) ) Draftsman(*): Philip Bradbourn (*) Enhanced cooperation between committees – Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure am SHORT JUSTIFICATION Commission proposal According to projections air traffic in Europe will more than double in the next 20 years, and even triple in some regions. The development of an adequate infrastructure for air transport has become a major challenge for Europe: The fast growth of air transport already during the last decades was not accompanied by a substantial modernisation of the air traffic control system. With the 'single European sky' legislation, adopted in 2004, the organisation of air navigation services was radically reformed: Roles and responsibilities of supervisory authorities and service providers were clearly defined and cross border blocks of airspace were established. This implies a major reorganisation of the sector. The Commission now has submitted a proposal on a new generation European air traffic management system ("SESAR") and the establishment of a Joint Undertaking. SESAR is the technological element of the single European sky. The proposal aims at developing technologies, methods of organisation and industrial components that are capable of ensuring the safety of air transport in the next 20 years. SESAR is first and foremost a research and development project and intended to integrate and coordinate research and development activities. It will allow the air traffic control equipment in the European Union to be standardised. The Commission aims to pursue this goal in the framework of a public-private partnership combining resources for a joint objective and proposes to create a Joint Undertaking (Article 171 of the EC Treaty). SESAR is planned in three phases: 1. The definition phase (2005 - 2007): In this phase the plan for the modernisation of air traffic management in Europe is to be drawn up: The technological steps are to be taken and the priorities for modernisation as well as the corresponding timetables are to be defined. This phase will require a budget of €60