President José Manuel BARROSO . At 3pm, there will be Commission and Council statements, with a resolution, on the surveillance of bank data transfers by the American secret services. Thereafter, Wednesday afternoon is dedicated to the presumed use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners . MEPs will debate the interim report which says the CIA was " directly responsible " for extraordinary rendition, " illegal seizure, removal, abduction and detention of terrorist suspects on the territory of Member States, accession and candidate countries ", all of which were violations of international law. MEPs have also criticised Member States for their inactivity or complicity regarding CIA activity. On Wednesday evening, there will be a joint debate on comitology. Richard CORBETT (PES, UK) has two reports: Comitology: exercise of implementing powers conferred to the Commission and Implementing powers conferred on the Commission, Comitology. Interinstitutional agreement. On Wednesday evening there will be a joint debate on visa policy towards the Western Balkan countries . Also on Wednesday evening, after hearing a Commission statement, MEPs will then debate the issue of "AIDS - Time to deliver." Thursday 6 July 2006 MEPs debate the issues of development and migration and fair trade development. Parliament will also vote on a report by Stephen HUGHES (PES, UK) on protecting workers against the risk of infection from contaminated needles . Every year around a million workers in Europe, mainly in the medical world, suffer injuries from used surgical needles. The consequences can be serious, including infections from HIV or hepatitis B or C. The EP Social Affairs Committee wants to improve existing EU legislation so as to give workers better protection. The session ends, as usual, with three human rights debates and resolutions on the following subjects: Somalia, Mauritania and Freedom of expression on the Internet. Significant changes to the Agenda Strasbourg July 2006 Monday, 3 July First item on Monday is a debate with resolution on the economic and social consequences of the restructuring of businesses in Europe. Alain LAMASSOURE (EPP-ED, FR) on system of own resources to be included in votes on Tuesday without debate. Karin RIIS-JØRGENSEN (ALDE, DK) on passenger car related taxes is postponed to September I. There is an additional oral question to the Commission on mergers and buyouts in European stock-exchanges. The report by Caroline LUCAS (Greens/EFA, UK) on reducing the climate change impact of aviation is brought forward to Monday evening . The two conciliation agreements (batteries and transparency) will also be debated on Monday evening. Tuesday 4 July On Tuesday at 3pm, is a debate with resolution on the economic and social consequences of the restructuring of businesses in Europe. Luis de GRANDES PASCUAL (EPP-ED, ES) on funding to do with pollution caused by ships is postponed to September I. Wednesday 5 July On Wednesday evening, there will be a joint debate on comitology. Richard CORBETT (PES, UK) has two reports: Comitology: exercise of implementing powers conferred to the Commission and Implementing powers conferred on the Commission, Comitology. Interinstitutional agreement. The report by Diana