to conflicts of law, varying prescriptive periods and other difficulties, and that this hampers or prevents access to swift and efficient resolution of the interests of all parties affected, D. whereas this is an important human and legal problem as victims continue to encounter legal and technical problems, E. whereas a public hearing was held on 18 March 2003, F. whereas this is a widespread European legal problem, 1. Welcomes the recognition among various governments that the unique problems associated with cultural goods (i.e. public or private property considered as constituting an artistic creation or cultural property) which were plundered in wartime through acts of violence, confiscation or by apparently legal transactions or auctions need to be addressed; 2. Recognises that, although the problem of these goods is a matter of public knowledge, it has often proved remarkably difficult for private claimants to recover their property and to clarify their provenance; 3. Welcomes the efforts being made by third countries (especially the United States of America and the Russian Federation) to take parallel or reciprocal action; 4. Calls on the European Commission, with due regard for Article 295 of the EC Treaty , to undertake a study by the end of 2004 on: – establishing a common cataloguing system, to be used by both public entities and private collections of art to gather together data on the situation of looted cultural goods and the exact status of existing claims; – developing common principles regarding access to public or private archives containing information on property identification and location and tying together existing databases of information about title to disputed properties; – identifying common principles on how ownership or title is established, prescription, standards of proof, rights to export or import property which has been recovered; – exploring possible dispute resolution mechanisms that avoid lengthy and uncertain judicial procedures and take into account principles of fairness and equity; – the value of creating a cross-border coordination administrative authority to deal with disputes on title of cultural goods; 5. Calls on the Member States and applicant States to make all necessary efforts to adopt measures to ensure the creation of mechanisms which favour the return of the property referred to in this resolution and to be mindful that the return of art objects looted as part of crime against humanity to rightful claimants is a matter of general interest for the purposes of Article 1 of Protocol 1 to the European Convention of Human Rights; 6. Calls on the Presidency of the European Union to assign this issue to a working group of the Council; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Member States, accession States and the Council of Europe. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Background: the Nature of the Problem Various aspects of the problem of property looted during World War II have been the subject of international agreements. One issue remains outstanding: the problem of cultural goods whose ownership is likely to be contested. The problem of looted cultural goods (i.e. public or private property considered as constituting