had been opened with Member States with regards to the 3LD. This list states that " proceedings for incorrect application were launched against a number of Member States, including the UK , with regard to specific aspects of their national measures. In the case of the UK , for example, the problem related to the exchange of statistical information between supervisors. " WE 19 clarifies that " all these cases have now been closed " and that "none of them appear to relate to the core prudential requirements of the directive. " 4. Absence of complaints to the Commission before 2001 - The Commission cannot act against alleged past infringements that have been corrected Mr. TERTAK, under questioning, clarified that when facts are not brought to the Commission's attention in due time, formally they do not exist. This applies to the ELAS case, where, at the time, no-one notified the Commission. However, it should be borne in mind that the Commission can obtain information in other ways. On the issue of correspondence on ELAS in the Commission's possession, Mr TERTAK claims in H1 that " the earliest correspondence that appears on the Commission's files dates from early 2001, with letters from Mr James Elles MEP and Mr Roy Perry MEP. Mr Perry wrote again to Commissioner Bolkestein in July 2001 following the collapse of the Independent Insurance Company and following Equitable Life's decision to cut pension policy values by 16%. Mr Perry asked the Commission whether it was satisfied that the European directives had been adhered to in these matters. " Mr. TERTAK then went on to say that the Commission will continue to search in its historical archives for exchanges prior to that date. Commissioner McCREEVY, in H8, reiterates these facts: "The Commission did not become aware of the problems of Equitable Life until early 2001, when Members of this Parliament began to contact us on behalf of their constituents who were Equitable policyholders. We have provided you with a full list of all our documents on Equitable Life. The UK authorities reacted quickly following the Society’s crisis and closure to new business. On the basis of the Baird Report and the Tiner Reforms, the United Kingdom has radically changed its rules on life assurance in general, on with-profits policies in particular, on mutuals and on the role of the actuary. I think one can safely say that the regime that applied prior to the crisis at Equitable Life no longer exists." With regard to the issue of Commission involvement, Clive MAXWELL in H4 states that on the issue of "the involvement of the Commission in the follow-up to Equitable Life, I have no details in front of me of any involvement of the European Commission in taking up individual cases". On a related point, the Commission insisted that it could not express an opinion or investigate infringements that have been remedied by the Member State concerned. This was due to the nature of infringement proceedings, whose objective was merely to ensure compliance with EU law. Victims of past infringements could