of arms exports, other military and security equipment, licensed production and arms brokering should be subject to more effective controls, L. whereas, specifically in the context of the development of a European armaments industry and a common security and defence policy, there needs to be greater harmonisation of EU arms export control policy, M. whereas its above-mentioned resolution of 20 November 2003 emphasises that the internal opening-up of military markets should be accompanied by stringent export controls at the external borders of the EU, N. whereas the EU's share of the international arms trade in general and of exports of small and light weapons in particular has increased with the accession of ten new Member States on 1 May 2004, some of which have significant arms production and exporting activities; whereas some of the new Member States still lack sufficient capacity to meet the existing obligations of the Code immediately and would therefore need assistance to implement them, O. whereas approximately 80 percent of EU arms exports between 1999 and 2003 went to countries outside Europe, P. whereas the adoption of the Code of Conduct by the ten new Member States has increased the number of arms exports subject to the Code of Conduct, Q. whereas, in the context of the further enlargement of the EU, it is particularly important that the candidate countries Croatia, Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey also prepare annual reports on their arms export policy, improve controls on their arms exports and ensure that fundamental standards relating thereto are observed; convinced that the Member States should not only actively support this process, but should also set a positive example with regard to strict observance of the Code of Conduct and production of comprehensive Annual Reports on their arms exporting activities, R. convinced that further harmonisation of Member States’ arms export policy would represent an important contribution to the development of the ESDP and would also contribute to a strengthened common foreign policy approach by the Member States, S. convinced that the EU’s arms export control policy must be such as to ensure coherence in terms of the Community’s external policy action, including its goals in the areas of crisis prevention, combating of poverty, strengthening of democracy and promotion of human rights, T. convinced that only an international arms trade regime centring on an international Arms Trade Treaty based on States’ existing responsibilities under international law would be truly effective within a global context, 1. Considers that, in the fight against international terrorism and in the interest of conflict prevention and regional stabilisation and respect for human rights, a clear and efficient common arms export control policy is very decisive; 2. Welcomes, therefore, the progress referred to in the Fifth Annual Report on the implementation of the Code of Conduct, and in particular the continuation of the compendium of Member States’ agreed practices published in Annex I and the table in Annex II containing data on the number and value of export licences issued and the value of arms exports; 3. Welcomes in particular the improvements in the information provided