Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (17 June 2010) A lot is at stake for biodiversity policy this year and 2010 gives the European Union the chance to demonstrate its will and ability to take a leadership role in global environmental policy. The Commission welcomes the commitment of the Belgian EU Presidency to pay particular importance to biodiversity issues. On 15 March 2010, the Environment Council agreed on a new vision and target for biodiversity, reflecting the most ambitious option (option 4) set out in the Commission Communication ‘Options for an EU vision and target for biodiversity beyond 2010’ adopted in January 2010 COM(2010)4 final. . The Spring European Council subsequently endorsed the 2050 vision and 2020 target on 26 March 2010, noting that ‘There is an urgent need to reverse continuing trends of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation. The European Council is committed to the long term biodiversity 2050 vision and the 2020 target set out in the Council's conclusions of 15 March 2010’. The recently adopted 2020 EU biodiversity target requires ‘Halting the loss of biodiversity and the degradation of ecosystem services in the EU by 2020, and restoring them in so far as feasible, while stepping up the EU contribution to averting global biodiversity loss.’ To deliver on this biodiversity target a new EU strategy, accompanied by an impact assessment, which will apply to terrestrial (including below-ground) and marine biodiversity, is to be developed as soon as possible after the 10th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in October 2010. The Council has provided some guidance as to what this strategy should include. It has called on the Commission, among other issues, to: — set a limited number of ambitious, realistic, achievable and measurable sub-targets for different ecosystems, driving forces, pressures and responses; — ensure their integration into relevant internal and external EU sectoral policies; — promote the use of best practices and the use of flexible approaches in line with existing legislation; — set a clear baseline outlining the criteria against which achievements are to be assessed; — strengthen the evaluation tools and indicators; — ensure coherence with the results of the CBD and international negotiations on a global target and framework for tackling biodiversity loss in setting EU action; — identify the necessary, feasible and cost-effective measures and actions for the sub-targets. As groundwork for such Strategy, the Commission is preparing the 2010 progress report for the EU Biodiversity Action Plan adopted in 2006 COM(2006)216 final. and setting the EU biodiversity baseline. As announced COM(2010)4 final. , the Commission will continue working on the development of the green infrastructure concept ‘Green infrastructure’ is an interconnected network of natural areas, including agricultural land, greenways, wetlands, parks, forest reserves, native plant communities and marine areas that naturally regulate storm flows, temperatures, flood risk and water, air and ecosystem quality. towards the adoption of a strategy on green infrastructure, on a strategy on how to combat invasive species, on financing of nature and biodiversity and the Natura 2000 network. Additionally, it