it is an independent government department that investigates and prosecutes serious or complex fraud. It is part of the UK criminal justice system. The Office is headed by the Director who is appointed by, and accountable to, the Attorney General. The key criterion it uses when deciding whether to accept a case is that the suspected fraud appears to be so serious or complex that its investigation should be carried out by those responsible for its prosecution. Other factors include the value of the alleged fraud, whether there is a significant international dimension, whether the case is likely to be of widespread public concern and whether it requires highly specialised knowledge, e.g. of financial markets. Mr CHASE GREY states that the SFO informed him that the allegations he had put forward would be considered in the light of the then ongoing civil action by ELAS against its former directors and auditors. According to him, the civil actions by ELAS " had almost certainly been commenced as a deliberate delaying tactic [and] to conceal the truth behind the ELAS collapse " (WE 9 Pages 3 and 4. ). Furthermore, Mr CHASE GREY claims to have been informed by Mr WEIR that, despite repeated requests by Mr WEIR, the SFO has failed to acknowledge formally the receipt of a report The report referred to has also been registered by the Committee as WE 7: Equitable Life: Penrose and beyond - anatomy of a fraud. A paper by Dr Michael Nassim; 30 December 2004. , which represents the most comprehensive account of the alleged fraud, according to Mr CHASE GREY, and which had apparently been submitted to the SFO by Mr WEIR (WE 9 Page 4. ). The SFO later decided not to investigate the case. Mr MAXWELL (H4) quoted from a press release, which the SFO issued on 19 December 2005: " Following careful consideration of the available evidence, including the Penrose Report and material held by the Society and following the result of the Society’s case against its previous auditors and some of its former directors, the Serious Fraud Office confirms that nothing has emerged which would justify a full criminal investigation into the affairs of the Equitable Life Assurance Society ". WE-CONF 30 contains a letter by the SFO to a policyholder explaining the SFO's decision: " This decision was based on a thorough examination of the Penrose report and extensive enquiries to determine whether there was sufficient evidence to commence a criminal investigation with a view to prosecution. Our review took into account the outcome of the civil proceedings brought by Equitable Life against its former auditors and former company directors and officers. The test that SFO applies in such assessment is whether the evidence against any individual or entity is sufficiently strong to give reasonable prospect of securing a conviction before a jury. The offence or offences need to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. The SFO review concluded that, respective of the evidence, the test would not be met. " Mr LAKE (H1) criticised that " bizarrely, the SFO took