by Parliament Amendment 1 RECITAL 1 A (new) (1a) Provision should be made for the Director to be appointed on a proposal from the Commission, after hearing the opinion of the representative appointed by the European Parliament. Amendment 2 RECITAL 2 (2) Provision should be made to extend this term of office once, after suitable evaluation. (2) Provision should be made to extend this term of office once, after suitable evaluation and after hearing the representative of the European Parliament. Amendment 3 ARTICLE 1 Article 10, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 (Regulation (EC) No 1035/97) 1. The Centre shall be headed by a Director appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Commission for a four‑year period which, on a proposal from the Commission and after evaluation, may be extended once for a period of not more than four years. 1. The Centre shall be headed by a Director appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Commission , after hearing the opinion of the representative appointed by the European Parliament, for a four‑year period which, on a proposal from the Commission , after hearing the opinion of the representative appointed by the European Parliament, and after evaluation, may be extended once for a period of not more than four years. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The renewal of the terms of office of the directors of the 18 decentralised agencies and bodies set up under the first pillar raises a legal problem which has been identified by the Commission's legal service. The use of the term 'renewable' in the basic regulations for the various agencies harks back to Article 214(1) of the EC Treaty, on appointing Commission Members, and Articles 223 and 225 on appointing Court of Justice Judges. In neither case, however, may a simplified procedure be applied. If the same practice were applied, the various agencies would have to follow the lengthy -and expensive - appointment procedure laid down in the basic regulations in order to extend the term of office of their respective directors. To solve this problem, the Commission has submitted to us 18 proposals for regulations for the purpose of amending the various basic regulations. Your rapporteur approves the Commission proposals but is taking this opportunity to give Parliament a role in the procedures for the appointment, and renewal of the term of office of, the directors of the agencies in question. PROCEDURE Title Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1035/97 establishing a European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia as regards the Director’s term of office References COM(2005)0190 – C6‑0205/2005 – 2005/0080(CNS) Date of consulting Parliament 17.6.2005 Committee responsible Date announced in plenary JURI 22.6.2005 Committee(s) asked for opinion(s) Date announced in plenary LIBE 22.6.2005 Not delivering opinion(s) Date of decision LIBE 7.7.2005 Enhanced cooperation Date announced in plenary Rapporteur(s) Date appointed Giuseppe Gargani 15.6.2005 Previous rapporteur(s) Simplified procedure – date of decision Date of decision Legal basis disputed Date of JURI opinion / Financial endowment amended Date of BUDG opinion / Parliament to consult European Economic and Social Committee – date