Article 8(5) 5. Following ex-post checks under Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93, the Commission may at any time identify cases of nullity under paragraph 4 and declare the extension in question null and void. 5. Following ex-post checks under Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93, the Commission may at any time identify cases of nullity under paragraph 4 and , by means of a reasoned decision, declare the extension in question null and void. (Amendment 31) Article 8(10) 10. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38 . 10. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal by the Commission . (Amendment 32) Article 10(1), introduction 1. Before the beginning of the fishing year, each producer organisation shall draw up an operational programme for the fishing year and send it to the competent authorities of the Member State, comprising: 1. A)For fisheries products: Before the beginning of the fishing year, each producer organisation shall draw up an operational programme for the fishing year and send it to the competent authorities of the Member State, comprising: (Amendment 56) Article 10(1)(B) (new) B)For aquaculture products: At intervals to be determined by each Member State, but which shall be at least annual, each producer organisation shall draw up and send to the competent authorities of the Member State a marketing programme for its aquaculture products, comprising: a) a forward marketing plan setting out the measures to be implemented by the organisation to match the quantity and quality of supply to market requirements; b) penalties applicable to members who infringe the provisions of a) above. (Amendment 33) Article 10(2), introduction and (a) and (b) 2. Member States shall carry out appropriate checks to ensure that each producer organisation fulfils the obligations provided for in paragraph 1, and shall apply the following provisions in the event that these obligations are not fulfilled: 2. Member States shall carry out appropriate checks to ensure that each producer organisation fulfils the obligations provided for in paragraph 1 A) and B) above , and shall apply the following provisions in the event that these obligations are not fulfilled: a) no financial assistance shall be granted for the fishing year concerned for intervention operations carried out under Title IV to producer organisations which have failed to draw up or transmit in good time an operational programme for the fishing year drawn up in accordance with paragraph 1 ; a) no financial assistance shall be granted for the fishing year referred to in paragraph 1A) or the marketing programme for aquaculture products in paragraph 1B) for intervention operations carried out under Title IV to producer organisations which have failed to draw up or transmit in good time an operational programme for the fishing year or a marketing programme for aquaculture products, drawn up in accordance with paragraph 1A) and B ); b) the penalty provided for in (a) shall also apply in cases where a producer organisation has not