to the methodologies and practices, procedures and processes of credit rating agency should be made prior to their coming into effect, unless extreme market conditions require an immediate change in the credit rating. Justification This wording clarifies that it is the task of the credit rating agency to review the methods and models used. Amendment 1 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 17 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( 1 7a) In order to reinforce transparency and enhance the information and protection provided to investors , the CESR should monitor the past performances of credit rating agencies on the basis of statistical results and should publish its findings . Amendment 1 9 Proposal for a regulation Recital 18 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (18) Under certain circumstances structured finance instruments may have effects which are different from traditional corporate debt instruments. It could be misleading for investors to apply the same rating categories to both types of instruments without further explanation. Credit rating agencies should play an important role in raising awareness of the users of ratings about the specificities of the structured finance products in relation to traditional ones. Therefore credit rating agencies should either use different rating categories when rating structured finance instruments or provide additional information on the different risk characteristics of these products. (18) Under certain circumstances structured finance instruments may have effects which are different from traditional corporate debt instruments. It could be misleading for investors to apply the same rating categories to both types of instruments without further explanation. Credit rating agencies should play an important role in raising awareness of the users of ratings about the specificities of the structured finance products in relation to traditional ones. Therefore credit rating agencies should use different rating categories when rating structured finance instruments , for example by carrying a supplemental annotation, and provide additional information on the different risk characteristics of these products. They should also indicate when they are rating a product for the first time and when they are rating a newly-created product. Amendment 20 Proposal for a regulation Recital 19 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (19) Credit rating agencies should take measures to avoid situations where issuers request the preliminary rating assessment of the structured finance instrument concerned from a number of credit rating agencies in order to identify the one offering the best credit rating for the proposed structure. Issuers should also avoid applying such practices. (19) When issuing a credit rating, credit rating agencies should state in their final report, where applicable, that issuers have requested the preliminary rating assessment of the structured finance instrument concerned from a number of credit rating agencies in order to identify the one offering the best credit rating for the proposed structure. Issuers should avoid applying such practices. Justification Issuers of structured instruments must be allowed to seek a range of offers. However, to ensure that the fact of enquiring in several quarters is not taken to imply that there are no sufficient guarantees as to the quality of rating agency