with a Union strategy for growth and jobs. Inter linkages between the different strands should not provide for exemptions from the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. (2d) Strengthening economic governance should include a closer and more timely involvement of the European Parliament and the national parliaments. (2e) Achieving and maintaining a dynamic Single Market should be considered an element of the proper and smooth functioning of economic and monetary union. (2f) The Commission should play a stronger coordination role in the enhanced surveillance procedures, mainly as regards Member-State-specific assessments, monitoring, missions in situ, recommendations and warnings. (2g) The Commission should have a stronger role in the enhanced surveillance procedure as regards assessments that are specific to each Member State, monitoring, missions, recommendations and warnings. In particular, the role of the Council should be limited in decision on sanctions and the reversed qualified majority voting in the Council should be used. (2h) An economic dialogue with the European Parliament may be established, enabling the Commission to make its analyses public and for the President of the Council, the Commission and, where appropriate, the President of the European Council or the President of the Eurogroup to discuss. Such a public debate could enable the discussion of the spillovers of the national decisions and enable public peer pressure. The competent committee of the European Parliament may offer the opportunity to the Member State concerned by Council decisions taken pursuant to Articles 3, 4 and 5 of this Regulation to participate in an exchange of views. (3) Additional sanctions are necessary to make the enforcement of budgetary surveillance more effective in the euro area. Those sanctions should enhance the credibility of the fiscal surveillance framework of the Union. (4) The rules laid down by this Regulation should ensure fair, timely, graduated and effective mechanisms for compliance with the preventive and the corrective parts of the Stability and Growth Pact, in particular Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 of 7 July 1997 on the strengthening of the surveillance of budgetary positions and the surveillance and coordination of economic policies OJ L 209, 2.8.1997, p. 1. and Council Regulation (EC) No 1467/97 of 7 July 1997 on speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the excessive deficit procedure , where compliance with the budgetary discipline is examined on the basis of the government deficit and government debt criteria OJ L 209, 2.8.1997, p. 6. . (5) Sanctions for Member States whose currency is the euro under this regulation in the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact should provide incentives for adjusting to and maintaining the medium-term budgetary objective. (5a) In order to deter misrepresentation, intentionally or by serious negligence, of government deficit and debt data, which is an essential input to economic policy coordination in the European Union, a fine should be imposed on the Member State responsible for such misrepresentation. (6) In order to supplement the rules on calculation of the fines against manipulation of statistics as well as on the procedure to be followed by the Commission for the investigation of such actions, the