demanding a wage increase at a Kazakmys mining plant in the Karaganda region were threatened by a management representative that ‘if you decide to organise a second Zhanaozen, the guards will be given weapons and will be allowed to shoot’; M. whereas on 6 January, the President of Kazakhstan signed the Law on National Security that boosts the authority of the security services and affirms that persons considered to harm the country’s image on the world stage can be deemed ‘destructive’ and are subject to repression; N. whereas defamation remains criminalised and whereas the law on the Introduction of Changes and Additions to the legislation about Informational-Communicative networks of 10 July 2009, equates internet resources (websites, chat rooms, blogs, discussion forums) with mass media outlets and made them and their owners liable for the same offences; O. whereas in September 2011 the authorities adopted a law on religion which obliges all religious groups to re-register, and includes provisions that prohibit citizens of Kazakhstan to freely practice their faith; P. whereas the general elections that took place on 16 January 2012 were deemed by the OSCE not to be in line with OSCE standards with widespread removal of opposition candidates and parties from the ballot, voting irregularities and the use of state resources and slogans to bolster the popularity of the party in government, which did not provide the necessary conditions for the conduct of genuinely pluralistic elections although this time the elections were well administered at a technical level; Q. whereas on 28 January around 1000 people in Almaty took part in an unauthorised protest against the repression and called on the authorities to put an end to political persecution; R. whereas Bolat Abilov and Amirzhan Kosanov, leaders of the OSDP/Azat opposition party and 28 other people were arrested in Almaty on 25 February 2012 for taking part in a demonstration in support of the oil workers and Abilov and Kosanov have subsequently started a hunger strike; S. whereas the Zhanaozen 2011 Committee has also announced a decision to go on a relay hunger strike from March – December 2012 to demand a fair investigation into the events in Zhanaozen; T. whereas opposition parties have announced plans for a protest rally on 24 March in Almaty to mark 100 days since the Zhanaozen killings; U. whereas Kazakhstan held the chairmanship of the OSCE in 2010 and committed to a series of democratic reforms and to respect the basic principles of this organisation; V. whereas Foreign Minister Erzhan Kazykhanov has announced Kazakhstan’s candidacy for membership of the UNHRC at the 19th session of the UN Human Rights Council on February 2012; 1. Strongly condemns the violent crackdown by the police force on peaceful demonstrators in Zhanaozen and calls for an independent, transparent, impartial and credible international investigation of the events, including into credible allegations of excessive use of force by the police and of ill-treatment and torture of detainees made by independent trade unions and independent media sources; 2. Due to the significant retreats made by the government of Kazakhstan in the recent