European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No .../... of ... with specific hygiene provisions applicable to products of animal origin for human consumption, shall apply. Amendment 4 Article 3, point 2, point (aa) (new) (aa) which comply with the conclusions of the Council of Agriculture Ministers of 4 December 2000 to ban cattle aged over 30 months which have not been tested for BSE from entering the food chain; Amendment 5 Article 3, point 2, point (ba) (new) (ba) which have been documented and recorded as part of traceability procedures that facilitate the removal of such animals from the food chain if they pose a risk to human health. Amendment 6 Article 3, paragraph 4 4. Derogations from paragraph 2 may be granted in specific situations, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11. In such cases, particular account shall be taken of: 4. Where the disease situation so permits , derogations from paragraph 2 may be granted in specific situations for definite periods of time corresponding to developments in the health status of the territory or portion of territory and reviewable at any time, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11. In such cases, particular account shall be taken of: (a) any measure or test to be carried out on the animals; (a) any measure or test to be carried out on the animals; (b) the specific characteristics of the disease in the species concerned. (b) the specific characteristics of the disease in the species concerned. Where such derogations are granted, any measures needed to ensure the protection of animal health in the Community shall be adopted in accordance with the same procedure. Where such derogations are granted, it shall be guaranteed that the degree of protection from animal disease will in no way be impaired. Any measures needed to ensure the protection of animal health in the Community shall therefore be adopted in accordance with the same procedure. Amendment 7 Article 4, paragraph 1 Official controls shall be carried out by the competent authorities of the Member States to ensure compliance with this Regulation, its implementing rules and any safeguard measures applied to products of animal origin, pursuant hereto. Unannounced official controls shall be carried out at irregular intervals by the competent authorities of the Member States to ensure compliance with this Regulation, its implementing rules and any safeguard measures applied to products of animal origin, pursuant hereto. Member States shall, where so requested, submit a report to the Commission on the controls carried out, specifying in particular the frequency of controls, the nature of the failings and infringements found to exist, and the nature of the steps taken by the competent authorities to punish them. Amendment 8 Article 5, paragraph 3 Infringements of this Regulation, its implementing rules or any safeguard health measures applied to products of animal origin, as well as any failure to cooperate with the competent authority shall result in the imposition of the appropriate criminal and/or administrative penalties by the competent national authorities. Infringements of this Regulation, its implementing rules