which the ECB participates. To my mind, this division of labour is fully in line with the allocation of responsibilities set out in the Treaty. External representation is however a gradual and dynamic process. It seems to me that there is scope for further improvement. In particular, co-ordination among Member States could be further intensified. However, overall the current system functions rather well. 11. Which responsibility and role should the ECB have concerning financial stability? Would you be in favour of the publication by the ECB of financial stability reports? What should the ECB's responsibilities be regarding financial and banking supervision? The Treaty already assigns specific statutory responsibilities to the ECB and the Eurosystem in the field of financial stability. First, the Eurosystem is responsible for promoting the smooth operation of payment systems in the euro area. This is a clear competence in the field of financial stability, given the relevance of market infrastructures as a major component of the financial system and, accordingly, as a possible channel for contagion in stress situations. Second, the Eurosystem has the task of contributing to the smooth conduct of policies pursued by the competent authorities relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions and the stability of the financial system. This provision appears to acknowledge that the central banking tasks exercised at the Community level may contribute to enhancing the pursuance of financial stability and supervisory policies at the national level. In practice, the contribution of the Eurosystem has mainly taken the form of promoting co-operation among banking supervisory authorities, and between these and the national central banks and the ECB. In this context, the role of the ESCB’s Banking Supervision Committee plays an important role. And third, the Treaty and the ESCB Statute recognise the contribution, also from a financial stability perspective, that the Eurosystem can make to shaping effective financial regulations and enhancing supervisory practices. The ECB must be consulted on any draft Community and national legislation in the fields of banking supervision and financial stability, and it can propose, on its own initiative, advice on the scope and implementation of European legislation in these areas. In more concrete terms, the Eurosystem, as the central bank of the euro area, should have a strong interest in the pursuit of financial stability within the area for the same reasons that underlie the interest of central banks at the national level. In general, given the transmission mechanisms for monetary policy, central banks are concerned with the ability of the financial system to withstand adverse shocks and thus focus their financial stability activities on monitoring possible channels for contagion and the overall exposure to systemic risk. The potential role of the Eurosystem in financial stability should be seen against the background of the ongoing integration of European financial markets, which in some instances has been accelerated by the introduction of the euro and the single monetary policy. Further integration has meant closer linkages among financial institutions, markets and market infrastructures. In a situation of stress, it is increasingly likely that contagion will spread across national borders,