G. Whereas earlier this year several trade unionists, peasant leaders and their families, people who have witnessed cases of genocide under investigation, as well as the legal representatives of the victims of genocide and activists of different organizations of human rights have also been killed, or have been victims of breaking and entering, burglaries and all kinds of psychological pressure and blackmailing; H. Whereas the Minister of Home Affairs, Carlos Vielmann, the director of the Police, Eduardo Sperinse and the director of the Penitentiary System, Víctor Rosales, accused by the opposition political parties of being responsible for the death of the members of PARLACEN, submitted their resignation; I. Having regard to the deteriorating human rights situation in Guatemala, with 56% of the population living in poverty, three-quarters of them being members of the indigenous communities, a lack of respect for their human, socio-economic and political rights, and an environment of rising impunity for crimes carried out in reality against its people; 1. Urges the Parliament of Guatemala to ratify the agreement signed on 12 December 2006 with the United Nations setting up an International Commission of Inquiry against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG); 2. Calls on the Parliament of Guatemala to adapt its internal legislation to international law standards concerning the protection and respect of human rights, the crime of genocide and crimes against humanity; 3. Calls on the government of Guatemala to adopt measures in order to protect the judiciary agents, the victims of crimes against humanity who are looking for justice, the human rights defenders and the witnesses who can enable the trials to make progress; 4. Calls on the authorities to adopt measures to reduce poverty, promote social cohesion and rural development which would lead to the elimination of human rights abuses and recourse to criminal actions, the promotion and protection of the rights of women and children, the ending of impunity, as well as the progress of indigenous people; 5. Expresses its support for the Guatemalan people, with a view to their continuing effort to uphold the rule of law and foster economic, social and political development, which will contribute to peace and national reconciliation; 6. Reaffirms its commitment to the promotion of universal human rights, in agreement with the relevant international treaties; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Member states of the European Union, the European Commission, the government of Guatemala, the government of El Salvador, the PARLACEN and the governments of the Central American countries.