Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (7 April 2005) The Commission attaches importance to the complementary efforts of Member States to help the future Member States to comply with EU standards as far as democratic freedoms are concerned. The Commission fully shares the view of the Honourable Member that press freedom in Romania is a source of concern. The Commission has already expressed this opinion in its 2004 Regular Report on Romania SE(2004) 1200. whereby it concluded that the economic situation of many mass media remained precarious and further efforts were necessary to guarantee media independence. The Commission is aware of an apparently unsuccessful application made to the Dutch co-operation programme MATRA which could potentially serve as an instrument for greater openness and transparency and better relations between the news media and the authorities. The Commission is aware of the article on the opinion page mentioned in ‘De Volkskrant’ of 20 January 2005, written by the individual whose proposal was apparently turned down, on which the Honourable Member bases his questions. The Commission considers that this application is a matter for the Dutch authorities. As the Commission was not involved in the application made by MATRA, it is therefore not aware of the details. According to Commission rules for its own technical assistance, applicants should not expect to receive subsidies or grants until a final decision has been made. The Commission is not in a position to comment on the alleged opinion of the Netherlands Embassy according to which, in the light of the elections on 28 November 2004, caution is called for in relation to the MATRA project. The Commission would however agree that there is a strong link between press freedom and politics. As regards the question of the Honourable Member on coordination between the EU and its Member States with regard to the division of tasks relating to support for newcomers, the Commission should like to recall that there is regular co-ordination on assistance between the Commission and Member States. However, the alleged turning down of an application for a subsidy by a Member State for one of its own programmes is a matter for that Member State alone.