it appropriate to do so. Article 28 Post-trade transparency for MTFs 1. Member States shall require that investment firms operating an MTF make public the price, volume and time of the transactions executed under its rules and systems in respect of shares which are admitted to trading on a regulated market. Member States shall require that details of all such transactions be made public, on a reasonable commercial basis, as close to real time as possible. These requirements shall not apply where details of trades executed on an MTF are made public under the rules of a regulated market. 2. The competent authority shall ensure that the content and timing of the post-trade information, and the methods for its publication comply with the same requirements as apply pursuant to Article 43 in respect of transactions in shares undertaken on a regulated market. Chapter III RIGHTS OF INVESTMENT FIRMS Article 29 Freedom to provide services 1. Member States shall ensure that any investment firm authorised and supervised by the competent authorities of another Member State in accordance with this Directive may freely provide investment and ancillary services within their territories, provided that such services are covered by its authorisation. Member States shall not impose any additional requirements on such an investment firm in respect of the matters covered by this Directive. 2. Any investment firm wishing to provide services within the territory of another Member State for the first time, or which wishes to change the range of services so provided, shall communicate the following information to the competent authorities of its home Member State: a) the Member State in which it intends to operate; b) a programme of operations stating in particular the investment or ancillary services which it intends to provide and whether it intends to employ the services of tied agents in the territory of the Member States in which it intends to provide services. 3. The competent authority of the home Member State shall, within one month of receiving the information, forward it to the competent authority of the host Member State . 4. In the event of a change in any of the particulars communicated in accordance with paragraph 2, an investment firm shall give written notice of that change to the competent authority of the home Member State at least one month before implementing the change. The competent authority of the home Member State shall inform the competent authority of the host Member State of those changes. 5. Member States shall, without further legal or administrative requirement, allow MTFs from other Member States to provide appropriate arrangements on their territory so as to facilitate access to and use of their systems by remote users or participants established in their territory. Article 30 Establishment of a branch 1. Member States shall ensure that investment and ancillary services may be provided within their territories through the establishment of a branch of an investment firm provided that those services are covered by the authorisation granted to the investment firm in the home Member State. Member States shall not impose any