external assistance programmes by the recipient countries. Care should be taken that the NGOs (and the international aid system in general) should not directly take over tasks that should really be provided by states themselves. There is a need for countries to take responsibility for their own development and international aid should support the strengthening of domestic capacities to achieve this rather than substituting them. It is important that NGO interventions do not neglect or contradict efforts made by emerging democratic states. This point was particularly emphasised by Ashraf Ghani, who argued strongly that the state must be the primary channel through which development assistance should flow in order to foster strong domestic institutions. Strong institutions were, he said, a necessary condition for development assistance to be translated into durable progress in economic, social and democratic terms. 13. The next logical step for the Parliament would be to build on the earlier work on NGO financing in the committee on budgets and the initial output of the external policies hearing through analysis focussing on the qualitative value-for-money of EU funds in the area of development assistance. The cost-benefit analysis report by Economisti Associati on "assessment of budgetary resources and means in the area of development and co-operation" conducted on behalf of the committee on budgets in the context of the 2007 budget procedure could be seen as first step in this process. 14. The need for such an approach and for further work in this area would seem to be supported by the findings of this study, the key elements of which can be summarised as: · high diversity between NGOs (good performers and bad performers) but insufficient evaluations in many areas to properly assess cost effectiveness; · high variance of support costs between NGOs, some managing to channel over 80% of funds to the final beneficiaries whereas others only manage 30%; · no systematic evidence that NGOs are more cost-effective than government institutions. Section III - options for further work in the committee on budgets 15. Based on the above analysis of previous work in this area and analysis conducted in the context of the 2007 budget procedure, the rapporteur would like to propose three ideas as regards future work in this area. 16. Firstly, the rapporteur considers that in light of the success of the policy hearings held in May and June 2006 (summarised in the rapporteur's working document 12), the committee on budgets might consider holding further similar hearings during 2007. As regards, the role of NGOs in implementing development assistance, this might be the subject of a hearing focussed on external policies in the early part of 2007 and aiming to inform the Parliament's approach to priorities for external policies for the 2008 budget. Any such hearings should, in the rapporteur's view, be conducted in close co-operation with the relevant specialised committees. 17. Secondly, the rapporteur considers that further analysis might be conducted looking more specifically at the role of NGOs in ensuring qualitative value for money in EU external development assistance. This might be done using the