WRITTEN QUESTION E-2700/04 by Ria Oomen-Ruijten (PPE-DE) to the Commission (29 October 2004) Subject: European Life programme In previous years proposals for projects under the European Life programme had to be submitted to the national contact points by the end of October. These national contact points then forwarded the proposals to the Life Unit in Brussels by 1 December. Work could start on the projects immediately after 1 December. This year an additional budget was released allowing the Life programme to be extended. Up until recently the information provided by the Member States and the Commission gave the usual date as the deadline for submitting applications. At the end of week 40 it was announced that the deadline for proposals was not 1 December but 15 January 2005 and, more importantly, that projects could not start until 15 January. Up until the end of week 40 the Life Unit's Internet site said: ‘Your attention is drawn to the fact that the earliest possible starting date of a project is the day following the date on which the proposal is submitted to the Commission. Any costs associated with the project between this date and the date of notification of the grant agreement may be eligible but are incurred at the risk of the applicant.’ This meant that projects could start as soon as they had been submitted. However, on 4 October 2004 the text read as follows: ‘Your attention is drawn to the fact that the earliest possible starting date of a project is the day following the deadline for the submission of the proposal to the Commission Any costs associated with the project between this date and the date of notification of the grant agreement may be eligible but are incurred at the risk of the applicant.’ This means that projects submitted cannot start before 15 January 2005. 1. Is the Commission aware that making it impossible for a project under the Life programme to start before 15 January 2005 entails an unacceptable delay for a good many projects? 2. Does the Commission not think that making changes at this stage to announcements on the Life Unit's Internet site, as described above, causes unnecessary confusion for European citizens and their organisations? 3. Why not give applicants the option of starting work immediately on projects submitted before 15 January, particularly as it is they who bear the risk of any costs?