five shark species scalloped hammerhead ( Sphyrna lewini ), great hammerhead ( Sphyrna mokarran ), smooth hammerhead ( Sphyrna zygaena ), sandbar shark ( Carcharhinus plumbeus ) and dusky shark ( Carcharhinus obscurus ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of the United States of America; 7. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the listing of the oceanic whitetip shark ( Carcharhinus longimanus ) in CITES Appendix II, in line with the proposal of the United States of America; Polar bear 8. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the transfer of the polar bear ( Ursus maritimus ) from CITES Appendix II to CITES Appendix I, in line with the proposal of the United States of America; Elephants and ivory 9. Urges the Commission and the Member States to reject: - the proposals from Tanzania and Zambia for the downlisting of the African elephant (Loxodonta africana) from CITES Appendix I to CITES Appendix II with a view to trade; - all downlisting proposals for African elephants at least until such time as a true assessment can be made of the impact of the November 2008 ‘one-off’ sales from Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zimbabwe, as there is mounting evidence of increasing illegal and organised trade across Africa; 10. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the proposal made by Kenya, Ghana, Liberia, Mali, Sierra Leone, Togo, Congo and Rwanda to include an annotation for African elephants preventing any future proposals to trade ivory or to downlist elephant populations from CITES Appendix I to CITES Appendix II until 20 years after the date of the one-off sale of ivory that took place in November 2008; 11. Encourages the CITES Parties who benefited from the one-off sale of government-owned ivory stocks to provide financial support to the African Elephant Fund to enhance enforcement and anti-poaching initiatives; 12. Encourages wider and more inclusive consultation with all elephant range states in considering action relating to any downlisting of African elephants and subsequent one-off sales; 13. Encourages the development of more robust methods of monitoring the illegal trade in ivory, involving a wide range of actors; Tigers and Asian big cats 14. Welcomes the EU’s proposal for strengthening CITES Resolution Conf. 12.5 on conservation of and trade in tigers and other Appendix I Asian big-cat species; 15. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to support efforts to tackle the illegal trade in Asian big-cat parts and derivatives, with an emphasis on helping to improve enforcement and information exchange, particularly by enhancing the abilities of Interpol, UNODC, WCO and CITES to tackle wildlife crime and provide training; 16. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to support efforts to reduce the demand for Asian big-cat parts and derivatives amongst its own population and in other countries; Other species 17. Urges the Commission and the Member States to support the following proposals: - the listing of Corallium spp. and Paracorallium spp. in CITES Appendix II, tabled by Sweden on behalf of the Member States; -