Papanikolaou , Franziska Keller , Franz Obermayr , Elena Băsescu and Harlem Désir . The following spoke: Cecilia Malmström and Csaba Sógor . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 21.9.2010, item 5.5 . 18 Trade and economic relations with Turkey (debate) Report on trade and economic relations with Turkey [ 2009/2200(INI) ] - Committee on International Trade. Rapporteur: Metin Kazak ( A7-0238/2010 ) Metin Kazak introduced the report. The following spoke: Karel De Gucht (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl, on behalf of the PPE Group, Francesca Balzani, on behalf of the S&D Group, Niccolò Rinaldi, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Franziska Keller, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Kyriacos Triantaphyllides, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, William (The Earl of) Dartmouth, on behalf of the EFD Group, Laurence J.A.J. Stassen, non-attached Member, Ria Oomen-Ruijten, Kader Arif, who then replied to a 'blue card' question from William (The Earl of) Dartmouth , Anneli Jäätteenmäki , Niki Tzavela , Georgios Papastamkos , George Sabin Cutaş , Jaroslav Paška , Jarosław Leszek Wałęsa , Mara Bizzotto and Elisabeth Köstinger . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Danuta Jazłowiecka , Ioan Mircea Paşcu , Oreste Rossi , Andreas Mölzer , Elena Băsescu , Antigoni Papadopoulou and Georgios Koumoutsakos . IN THE CHAIR: Stavros LAMBRINIDIS Vice-President The following spoke: Karel De Gucht and Metin Kazak . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 21.9.2010, item 5.6 . 19 EU legislation aiming at the conservation of biodiversity (debate) Report on the implementation of EU legislation aiming at the conservation of biodiversity [ 2009/2108(INI) ] - Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. Rapporteur: Esther de Lange ( A7-0241/2010 ) Esther de Lange introduced the report. The following spoke: Karel De Gucht (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Isabella Lövin (rapporteur for the opinion of the PECH Committee), Richard Seeber , on behalf of the PPE Group, Jo Leinen , on behalf of the S&D Group, Gerben-Jan Gerbrandy , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Sandrine Bélier , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Peter van Dalen , on behalf of the ECR Group, João Ferreira , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Anna Rosbach , on behalf of the EFD Group, Cristina Gutiérrez-Cortines , Andres Perello Rodriguez , Bas Eickhout , James Nicholson , Elena Oana Antonescu , Kathleen Van Brempt and Maria Da Graça Carvalho . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Seán Kelly , Bogusław Sonik , Christa Klaß , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Rovana Plumb , Barbara Matera , Rareş-Lucian Niculescu , Janusz Wojciechowski , Angelika Werthmann and Oreste Rossi . The following spoke: Karel De Gucht and Esther de Lange . IN THE CHAIR: Edward McMILLAN-SCOTT Vice-President The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 21.9.2010, item 5.7 . 20 One-minute speeches on matters of political importance In accordance with Rule 150, the following Members who wished to draw the attention of Parliament to matters of political importance spoke for one minute: Carlos José Iturgaiz Angulo , Monika Flašíková Beňová , Sonia Alfano , Michail