a vehicle which has committed an offence. Following identification, an offence notification is sent by the relevant authority in the State of offence to the holder of the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned (Article 5) which describes the details of the offence, the amount of the financial penalty that the holder is required to pay, the payment procedures - these procedures must facilitate as far as possible crossborder banking transactions - and appeals procedures. As far as follow-up is concerned, this constitutes the second phase of the treatment of the penalty under Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA of the Council on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to financial penalties. The proposal for a directive also provides personal data protection safeguards (Article 7), referring in this connection to Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Finally, the proposal introduces comitology measures (Article 8) concerning the drawing up of common rules for the establishment of the electronic network or the adjustment of the offence notification model. The rapporteur's position on the Commission proposal Your rapporteur shares the Commission's objectives as regards road safety and takes the view that the approach adopted will indeed reduce the number of offences on European roads. She supports in particular the priority given by the Commission to the four offences referred to in Article 1 of the proposal for a directive, the purpose being to concentrate on those road safety offences that are responsible for most fatalities. However, a number of points should be addressed with a view to making improvements or overcoming certain shortcomings in the proposal. 1) The follow-up of offences : your rapporteur reiterates that this should take place, as far as possible, through Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA. However, in order to take into account differences between national legislations as regard road traffic sanction decisions, your rapporteur would also like enforcement safeguards to be provided where the framework decision is not applicable. For in some EU Member States sanctions are an administrative rather than criminal matter. In order to take into account these specific national features, your rapporteur has proposed an addition allowing the penalty decision to be transmitted to and followed up by the authorities of the State of residence of the person having committed the offence. 2) Road safety control practices : your rapporteur would like Member States to strengthen these practices by establishing minimum comparable criteria by means of guidelines. 3) Personal data protection : your rapporteur has taken on board a number of concerns voiced by the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) in his opinion of 8 May 2008. The proposals that have been made will thus allow the technical measures taken in comitology on the management of the electronic data exchange network to be incorporated and safeguard a number of rights provided by Directive 95/45/EC to be enshrined in the body of the directive and in the offence notification contained in the Annex. 4)