WRITTEN QUESTION P-2371/06 by Véronique De Keyser (PSE) to the Commission (23 May 2006) Subject: State of medical and paramedical training in Belgium's French-speaking community As a result of the particular situation that has existed for several years in higher education in Belgium’s French-speaking community, more especially at the schools which train, among others, veterinary surgeons, physiotherapists, speech therapists, occupational therapists, and midwives, students who are Belgian nationals or have lived in Belgium for more than three years are being placed at a severe disadvantage by the massive influx of students from neighbouring countries. In addition, this situation may lead in the near future to a shortage of personnel to practise the above professions in Belgium and might create a serious public health problem because, once they have qualified, non-Belgian students go home to practise in their own countries. To give an example, French students account for 216 of the 250 places available to those wishing to train as veterinary surgeons. They make up over 75 % of those admitted to train as physiotherapists, 60 % of trainee speech therapists, 64 % of trainee midwives, and so on. One of the main contributory factors is the fixed intake laid down in France, which restricts the numbers who can be admitted to study there (436 in 2003, 329 in 2004, and 221 in 2005 in the case of veterinary surgeons) and the conditions of access imposed. It is important that Belgium should be able to regulate this influx, which is adversely affecting its nationals or residents, and take safeguard measures consistent with European law. The Court of Justice has accepted that a country is permitted to make exceptions to Article 12 of the Treaty, which stipulates that ‘any discrimination on grounds of nationality shall be prohibited’, if particular circumstances arise. Belgium, as a matter of policy, has always rejected the principle of entrance examinations as employed in other Member States. Obviously, it observes European law and respects the right of mobility accorded to students, but does not wish, in so doing, to harm its own students, jeopardise its higher education system, and put national public health directly and seriously at risk by unintentionally creating a future shortage of practitioners. It ought to be possible to reach what might be termed a compromise by setting a quota of, say, 30 % of the number of students duly enrolled on a given course concerned in the preceding academic year. The quota would apply only to those students who were attracted to Belgium purely by the excellence of its higher education but had not previously lived there. How does the Commission view a proposal along these lines, which, without undermining the European spirit, would save Belgium from the looming shortage of practitioners on its territory?