placed in particular on the researching and implementation of methodologies capable of preventing human or organisational error (individual or collective). An appropriate ‘safety culture’ will also be encouraged in all undertakings, thereby ensuring that both the body owning the plant and its workers have safety as a fundamental priority objective. Research in the areas of reactor safety and severe accidents in respect of both Western and Russian types of reactor. Justification Self explanatory. Enhancing the safety of nuclear power stations is in the interest of European citizens. The rapporteur is quite right to expressly include the risk of human error in his amendment 7. However, reference should also be made to ‘organisational error’, since it has been shown that, even in highly reliable facilities, an error in the organisational chain of the production process can be fatal and result in accidents. This was the case at Chernobyl, where a breach of one of the safety procedures by an operator was at the origin of the events which led to the accident. Improved organisation and the establishment of a ‘safety culture’, including improved monitoring of production processes, could even help prevent human error. The concern to ensure high levels of reactor safety and to prevent severe nuclear accidents is an overriding one for the Euratom. These RTD activities respond also to an acute need of the European public opinion and are therefore highly visible. Furthermore, after the latest enlargement, the EU includes in its territory several Russian-type reactors that are due to close in the near future but must be continuously monitored for their safety alongside with the existing Western-type reactors . Amendment 19 Annex 1, subtitle ‘Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection’, subtitle ‘Activities’, bullet 4 To support the availability of research infrastructures such as material test reactors, underground research laboratories and radiobiology facilities and tissue banks, necessary to maintain high standards of technical achievement, innovation and safety in the European nuclear sector. To support the availability of research infrastructures such as material test reactors and training reactors , research laboratories and radiobiology facilities and tissue banks, necessary to maintain high standards of technical achievement, innovation and safety in the European nuclear sector. Amendment 20 Annex I, subtitle 'Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection', subtitle 'Activities', bullet 5 Human resources and training Human resources , mobility, education and training To support the retention and further development of scientific competence and human capacity in order to guarantee the availability of suitably qualified researchers and employees in the nuclear sector over the longer term . To support the retention and further development of scientific competence and human capacity in order to guarantee the availability of suitably qualified researchers , engineers, physicists, psychologists specialising in organisational systems, and employees in the nuclear sector as quickly as possible, in particular by maintaining educational efforts in universities with an emphasis on organising joint post-graduate studies in the fields of nuclear engineering and radiation protection ; and to promote safety as a priority. Justification This amendment is related to the amendment by the same author to bullet 2 of the