residence may notify the home Member State of the declaration referred to in Article 9(2). To that end, the relevant, and normally available, information from the home Member State shall be provided in good time and in an appropriate manner; such information may only include details which are strictly necessary for the implementation of this Article and may only be used for that purpose. 3. The home Member State may, in good time and in an appropriate manner, submit to the Member State of residence any information necessary for the implementation of this Article." Justification The amendment puts the right to vote in line with the right to stand as a candidate and is based on the same reasoning as amendment 16. Amendment 20 ARTICLE 1, POINT 3, POINT (-A) (new) Article 10, paragraph 1, point (b) (Directive 93/109/EC) (-a) point (b) of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: "(b) where applicable, that he or she is standing as a candidate for election to the European Parliament in another Member State , and" Justification If dual candidacy is no longer excluded by the Directive, it should be handled in a transparent manner. Amendment 21 ARTICLE 1, POINT 3, POINT (A) Article 10, paragraph 1, point (d) (Directive 93/109/EC) (d) that he has not been deprived of the right to stand as a candidate in the home Member State . deleted Justification Consistent with the above. Amendment 22 ARTICLE 1, POINT 3, POINT (C) Article 10, paragraph 3 (Directive 93/109/EC) (c) paragraph 3 is renumbered paragraph 2. (c) paragraph 3 is renumbered paragraph 2 and amended as follows: "The Member State of residence may also require Community nationals who are entitled to stand as candidates to produce a valid identity document. It may also require them to indicate the date from which they have been nationals of a Member State and whether they have been deprived of the right to stand as a candidate in their home Member State ." Justification Consistent with amendment 21. Amendment 23 ARTICLE 1, POINT 4 Article 13 paragraph 1 (Directive 93/109/EC) 1. The Member State of residence shall take the necessary measures to ensure that such inaccuracies in the formal declarations provided for by Articles 9(2) and 10(1) as have the effect of a violation of the obligations imposed by this Directive are subject to effective, proportional and dissuasive penalties. 1. The Member State of residence shall take the necessary measures to ensure that inaccuracies in the formal declarations provided for by Articles 9(2) and 10(1) are subject to effective, proportional and dissuasive penalties. Justification The wording of the provision as proposed by the Commission gives the impression as if the Directive creates direct obligations for the citizen of the Union which is and cannot be the case. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The Commission has tabled a proposal for a Council Directive to amend Directive 93/109/EC of 6 December 1993 which lays down certain detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament for EU