of progress reports which shall also cover the implementation of the plan for the use or dissemination of knowledge submitted by the participants in accordance with the terms of the contract. In monitoring the networks of excellence, the integrated projects and, where necessary, other indirect actions, the Commission shall be assisted by independent experts appointed in accordance with Article 11(2). The Commission shall ensure that all the information which it receives on pre-existing know-how and on knowledge expected or acquired during the course of an indirect action is treated confidentially. 2. In accordance with the contract, the Commission shall take any useful steps to ensure that the objectives of the indirect action are achieved with proper regard for the financial interests of the Community. The Commission may, where necessary for the sake of these interests, adjust the Community financial contribution or suspend the indirect action if the terms of this Regulation or of the contract have been infringed. 3. The Commission, or any representative authorised by it, shall have the right to carry out scientific , technological and financial audits on the participants, in order to ensure that the indirect action is being or has been performed under the conditions claimed and in accordance with the terms of the contract. The contract shall specify the conditions under which participants may object to a technological audit of the use and dissemination of the knowledge being carried out by certain authorised representatives of the Commission. 4. Pursuant to Article 248(2) of the Treaty, the Court of Auditors may verify the use of the Community's financial contribution . Article 19 Information made available to Member States and Associated States The Commission shall make available to any Member State or Associated State, upon request, its useful information on knowledge arising from work carried out in an indirect action, provided that such information is relevant to public policy, unless the participants provide a reasoned case against doing so. Under no circumstances shall such availability confer any rights or impose any obligations of the Commission and participants, as set out in Articles 21 to 28, on Member States or Associated States receiving such information. Unless such general information becomes public or is made available by the participants or has been communicated without any confidentiality restrictions, Member States and Associated States shall comply with the Commission's obligations on confidentiality as established by this Regulation. Article 20 Protection of the financial interests of the Community The Commission shall ensure that, when indirect actions are implemented, the financial interests of the Community are protected by effective checks and by deterrent measures and, if irregularities are detected, by penalties which are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) Nos 2988/95 and 2185/96 OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 2. , and with European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1073/ 1999 OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. . CHAPTER III RULES FOR DISSEMINATION AND USE Article 21 Ownership of knowledge 1. Knowledge arising from work carried out under direct actions shall be the property of the Community. 2. Knowledge