whereas the European Union, pursuant to Article 6(1) of the EU Treaty, has given a commitment to the principles of ‘liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law’, and is thus under a legal and moral obligation to help in the fight against organised crime, F. whereas organised crime is profiting from the Community’s past policy in connection with the introduction of fundamental freedoms and abolishing border checks within the EU and whereas every effort must be made to ensure greater cooperation between national police forces and judicial authorities in order to combat the spread of all forms of organised crime and the threat it represents to society and the Community as a whole, G. concerned that criminal organisations, which normally operate across borders, are using their high degree of mobility to exploit the provisions restricting the powers of the authorities to their own national territory, and are also exploiting the diversity of administrative and criminal justice systems, taking up residence in accordance with their ‘requirements’, H. whereas disparities exist between national prosecution systems and there is therefore a need for greater cooperation between the Member States for the purpose of determining areas in which national prosecution systems can be more closely aligned in order to secure the effective prosecution of criminals and criminal organisations operating across borders, I. whereas, as the risk of detection is one of the primary deterrents to crime, effective measures to combat crime will at the same time have a substantial preventive effect, but whereas, in any case, in addition to prosecution, prevention should play a major role in the EU's strategy to combat organised crime; J. whereas establishing an area of freedom, security and justice requires effective action against organised crime and this will be possible only if the EU Member States act in concert and are prepared to put aside their national interests if joint measures offer greater prospects of success, K. whereas it is essential in the fight against organised crime that cooperation with administrations in third countries be stepped up and information be shared that will lead to the successful countering of organised crime which operates across international borders worldwide, L. whereas a longer-term joint strategy is therefore required, embodying not only objectives but also deadlines, and setting priorities, M. whereas the objectives set in such an action plan cannot be based on wishful thinking, but must be feasible, N. convinced that some politically highly contentious matters also need to be tackled promptly, as delays would thwart any chances of improvement, Failure to consult Parliament on strategic papers 1. Confirms the need to combat organised crime at Union level whilst ensuring that fundamental freedoms, the rights of the individual and procedural guarantees are upheld, in particular the rights of the defence and respect for privacy; 2. Welcomes, therefore, as a matter of principle, the drafting of a new action plan setting out a European Union strategy for the prevention and control of organised crime for the beginning of the new millennium, thus ensuring joint action; 3. Points