22 May 2008 on intercultural competences OJ C 141, 7.6.2008, p. 14. and on a European approach to media literacy in the digital environment OJ C 140, 6.6.2008, p. 8. , – having regard to the 1982 UNESCO Grünwald Declaration on Media Education, – having regard to the 2007 UNESCO Paris Agenda ‐ twelve recommendations for media education, – having regard to Council of Europe Recommendation Rec(2006)12 of the Committee of Ministers to member states on empowering children in the new information and communications environment, – having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Culture and Education ( A6-0461/2008 ), A. whereas the media make themselves felt in politics and the day-to-day life of society; whereas a high degree of media concentration can endanger media pluralism; and whereas media literacy is therefore central to political culture and active participation by Union citizens, B. whereas all types of media, audiovisual and printed, traditional and digital, are blending together and the different forms of media are converging, both technically and in terms of content; whereas new mass media are penetrating into all areas of life thanks to innovative technologies; whereas these new media call for users to take a more active role and whereas social communities, weblogs and video games are also forms of media, C. whereas, as far as young media users are concerned, the Internet is the first and principal source of information; whereas their Internet skills are geared to their specific needs, without being systematically ordered; whereas adults, by contrast, keep themselves informed primarily with the aid of radio, television, newspapers and magazines; and whereas, in the current media environment, media literacy therefore helps to meet the challenges posed by new media – particularly the scope they offer for interaction and creative participation – as well as providing the knowledge needed for traditional media, which are still a main source of public information, D. whereas new communication technologies can swamp the uninformed user in a landslide of information that is undifferentiated in terms of its relevance, with excessive information potentially posing as big a problem as a lack of information, E. whereas proper training in IT and media use, respectful of the rights and freedoms of others, significantly enhances employability from an individual point of view and, from the point of view of the economy as a whole, helps to achieve the Lisbon goals, F. whereas broad access to communication technologies affords everyone the possibility of transmitting information globally, meaning that every member of the public is a potential journalist, and making media literacy a necessity not only for understanding information but also for generating and distributing media content; and whereas computer skills alone consequently do not lead automatically to greater media literacy, G. whereas, when it comes to the development of telecommunication networks and progress towards disseminating information and communication technology (ICT), there are significant differences between the Member States, as well as between regions, particularly in remote and rural areas, posing the threat that the digital divide