cost-effective pathway towards a 80 % reduction in 2050 as compared to 1990; whereas 80 % is on the low end of the 80-95 % range which the IPCC considered necessary for industrialised countries, and which the European Council adopted as the EU target for 2050; E. whereas industry needs to have a clear picture of the EU’s low-carbon strategy, which must also be backed up by regulatory certainty, ambitious targets and well-designed funding mechanisms, with a view to making long-term green investments; F. whereas it is in the interests of Member States to reduce their dependence on foreign energy suppliers, especially from politically problematic countries; G. whereas the International Energy Agency has calculated that four-fifths of the total energy-related CO 2 emissions permitted up to 2035 by the 450 Scenario are already locked in by existing capital stocks; H. whereas it is necessary to assess and act against the risk that, in the absence of sufficient global efforts, domestic action will lead to a shift in market share towards less efficient installations elsewhere, thereby resulting in increased emissions globally, i.e. in carbon leakage; I. whereas the Stern report estimates that the costs of non-action in climate protection will be equivalent to losing at least 5 % of global GDP per annum; J. whereas the production and consumption of biomass as an energy source are not, by definition, carbon-neutral; K. whereas the social aspects need to be taken into account, by means of the ‘social impact assessment’ instrument, 1. Recognises the benefits to Member States, and, where appropriate, to their regions, of developing a low carbon economy; therefore endorses the Commission’s Roadmap to a competitive low carbon economy in 2050, together with its trajectory, the specific milestones for domestic emission reductions of 40 %, 60 % and 80 % for 2030, 2040 and 2050 respectively, and the ranges for sector-specific milestones, as the basis for proposing legislative and other initiatives on economic and climate policy; recognises that the trajectory and milestones are based on PRIMES modelling with a view to preparing the necessary legislative and regulatory instruments; 2. Calls on the Commission to set interim greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2040, including concrete objectives for each sector, and in particular agriculture, together with an ambitious timetable; considers that these targets should follow a linear trajectory between current emissions levels, the 2020 objective and the 95 % reductions to be made by 2050; 3. Invites the Commission to bring forward within the next two years the measures necessary to achieve the 2030 objectives, taking into account particular national capacities and potentials, as well as international progress on climate action; 4. Considers that measures should be implemented in a coordinated, cost-efficient and effective way, allowing for the specific characteristics of Member States; 5. Calls for greater consistency among Community programmes and policies in order to achieve the Roadmap’s objectives and ensure that its priorities are fully integrated in the new 2014-2020 Multiannual Financial Framework; acknowledges that delivering the 20 % energy efficiency target would allow the EU to reduce its internal