strong appeal for the abolition of capital punishment, – having regard to the final declaration adopted by the 4th World Congress against the Death Penalty, held in Geneva from 24 to 26 February 2010, which calls for universal abolition of the death penalty, – having regard to Article 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, - having regard to the Council conclusions adopted on 16 November 2009 on freedom of religion or belief in which it underlines the strategic importance of this freedom and of countering religious intolerance, - having regard to the 1981 UN Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination based on Religion and Belief, - having regard to the statements by the EU High Representative Catherine Ashton on Iraq, in particular the one of 1 November 2010 following the attack against worshipers at Our Lady of Salvation Church in Baghdad, Iraq, – having regard to Rule 122 of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas on October 26, 2010 the Iraqi High Tribunal condemned and sentenced to death Iraqi former deputy premier Tariq Aziz, aged 74; B. whereas if the appeal against the sentence is turned down, the death sentence would likely be carried out within 30 days; C. whereas in the previous trial he was sentenced to 22 years in prison in solitary confinement and that the sentence was in fact a life sentence because of ill health of Tariq Aziz, who has suffered in prison several strokes and health problems in the lung and underwent surgery following a blood clot in the brain; D. whereas Iraq's president, Jalal Talabani, stated he will not sign the execution order for Tariq Aziz; whereas under the Iraqi constitution, the president should ratify death sentences, but there are mechanisms for the execution to be carried out through parliament; E. whereas the condemnation to death of Tariq Aziz will do little to improve the atmosphere of violence in Iraq and that Iraq is in dire need of national reconciliation; F. whereas the European Union is strongly committed to working towards the abolition of the death penalty everywhere and is striving to achieve universal acceptance of this principle, G. whereas the death penalty is the ultimate cruel and inhuman and degrading punishment, which violates the right to life as declared in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and is an act of torture unacceptable to states respecting human rights, H. whereas on 22 November 2010 two Iraqi Christians were killed in Mosul; whereas on 10 November a series of bomb and mortar attacks targeting Christian areas has killed at least five people in the Iraqi capital, Baghdad; whereas the attacks come days after Islamist militants seized a Catholic cathedral and more than 40 were killed; I. whereas the safety and rights of all minorities, including religious groups, must be respected and protected in all societies; J. whereas the European Union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to freedom of thought, freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and has stressed that governments have a duty to