be equipped with safety belts. For technical reasons, the three directives proposed must enter into force at the same time. In addition to the main issue of equipping vehicles with safety belt systems, the Commission has also included in the proposal in question a provision prohibiting the installation of side-facing seats in vehicles of categories M 1 , N 1 , M 2 (of class III or B) and M 3 (of class III or B). In its common position, the Council made only a few changes to the Commission's proposal. It defined the different seat arrangements, extended the scope of the directive to include folding seats and postponed the deadlines for entry into force. Parliament's proposed amendments from the first reading focused on the ban on side-facing seats in vehicles of category M 3 (class III or B) and have not been adopted by the Council. Evaluation As was made clear in the first reading, it would be useful to press ahead with fitting vehicles with safety belts as well as extending the requirement to wear safety belts. The fitting of all vehicles with life-saving safety belts, restraint systems and head restraints is welcomed wholeheartedly and is not at all at issue. The rapporteur's concerns relate to just one point in the Commission proposal and now also the common position, as the Council rejected Parliament's amendments on the subject. The newly tabled amendment addresses the ban on side-facing seats in buses belonging to vehicle category M 3 (class III or B) and, therefore, the discrimination against a small group of buses with high-quality fittings ostensibly on the grounds of 'road safety'. The effectiveness of safety belts or the degree to which they are effective depends on the orientation of the seat with regard to the longitudinal axis of the vehicle. The distribution of forces varies depending on whether the accident involves a head-on impact, a side impact (usually as a result of skidding) or a rollover lengthways or diagonally. The belt's effectiveness is therefore particularly dependent on the type of accident. In a head-on collision, the belt is more effective on seats facing the direction of travel than on side-facing seats. It is, however, a completely different scenario for a side-on crash or a vehicle rollover, which is typical of accidents involving M 3 category buses. In this case, the distribution of forces is such that a side-facing seat equipped with a safety belt offers equal or sometimes better protection even than a forward-facing seat. If no risk is seen for passengers on side-facing seats on urban and rural public transport buses, it is surely difficult to claim that seats of this kind present a risk on travel coaches. At this point, it should also be borne in mind that the Commission and the Council do not intend to prohibit side-facing seats in medium and heavy goods vehicles. Any discrimination against the bus sector should be avoided in this respect. The rapporteur will, therefore, continue to insist on his amendment and asks his colleagues for their support in this matter. PROCEDURE