nor in respect of any of the substantive points made to me, is there the slightest reason to suppose that it is not a proper scheme which having been approved by the requisite majorities of the various classes ought to be sanctioned by the Court. I will so order. " Policyholders in general criticised the fact that the FSA recommended policyholders to accept the compromise or even promoted it. Addendum to petition 29/2005 dated 9 November 2005 concerning FSA and FOS; page 2. " The FSA was party to the rush to push the majority of the members of the Equitable to sign up to a flawed compromise, led on by insinuations that, if the compromise were not agreed, The Equitable would collapse, and by the suggestion (which has not been realised) that, if it were agreed, the fund would return to stability. ... Those who did not go along with the compromise that was endorsed by the FSA and withdrew their funds appear likely to end up better off than those who remained. In view of its unequivocal endorsement of the compromise, this should be embarrassing to the FSA, since it is supposed to protect the policyholders' reasonable expectations. A second submission to the inquiry conducted by Lord Penrose into the lessons that can be learned from the Equitable Life debacle - a case study in serial regulatory failure by the government and its agent, the Financial Services Authority; EMAG; 27 March 2003; page 50. " In his statement before the committee, Mr STRACHAN (H4) commented on the FSA's involvement in the compromise: " The Compromise Scheme was undertaken as part of an independent court process under the Companies Act. In that particular process, the FSA had no formal statutory role ". In WE 37 the FSA points out that it " nevertheless encouraged Equitable to go beyond what was required by the Companies Act to ensure that policyholders' interests were protected as far as possible, particularly through the appointment of an independent actuary to opine on the fairness of the proposals ". Furthermore, the FSA " reviewed and assessed the Compromise Scheme proposals being put to Equitable Life's with-profits policyholders to ensure that the interests of all policyholders had been properly taken into account " (WE-CONF 8). In doing so, the FSA took account of the following considerations: " Firstly, that a successful compromise scheme would, in principle, offer the best prospect of stability for Equitable Life and its policyholders. The second – which concerns the fairness issues – was an assessment as to whether there was a fair exchange for the rights and the claims of each group affected. The third consideration was that there should be clear and comprehensive information provided to policyholders and, fourthly, we took account of the independent actuary’s assessment of the proposal " (Mr STRACHAN, H4). The independent actuary stated in his report that " from an actuarial point of view the terms of the Scheme have been established in a fair and reasonable way " (WE-CONF 9 Summary of the Independent Actuary's Report;