raised by complainants, Parliament decided that the allegations made by petitioners are serious enough to warrant an in-depth investigation and set up the Committee of Inquiry in response. Although it does not itself have the power to award compensation to petitioners, Parliament may make any recommendations it deems appropriate in this regard. b.) Regulatory liability under EU law As outlined in Parts II and III of this report, the committee identified several regulatory failures by the UK authorities responsible for the supervision of ELAS. It furthermore concluded that the UK authorities failed to apply properly the standards of prudential supervision laid down in Directive 2002/83/EC. In the comments set out below, we will examine whether the failure by the UK to comply fully with the provisions of the Directive may give rise to claims by aggrieved policyholders for compensation. According to the case law of the European Court of Justice, a Member State which fails to comply with Community law may be liable in damages to a person who has suffered loss as a result. Under the Francovich case law See Joined Cases C-6 and C-9/90 Francovich and others [1991] ECR I-5357; Joined Cases C-46 and 48/93 Brasserie du Pecheur v Germany and the Queen v SS for Transport ex parte Factortame [1996] ECR I-1029; Joined Cases C-178, C-179, C-188-190/94 Dillenkofer and others v Federal Republic of Germany [1996] ECR I-4845, paras 21-24. , the conditions of liability are the following: · the rule of law infringed must be intended to confer rights on individuals; · the breach must be sufficiently serious; · there must be a direct causal link between the breach of the obligation resting on the State and the damage sustained by the injured party. According to ES 3 See pages 98 to 100. , the first condition is automatically met where a Member State fails to adopt implementing measures. Where a Member State enacts implementing measures but they fall short of the requirements of the Directive, the breach is not necessarily serious. In order to determine whether the incorrect transposition amounts to a serious breach, all the circumstances of the case must be taken into account. The factors being material in determining whether the infringement passes the threshold of seriousness are listed by the ECJ in the Brasserie case. These are: the clarity of the rule breached; the measure of discretion left to the national authorities; whether the infringement and the damage caused was intentional or involuntary; whether any error of law was excusable or inexcusable; whether the position taken by a Community institution may have contributed towards the omission; the adoption or retention of national measures or practices contrary to Community law. In its judgment on case C-278/05 (" Robins ") of 25 January 2007, the ECJ recalled that the condition requiring a sufficiently serious breach of Community law implies manifest and grave disregard by the Member State for the limits set on its discretion, the factors to be taken into consideration in this connection being, inter alia, the degree of clarity and precision of the rule