Question for written answer E-000157/2011 to the Council Rule 117 Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) (20 January 2011) Subject: Foreclosures Around 500 000 foreclosures will take place in the Spanish State between 2007 and 2011. In Spain, when a foreclosure takes place the evicted person not only loses their home but must also settle the monetary debt owed to the bank, through the embargo of their salary, current accounts and any other actual or potential assets. Hundreds of thousands of families will thus be evicted from their homes by the same financial bodies which provided them with mortgage loans, often for amounts far above the real market value of the property. At the same time, millions of flats stand empty and serving no social purpose, many of them owned by the same financial bodies. This is a violation of the fundamental right to housing, as well as a contravention of Spanish law and of several international treaties ratified by the Spanish State, including the International Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Spanish Constitution. Spanish law is anomalous on this issue, standing apart from most other EU States, such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Portugal, and this constitutes serious discrimination against Spanish citizens in comparison with other EU citizens. The anomaly with regard to other EU States covers two basic aspects: — Firstly, the only means of settling the mortgage debt allowed by the foreclosure procedure is the auction of the property. If this fails to result in a sale (as currently happens in 90 % of cases) the bank keeps the property at 50 % of its appraised value, leaving the mortgagee to pay the outstanding debt, plus interest and legal costs. This debt does not expire and accumulates further interest. — Secondly, there is no procedure allowing these debts to be paid off in a reasonable manner either through insolvency proceedings (as in Germany) or by means of a consumer code allowing intervention by the authorities (as in France). Under Spanish law, there is no right to a second chance in situations of involuntary and unexpected insolvency, accentuated by the current crisis situation. Does the Council consider that Spain's laws on foreclosure comply with EC law? Does the Council consider that Spain should allow dation in payment in cases relating to primary residences of bona fide debtors, in order to remedy the present social and economic instability in this area?