on innovation, on scientific, technical, economic and social progress" and "Europe thrives on curiosity". Ultimately, "Europe without its outstanding power of innovation would not be the Europe that it is today". With a final quotation from the German writer Peter Prange, Mrs Merkel said "Everything we Europeans have ever achieved, we have done thanks to our internal contradictions, the eternal split in ourselves, the constant to-ing and fro-ing of opinion and counter-opinion, of idea and counter-idea, of thesis and antithesis". Concluding, she asked how Europe had managed, "after innumerable wars and endless suffering" to deal with these conflicts and contradictions within itself and produce something as magnificent as European integration over the last 50 years? Yes, the answer was "tolerance - that is the way we deal with our diversity. Why should it not continue to work for the next 50 years?" President of the European Commission - José Manuel BARROSO 2007 is a crucial year, the European Commission President BARROSO stated at the commencement of his speech to the House. The EU's 50th anniversary, he said, is a time to celebrate past achievements, and to build on those achievements for the benefit of a new generation of Europeans. A generation for whom Europe's original rationale is in the past, but for whom Europe can and does offer so much for the future. It is a happy coincidence, he continued, that the anniversary falls during the German Presidency. Many of the EU's core policies – the euro, cohesion, the internal market, enlargement – owe much to Germany. And after listening to Chancellor Merkel, it is clear that Germany's commitment to Europe remains as powerful as ever. The German Presidency, Mr Barroso stated, offers an opportunity to demonstrate why the European Union matters so much in the age of globalisation. Referring to the forthcoming March European Council, he stated that the Commission's proposals last week on energy and climate change form a central part of the Lisbon agenda for growth and jobs. What must be agreed at the European Council in March, he questioned. Firstly, the strategic goal of agreement by developed countries to cut their emissions by 30% by 2020, essential to ensure that global temperatures exceed pre-industrial levels by no more than 2°C. Europe must continue to lead, he stressed, and to provide an incentive for others to follow. "The leadership comes with the EU commitment now to at least a 20% cut in emissions by 2020; the incentive by making clear that we will go further if others join us. It is, after all, global warming not European warming." Secondly, three pillars to deliver the objectives of sustainable, secure and competitive energy. A single market in practice as well as on paper, to give real choice to EU energy users and to trigger investment. This will require a clearer separation of energy production from energy distribution, and stronger independent regulatory control with a European dimension. The Commission also makes proposals on improved interconnections, on transparency, and on a new Customers' Energy Charter. A 20% target for energy efficiency by 2020,