was party to the decision to fully liberalize capital movements in Greece in 1994 without allowing the drachma to devalue, as was widely expected at the time; then I helped, by means of a stability-oriented monetary policy, to defend the currency successfully against a speculative attack. The significance of this decision is reflected in its many positive effects: first, the lifting of all capital controls was completed without undermining monetary stability; second, the credibility of central bank policy increased, thereby favourably influencing expectations and facilitating the adoption of the exchange rate as a nominal anchor; third, the whole episode contributed to a change in the stance of budgetary policy towards faster fiscal consolidation. ∙ As Governor, I played a key role in the decision for the entry of the drachma into the Exchange Rate Mechanism of the European Monetary System in March 1998, which was accompanied by a devaluation of the currency. That decision, combined with other policy actions which ensured a smooth entry and participation of the drachma in the ERM, had various important consequences: it provided a timely exit from the strategy pursued for three years of unilaterally pegging the exchange rate, when that peg could no longer be sustained, and it placed the Bank’s disinflation strategy within a new institutional framework, which provided additional discipline and enhanced policy credibility. More generally, it marked the beginning of the last phase of Greece’s nominal convergence efforts to achieve price stability and was crucial for the fulfilment of the exchange rate and inflation criteria for the adoption of the single currency. 4. Do you have any business or financial holdings or other commitments that might be in conflict with your prospective duties, and are there any other relevant personal or other factors that need to be taken account of by the Parliament in considering your nomination? I do not have any business or financial holdings or commitments that might be in conflict with my personal duties. I am not aware of any personal or other factors which should be taken into account by the European Parliament in considering my nomination. I am currently on leave from the University of Athens. I intend to perform my duties at the ECB on a full-time basis as specified by its Statute. 5. On the basis of your own experience and philosophy, and in view of the uniquely independent position of the ECB, what do you believe should be the guiding principles for a European Central Banker? A first, general guiding principle for a European Central Banker is to be totally committed to the achievement of the objectives and to the effective performance of the tasks of the ECB and the ESCB, as specified in the Statute. To this end, a second important principle is to act independently from political or other bodies when carrying out his/her tasks. A third principle is accountability to the European public for policy decisions and the performance of duties. A fourth principle, which is related to the previous one, is transparency. Monetary policy decisions must be explained to the public