is based. Amendment 6 Recital 3 a (new) (3a) The Laeken European Council called for a European network to be set up as soon as possible, to promote the training of members of the judiciary and thus improve the degree of mutual confidence felt by people involved in judicial cooperation. Amendment 7 Recital 3 b (new) (3b) Training in national and European judicial and legal systems is needed in all the legal professions involved in ensuring that the administration of justice operates smoothly, in particular European bars and notaries, but there is a specific urgent need to set up a European training network for judges and prosecutors without delay. Amendment 8 Recital 7 (7) This network , the activities of which will initially be confined to matters covered by Article 31 of the Treaty, should be made up of national schools and institutions of the Member States responsible specifically for training professional judges and prosecutors who are members of the judiciary. (7) This network should be made up of national schools and institutions of the Member States responsible specifically for training members of the judiciary and, where appropriate, members of the prosecution services . Amendment 9 Article 2, paragraph 1 1. The Network shall be made up of national schools and institutions of the Member States specifically responsible for training professional judges and prosecutors for the Member States in which the latter form part of the judiciary. 1. The Network shall be made up of national schools and institutions of the Member States specifically responsible for training members of the judiciary and, where appropriate, members of the prosecution services . Amendment 10 Article 2, paragraph 2 2. Each Member State shall appoint up to three training officers to represent it in the Network . 2. The Network shall comprise the training officers from the training centres. If several training officers come from the same Member State, they shall form a delegation . Amendment 11 Article 3, paragraph 1 1. In the areas referred to in Article 31 of the Treaty, the mandate of the Network shall be to foster consistency and efficiency in the training activities carried out by the members of the judiciary of the Member States. 1. The mandate of the Network shall be to foster consistency and efficiency in the training activities carried out by the members of the judiciary of the Member States. Amendment 12 Article 3, paragraph 2, points (a) and (b) (a) further mutual knowledge of the legal and judicial systems of the Member States; (a) further mutual knowledge of the legal and judicial systems of the Member States and the European Union ; (b) develop knowledge and improve the use of European and international instruments in force within the European Union; (b) improve knowledge and use of European and international instruments in force within the European Union; Amendment 13 Article 3, paragraph 2, point (f) (f) provide the European institutions, the judicial authorities of the Member States, members of the European Judicial Network created by Joint Action 98/428/JHA and any other entity responsible for judicial