of contract agents (Article 3b) exists to allow the institutions to continue to function when officials are unavailable (for example staff on maternity, parental or unpaid leave on personal grounds), and to carry out tasks on posts outside of the establishment plan. They replace persons formerly employed as members of the auxiliary staff. By limiting to three years the maximum total duration of successive fixed-term employment contracts in any one Institution, the Staff Regulations give de facto effect to clause 5(1)(b). Such contract agents represent a small proportion (less than 15 %) of the total staff. 1. On 1 January 2008, there were 5 512 members of the contract staff working in the Commission: — 1 823 persons were engaged on fixed-term contracts under Article 3a of the CEOS. After the expiration of their second contract, these persons will usually receive contracts for an indefinite period. — 391 had contracts for an indefinite period and this number will continue to grow given that more people will come to the end of their second fixed-term contract. — 3 298 persons were engaged under Article 3b of the CEOS, for a maximum of 3 years. 2. The Commission can only provide rough figures on the basis of 2007, the first year with proper references for the requested data: — as regards contract staff engaged under Article 3a of the CEOS, it is estimated that around 10 % leave the Commission each year and are replaced by new recruits; — as regards contract staff engaged under Article 3b of the CEOS, it is estimated that around 40 % leave the Commission every year (due to the maximum period of 3 years, the average would be 33 % per year if all stayed for the maximum permitted 3 year term — but they do not) . This figure may vary from one year to the next as some persons leave the Commission before the end of their contract (for example because they find a new job). For 2007, around 1 500 contract members of the contract staff on 3b contracts left the Commission. The place of work of the new contract agents depends on the needs of the service. The Commission has no statistics about the numbers of contract agents performing exactly the same job as a previous contract agent. 3. From 2004 to 2007 inclusive, two members of the contract staff had their contracts terminated before the end period (both in 2007): one due to invalidity and the other one due to dismissal. The total compensation paid was EUR 19 893.00.