but not on the issues mentioned above. Link to the ELAS case Unclear. For further information on this point, see Part III on Regulatory Action. Divergences between the 3LD and implementing provisions : none found. Article 30 - Cancellation period (Articles 15 of 2LD and 35 of CD) Summary of objectives This article requires Member States to have a cancellation period for policyholders of between 14 and 30 days from the time when he/she is informed that the contract has been concluded. Text of the article Article 30 1. In the first subparagraph of Article 15 (1) of Directive 90/619/EEC the words 'in one of the cases referred to in Title III' shall be deleted. 2. Article 15 (2) of Directive 90/619/EEC shall be replaced by the following: '2. The Member States need not apply paragraph 1 to contracts of six months' duration or less, nor where, because of the status of the policy-holder or the circumstances in which the contract is concluded, the policy-holder does not need this special protection. Member States shall specify in their rules where paragraph 1 is not applied.' Comments on UK transposition In its original version, this provision allowed Member States not to provide for a cancellation period only in the case of contracts of six months’ duration or less. Article 30 of the 3LD introduces a second exception, allowing Member States not to provide for a cancellation period when, according to the status of the policyholder or the circumstances in which the contract is concluded, there is no need for this special protection. The provision leaves it up to each Member State to specify the rules stating where, according to the prescribed guidelines, the cancellation period is not applied. The UK transposed this Article into UK legislation via the Insurance Companies (Cancellation) Regulations 1993 and the Insurance Companies (Cancellation No 2) Regulations 1993 subsequently replaced by the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994. Regulation 2 of the Insurance Companies (Cancellation) Regulations 1993 amends section 75 (Statutory notice by insurer in relation to long-term policy) and section 76 (Right to withdraw from transaction in respect of long-term policy) of the ICA 1982. Link to the ELAS case Unclear. For further information on this point, see Part III on Regulatory Action. Divergences between the 3LD and implementing provisions : none found. II.1.3. Relevant articles from other Directives · First Life Directive (1LD), 1979/267/EC Article 18.3 on use of future profits (which became Article 27.4 of the CD) [See also the context of Article 18 3LD on technical provisions, Article 21 3LD on inclusion of assets in technical provisions and Article 25 3LD on solvency.] Upon application, with supporting evidence, by the undertaking to the supervisory authority of the member state in the territory of which its head office is situated and with the agreement of that authority : ( a ) an amount equal to 50 % of the undertaking's future profits ; the amount of the future profits shall be obtained by multiplying the estimated annual profit by a factor which represents the average period left to run