the amount of the bonus as a proportion of the sum assured. Link to the ELAS case This article is inseparably linked to Article 28. The issue in this instance is whether ELAS properly informed policyholders, in addition to the initial pre-contractual information, of changes to their policy conditions, for example concerning updates on the state of their bonuses. To pursue this line of investigation, it is necessary to verify if ELAS did indeed adequately fulfil these obligations and, if it did not, what action, if any, was taken by the conduct of business regulator in each case (UK, Ireland, Germany, etc.). The Directive itself requires only that the policyholder must be informed, inter alia, of “the definition of each benefit and each option” and “the means of calculation and distribution of bonuses”. These requirements are not sufficiently specific. There is powerful evidence to suggest that, from 1998 onwards, ELAS did not adequately disclose the risk posed by guaranteed annuity rates to prospective policyholders with non-guaranteed rates. It is difficult to make the case that this was a breach of the Directive but easy to make the case that there is a need to enhance disclosure requirements for the benefit of policyholders. For in-depth detail, see Part III on Regulatory Action and Part IV on Redress issues. II.1.2. Other articles of the 3LD Article 9 - Supervision of branches established in another Member State (Articles 16 of 1LD and 11 of CD) Summary of objectives This article entitles the home Member State to carry on on-the-spot supervision of branches established in another Member State and previous notification to the competent authorities of the host Member State. Text of the article Article 9 Article 16 of Directive 79/267/EEC shall be replaced by the following: 'Article 16 The Member State of the branch shall provide that, where an assurance undertaking authorized in another Member State carries on business through a branch, the competent authorities of the home Member State may, after having first informed the competent authorities of the Member State of the branch, carry out themselves, or through the intermediary of persons they appoint for that purpose, on-the-spot verification of the information necessary to ensure the financial supervision of the undertaking. The authorities of the Member State of the branch may participate in that verification'. Comments on UK transposition This provision has been transposed into UK legislation by Regulation 45 of the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations 1994, which inserts Schedule 2F to the ICA 1982. Paragraphs 13 and 14 of Schedule 2F modify the power of the Secretary of State to obtain information from insurance companies conferred by section 44 of the ICA 1982, when that power is exercised in respect of an EC company. Section 44 of the Act confers the Secretary of State two types of power: subsection (1) refers to the power to require a company to furnish the Secretary of State with information about specified matters; subsections (2)(a), (2)(b) and (4)(a) refer to the power to require a company to produce books or papers as may be