addition refuse to make payments or may recover amounts already paid, in proportion to the seriousness of the errors, irregularities or fraud. CHAPTER 2 Provisions applicable to contracts awarded by the Community institutions on their own account Article 104 The Community institutions shall be deemed to be contracting authorities in the case of contracts awarded on their own account. Article 105 Subject to Title IV of part two of this Regulation, the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of procedures for the award of public supply, service and works contracts shall lay down the thresholds which determine: a) the publication arrangements referred to in Article 90; b) the choice of procedures referred to in Article 91; c) the corresponding time limits. Article 106 Participation in tendering procedures shall be open on equal terms to all natural and legal persons coming within the scope of the Treaties and to all natural and legal persons in a third country which has with the European Communities a special agreement in the field of public procurement under the conditions laid down in that agreement. Article 107 Where the Multilateral Agreement on Government Procurement concluded within the World Trade Organisation applies, the contracts shall also be open to nationals of the States which have ratified this agreement, under the conditions laid down in that agreement. TITLE VI GRANTS CHAPTER 1 Scope Article 108 1. Grants are direct financial contributions, by way of donation, from the budget in order to finance: a) either an action intended to help achieve an objective forming part of a European Union policy; b) or the functioning of a body which pursues an aim of general European interest or has an objective forming part of a European Union policy. They shall be covered by a written agreement. 2. The following shall not constitute grants within the meaning of this Title: a) expenditure on the institutions' staff, loans and shareholdings, the public contracts referred to in Article 88 and aid paid as macrofinancial assistance; b) expenditure implemented as part of shared, decentralised or joint management within the meaning of Article 53 of this Regulation; c) payments made to the delegatee bodies of the Commission referred to in Articles 54 and 55 of this Regulation and the other Community bodies referred to in Article 185 of this Regulation. CHAPTER 2 Award principles Article 109 1. The award of grants shall be subject to the principles of transparency and equal treatment. They may not be cumulative or awarded retrospectively and they must involve co-financing. 2. The grant may not have the purpose or effect of producing a profit for the beneficiary. Article 110 1. Grants shall be subject to an annual programme, to be published at the start of the year, with the exception of crisis management aid and humanitarian aid operations. This work programme shall be implemented through the publication of calls for proposals save in duly substantiated exceptional cases of urgency or where the characteristics of the beneficiary leave no other choice for a given action. 2. All