(15) In order to ensure the quality of ratings , a credit rating agency should take measures to ensure that the information it use in assigning a rating is reliable. For this purpose, a credit rating agency may envisage, among other elements reliance on independently audited financial statements and public disclosures; verification by reputable third party services; random sampling examination by the credit rating agency of the information received ; or contractual provisions clearly stipulating liability for the rated entity or its related third parties, if the information provided under the contract is knowingly materially false or misleading or if the rated entity or its related third parties fail to conduct reasonable due diligence regarding the accuracy of the information as specified under the terms of the contract . (15) In order to ensure the quality of the rating procedure , a credit rating agency should take reasonable measures to ensure that the information it uses in assigning a rating is reliable. A credit rating agency is not an auditor of data and due diligence by issuers and third parties, but should have in place appropriate and transparent procedures for assessing the quality of data and that the sources that it relies upon justify that trust, such as by way of professional independence or reputation. For this purpose, a credit rating agency may envisage, among other elements reliance on independently audited financial statements and public disclosures; verification by reputable third party services; random sampling examination by the credit rating agency of the information received. Justification There is a need to avoid confusion over the role of rating agencies with respect to the due diligence conducted by other parties and on which the rating agencies rely. What is relevant is for appropriate measures of assessment and for these to be understood through transparency. The final point appears to be liability rather than re-liability. Amendment 1 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (16) It is necessary that methodologies, models and key rating assumptions used by the credit rating agency are regularly reviewed in order to be able to properly reflect the changing conditions in the underlying asset markets. With a view to ensuring transparency, disclosure of any material modification to the methodologies and practices, procedures and processes of credit rating agency should be made prior to their coming into effect, unless extreme market conditions require an immediate change in the credit rating. (16) It is necessary that credit rating agencies establish proper procedures for the regular review of methodologies, models and key rating assumptions used by the credit rating agency in order to be able to properly reflect the changing conditions in the underlying asset markets. With a view to ensuring transparency, disclosure of any material modification to the methodologies and practices, procedures and processes of credit rating agency should be made prior to their coming into effect, unless extreme market conditions require an immediate change in the credit rating. Justification This wording clarifies that it is the task of the credit rating agency to review the