compliance with national systems, to guarantee a level playing field to all SPE, to avoid distortion of competitions, harmful tax competition among MS and opportunistic behaviour (for instance, in terms of transfer of seat). Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) Since a private company ( hereinafter “ SPE ” ) which may be created throughout the Community is intended for small businesses, a legal form should be provided which is as uniform as possible throughout the Community and as many matters as possible should be left to the contractual freedom of shareholders, while a high level of legal certainty is ensured for shareholders, creditors, employees and third parties in general. Given that a high degree of flexibility and freedom is to be left to the shareholders to organise the internal affairs of the SPE, the private nature of the company should also be reflected by the fact that its shares may not be offered to the public or negotiated on the capital markets, including being admitted to trading or listed on regulated markets. (3) Sustainable and steady growth of the internal market requires a comprehensive body of business law tailored to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Since a private company (SPE) which may be created throughout the Community is intended for small businesses, a legal form should be provided which is as uniform as possible throughout the Community and as many matters as possible should be left to the contractual freedom of shareholders, while a high level of legal certainty is ensured for shareholders, creditors, employees and third parties in general. Given that a high degree of flexibility and freedom is to be left to the shareholders to organise the internal affairs of the SPE, the private nature of the company should also be reflected by the fact that its shares may not be offered to the public or negotiated on the capital markets, including being admitted to trading or listed on regulated markets. Justification The recitals should stress explicitly the significance of business law harmonisation for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the growth of the internal market. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (4) In order to enable businesses to reap the full benefits of the internal market , the SPE should be able to have its registered office and principal place of business in different Member States and to transfer its registered office from one Member State to another , with or without also transferring its central administration or principal place of business . (4) Until there is comprehensive body of Community company law, the statute of the SPE should refer to national law in regard to areas such as insolvency, employment, and tax. SMEs, in particular, need to know which law governs those areas. As a matter of clarity and transparency, the relevant law should be the law of the Member State of the SPE’s central administration and principal place of business. Business partners normally expect