agricultural regions, are closed from September until November/December. As a consequence, the children involved miss two to three months of school every year. The response of Uzbekistan, the EU and the rest of the international community The government of Uzbekistan denies the existence of the problem and states that this is a family farm activity. Continued allegations of forced child labour led the Uzbek Government to ratify in 2008 the two ILO conventions on child labour: on Minimal Age of Employment (138), on Prohibition and Immediate Action for Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour (182) and it approved the National Action Plan (NAP) to implement the conventions. Over the years, many international organisations (including those of the UN and ILO) have expressed concerns regarding the use of (forced) child labour in Uzbekistan. However, the Government of Uzbekistan does not allow independent international observers in the country during the harvest season to verify the implementation of the ILO Conventions. The government misses the opportunity to prove numerous reports, stating that claims that forced child labour occurs are wrong. The EU Presidency acknowledged at the ILO this June 'the well-documented allegations and broad consensus among the United Nations bodies, the UNICEF, the representative organizations of employers and workers and NGOs’ about forced child labour in Uzbekistan. Many textile retailers, such as Tesco, Marks and Spencer, Levi Strauss & Co, GAP, C&A, Wal-Mart (USA) have made commitments to address forced child labour in Uzbekistan's cotton industry. The EU is a major importer of Uzbek cotton. According to UNCTAD, for a number of years the EU imported 23% of Uzbekistan cotton. Those figures give the EU the moral responsibility to address the issue of forced child labour. It should use its leverage to improve the fate of the children of Uzbekistan. In line with Article 207(1) of the TFEU, the common commercial policy shall be conducted in the context of the principles and objectives of the Union’s external action and that, pursuant to Article 3 of the Treaty on European Union, it must contribute, inter alia, to the protection of human rights. T he rapporteur is therefore of the opinion that the Protocol cannot be treated as a purely technical agreement, as long as human rights concerns, such as forced child labour, are raised precisely with regards to the cotton harvest . The European Parliament should not allow the economic interest to prevail on the worrying issue of forced child labour in Uzbekistan in the interest of 0.05 % of our textile export with a value of EUR 16.4 million. Initiatives such as the strong statements by the EU (such as the statement by President Barroso on 24 January 2011 in favour of access for an independent monitoring mission to Uzbekistan) are very welcome, as well as the attention for the child labour issue in the context of all EU-Uzbekistan meetings. But there is room for more to be done. ILO access remains essential to establish the facts and to begin working towards a solution for the children of Uzbekistan. The IPEC program of