for minors. Justification Consideration must also be given to accommodating victims who are minors. Amendment 19 Article 16, paragraph 1 1. The residence permit issued on the basis of this Directive shall not be renewed if the conditions of Article 10(2) cease to be satisfied or if a decision adopted by the competent authorities has terminated the relevant proceedings. 1. The residence permit issued on the basis of this Directive shall not be renewed in the following cases : (a) where it is no longer necessary for the purpose of the investigation or of the judicial proceedings to prolong the stay of the third-country national concerned, or (b) where a decision of the competent authorities concludes the proceedings. Amendment 20 Article 16, paragraph 2 2. When the residence permit issued on the basis of this Directive expires ordinary aliens law shall apply. 2. When the residence permit issued on the basis of this Directive expires ordinary aliens law shall apply. If the third-country national concerned submits an application for another type of residence permit, and without prejudice to the relevant rules of ordinary aliens law, Member States shall take into account their cooperation when considering their application. Justification In order to clarify the difference between non-renewal and withdrawal – the latter having the form of a sanction. Amendment 21 Article 17, points (a) to (e) (a) if the holder has actively, voluntarily and in his/her own initiative renewed contacts with those suspected of committing the offences in question, or (a) for reasons relating to the protection of public policy and public security, or (b) if the competent authority believes that the victim's co-operation or complaint is fraudulent or wrongful, or (b) when the victim ceases to cooperate, or (c) for reasons relating to public policy and to the protection of national security, or (c) if the holder has renewed contacts with those suspected of committing the offences in question, or (d) when the victim ceases to cooperate; (d) if the competent authority believes that the victim’s cooperation or complaint is fraudulent or wrongful. (e) when the competent authorities decide to dismiss the case. Justification In order to clarify the difference between non-renewal and withdrawal – the latter having the form of a sanction. Amendment 22 Article 17, paragraph 1 a (new) Should they decide not to renew or to withdraw a third-country national's residence permit, the competent authorities shall assess the risks to that person's safety regardless of whether or not he or she intends voluntarily to return. Justification To enhance the successful use of the Directive and thus of the cooperation of the victim a risk assessment of either voluntary return possibilities or the safety of the victim under a different residence permit must be made. Amendment 23 Article 17, paragraph 1 b (new) A decision taken by the competent authorities not to renew a third-country national's residence permit or to withdraw it may be the subject of an appeal to a court. Justification Since both decisions usually have far-reaching consequences for the persons concerned and, more importantly, since it will