be cleaned up, which would have had consequences in particular for some of the new Member States. During the debate which preceded the vote, some Polish MEPs said that this requirement would be too costly to implement - and their argument prevailed. Parliament had included this requirement at the first reading in March 2004, where a simple majority was required, but at second reading an absolute majority (at least 367 votes) is required to carry amendments, and this was not available. Nevertheless, some amendments were adopted which go further than the Member States proposed. The common position allowed mining waste to be dumped in coastal or inland waters if certain conditions were met, but MEPs voted to ban this in all cases. Before opening a new mining site, companies will have to provide the financial guarantees to cover their obligations under the directive, such as cleaning up and monitoring the site after extraction ends. While in the common position, the Member States wanted to limit this obligation to the site itself, MEPs want it to cover all areas which might be affected by the mining activity. If the Council does not accept Parliament's amendments, the draft directive will have to be considered under the conciliation procedure. Press enquiries: André Riche (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73840 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 40992 Mobile: (32) 0498.983.585 e-mail : envi-press@europarl.eu.int More EU action needed for prevention of natural disasters Motions for resolutions on natural disasters (fires and floods) Doc. B6-0458/2005 , B6-0462/2005 , B6-0466/2005 , B6-0467/2005 , B6-0471/2005 , B6-0472/2005 Vote: 08.09.2005 Parliament opened the plenary session with a minute's silence in memory of the victims of this summer's natural disasters. After a formal statement by President Josep BORRELL on these dramatic events - the forest fires in Portugal, France and Spain, and floods in Austria, Germany, Bulgaria, Romania and Switzerland - MEPs devoted their first debate to the subject. On Thursday they adopted, by a large majority, a resolution making a series of recommendations so the EU can prepare better for extreme weather conditions and take better coordinated action when they occur. Working against climate change Parliament "expresses its solidarity and deepest sympathy" for the victims and considers that "the consequences of these disasters ... call for a genuine commitment at European level." For MEPs, "the Kyoto Protocol continues to be the central tool of the global strategy to halt climate change." They ask the Commission to take steps to ensure respect for the undertakings made at Kyoto and in its follow-up. For information, the Parliament's Environment committee is drawing up a report on climate change ahead of the meeting of the parties to the Convention on climate change which is due to take place in Montreal in December. This report should be put to the vote during the November plenary session. In the present resolutions, MEPs call for the setting up of a European Observatory on drought, desertification, floods and other effects of climate change to ensure a more effective response to these problems. European Civil Protection Corps? During Monday's debate, Environment Commissioner Stavros DIMAS welcomed