law governing the right of civil action in respect of credit rating agencies. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. This Regulation shall apply to credit ratings that are intended for use for regulatory purposes or otherwise by credit institutions as defined in Directive 2006/48/EC, investments firms as defined in Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, insurance undertakings subject to Council Directive 73/239/EEC, assurance undertakings as defined in Directive 2002/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, reinsurance undertakings as defined in Directive 2005/68/EC of the European Parliament and the Council, undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) as defined in Directive [2009/XX/EC] or institutions for occupational retirement provision as defined in Directive 2003/41/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and are disclosed publicly or distributed by subscription. This Regulation shall apply to credit ratings that are intended for use for regulatory purposes by credit institutions as defined in Directive 2006/48/EC, investments firms as defined in Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, insurance undertakings subject to Council Directive 73/239/EEC assurance undertakings as defined in Directive 2002/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, reinsurance undertakings as defined in Directive 2005/68/EC of the European Parliament and the Council, undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) as defined in Directive [2009/XX/EC] or institutions for occupational retirement provision as defined in Directive 2003/41/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and are disclosed publicly or distributed by subscription. Justification The regulation's scope of application must be clearly defined by use for regulatory purposes. The most adversely impacted by too wide a scope will be investors and other users. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. A credit rating agency shall ensure that analysts and persons approving credit ratings shall not be involved in providing the credit rating services to the same rated entity or its related third parties for a period exceeding four years. For that purpose it shall establish a rotation mechanism with regard to those analysts and persons . 4. A credit rating agency shall ensure that analysts who are in direct contact with issuers shall not be involved in providing the credit rating services to the same rated entity or its related third parties for a period exceeding four years. For that purpose it shall establish a rotation mechanism. Justification Conflict of interests for analysts that are in frequent contact with issuers should be prevented. The rating committees are not in direct contact and have valuable sectoral expertise. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The period after which the analysts and persons approving credit ratings may be involved in providing the credit rating services to the rated entity or related third parties referred to in the first subparagraph may not be shorter than two years. The period after