{ "context": [ [ "Macalester College", [ "Macalester College ( ) is a private, coeducational liberal arts college located in Saint Paul, Minnesota, US.", " It was founded in 1874 as a Presbyterian-affiliated but nonsectarian college.", " Its first class entered September 15, 1885.", " Macalester is exclusively an undergraduate four-year institution and enrolled 1,978 students in the fall of 2013 from 50 U.S. states and 90 countries.", " In 2015, \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked Macalester as tied for the 23rd best liberal arts college in the United States, 6th for undergraduate teaching at a national liberal arts college, and 19th for best value at a national liberal arts college." ] ], [ "Jeff Trinkle", [ "Jeffrey C. Trinkle is Professor and former Chair of Computer Science at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York.", " He is known for his work in robotic manipulation, multibody dynamics, and automated manufacturing.", " He has bachelor's degrees in physics (1979) and engineering (1979) from Ursinus College and Georgia Institute of Technology, respectively, and a PhD (1987) from the University of Pennsylvania.", " He has taught at the University of Arizona and Texas A&M University.", " From 1998 to 2003 he was a research scientist at Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, New Mexico." ] ], [ "Melvin Fitting", [ "Melvin \"Mel\" Fitting (born January 24, 1942 in Troy, New York) is a logician with special interests in philosophical logic and tableau proof systems.", " From 1968 to 2013 he was a Professor at City University of New York, Lehman College and the Graduate Center.", " At the Graduate Center he was in the departments of Computer Science, Philosophy, and Mathematics, and at Lehman College he was in the department of Mathematics and Computer Science.", " He is now Professor emeritus.", " His undergraduate degree is from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and his doctorate is from Yeshiva University, both in mathematics.", " His thesis advisor was Raymond Smullyan." ] ], [ "Ursinus College", [ "Ursinus College is a private, independent, coeducational, liberal arts college located in Collegeville, Pennsylvania." ] ], [ "Rensselaer Society of Engineers", [ "The Rensselaer Society of Engineers (RSE) is a social fraternity founded in 1866 at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, NY.", " Originally named The Pi Eta Scientific Society, the organization was incorporated in 1873 in the state of New York.", " Arriving on campus at about the same time as some of the first fraternities, it has remained one of the oldest “local” organizations in the U.S. RSE is the only independent fraternity at Rensselaer.", " They have chosen to remain independent to maintain the freedom to set their own policies and make their own managerial decisions.", " Contrary to what their name may imply, members major not only in engineering, but also in such disciplines as science, management, architecture, and the arts.", " Society members are active in not only campus and local activities, but are also in many national organizations." ] ], [ "Don Millard", [ "Dr. Don Millard (born November 28, 1955) is a Program Director