languages and the time set for the debate on the motions for resolutions to enable Members and political groups to give them due consideration. ANNEX IV Implementing procedures for examination of the general budget of the European Union and supplementary budgets Article 1 Working documents 1. The following documents shall be printed and distributed: (a) the communication from the Commission on the maximum rate laid down in Article 78(9) of the ECSC Treaty, Article 272(9) of the EC Treaty, and Article 177(9) of the EAEC Treaty; (b) the proposal from the Commission or the Council fixing a new rate; (c) a summary by the Council of its deliberations on the amendments and proposed modifications adopted by Parliament to the draft budget; (d) the modifications made by the Council to the amendments adopted by Parliament to the draft budget; (e) the Council's position on the fixing of a new maximum rate; (f) the new draft budget drawn up pursuant to Article 78(8) of the ECSC Treaty, Article 272(8) of the EC Treaty and Article 177(8) of the EAEC Treaty; (g) the draft decisions on the provisional twelfths laid down in Article 78b of the ECSC Treaty, Article 273 of the EC Treaty and Article 178 of the EAEC Treaty. 2. These documents shall be referred to the committee responsible. Any committee concerned may deliver an opinion. 3. If other committees wish to deliver opinions, the President shall set the time limit within which these shall be communicated to the committee responsible. Article 2 Rate 1. Subject to the conditions set out below, any Member may table and speak in support of proposals for decisions fixing a new maximum rate. 2. Such proposals shall be admissible only if they are tabled in writing and bear the signatures of at least forty Members or are tabled on behalf of a political group or committee. 3. The President shall set the time limit for the tabling of such proposals. 4. The committee responsible shall report on these proposals before they are discussed in Parliament. 5. Parliament shall then vote on the proposals. Parliament shall act by a majority of its component Members and three fifths of the votes cast. Where the Council has informed Parliament of its agreement to the fixing of a new rate, the President shall declare in Parliament that the amended rate has been adopted. If this is not the case, the Council's position shall be referred to the committee responsible. Article 3 Consideration of the draft budget - first stage 1. Subject to the conditions set out below, any Member may table and speak in support of: - draft amendments to the draft budget; - proposed modifications to the draft budget. 2. Draft amendments shall be admissible only if they are presented in writing, bear the signatures of at least forty Members or are tabled on behalf of a political group or committee, specify the budget heading to which they refer and ensure the maintenance of a balance between revenue and expenditure. Draft amendments shall include all relevant information on the remarks