He specifically made use of his Member's badge and repeatedly asked to be let through the protective barrier by virtue of his position as an MEP. Although this was denied by Tobias Pflüger, he was also found to have resorted to name-calling, thus insulting the dignity of the two police officers. On 20 October 2005, the Chief Public Prosecutor ( München I area) requested the Parliament to waive Tobias Pflüger's immunity, so that he could commence criminal proceedings against him for the suspected offences of: · insulting behaviour ( Beleidigung ) towards the two police officers, and · if the pending evaluation of the harm caused to one police officer demonstrated that that harm was not insignificant, assault and battery ( Körperverletzung ) On 28 April 2006, the Committee on Legal Affairs (rapporteur: Francesco Enrico Speroni) adopted a report recommending the waiver of Tobias Pflüger's immunity, considering that the case fell under Article 10(1)(a) of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of 1965, that Tobias Pflüger's political activity was not negatively affected, and that there was no evidence of fumus persecutionis. On 16 May 2006, Parliament adopted a resolution waiving Tobias Pflüger's immunity. As from 14 July 2009, Tobias Pflüger is no longer a Member of the European Parliament. On 2 March 2009, the German court (Amtsgericht München) found Tobias Pflüger guilty of two cases of insulting behaviour ( Beleidigung ) and condemned him to a financial penalty The fine amounted to € 12 000 plus costs. . · The charge relating to attempted assault and battery of one of the police officers ( versuchte Körperverletzung) was dropped. · In determining the penalty, the judge expressly took into account as a mitigating factor the fact that the defendant had no previous conviction, and as an aggravating factor the fact that Tobias Pflüger, as a member of Parliament and therefore a representative of the people, committed the offence against both officials, and what is more, in public view (see extract below). On 15 April 2009, the public prosecutor appealed against the penalty imposed on Tobias Pflüger, requesting that it be increased "because the defendant was a Member of the European Parliament and sought to claim privileges in this capacity". The prosecutor therefore asks for the original judgment to be repealed and for the penalty to be correspondingly increased (see extract below). On 5 May 2009, Parliament's plenary announced a request by Tobias Pflüger for the defence of his immunity and privileges "in connection with a procedure currently underway at the Munich public prosecutor's office" and forwarded the request to the Committee on Legal Affairs under rule 6(3) of Parliament's rules of procedure. · Parliament's Rules of Procedure state that the committee "shall not, under any circumstances, pronounce on the guilt or otherwise of the Member nor on whether or not the opinions or acts attributed to him or her justify prosecution, even if, in considering the request, it acquires detailed knowledge of the facts of the case" Rule 7(7). . 2. Relevant extracts -Extract from the judgment of 2 March 2009: "(...) V.