Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (10 August 2010) Transnational cluster cooperation for the benefit of innovative Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) is being supported through a number of Community actions, such as the European Territorial Cooperation objective of cohesion policy (previously the Interreg Initiative), the Regions of Knowledge of the framework Programme for Research and Development as well as the Europe Innova initiative under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP). In addition, an open cooperation platform will be established by the end of 2010 under CIP to facilitate transnational cooperation between clusters from any sector and region. This will help cluster firms, especially SMEs, to develop strategic alliances, expand their business and become more competitive in the global market. In the Euro-Mediterranean area, entrepreneurship development and cluster cooperation is encouraged within the framework of Euro-Mediterranean industrial cooperation coordinated by the Commission. The development of clusters and innovative enterprises, especially SMEs, is one of the guidelines provided by the Euro-Mediterranean Charter for Enterprise, which was adopted in 2004 by Euro-Mediterranean Industry Ministers. Since then, it has been used by Mediterranean partner countries as a reference for their reform agendas. Industry Ministers meet at regular intervals and define priorities for the two years ahead. At their last meeting in 2008, they decided to continue implementing the Charter paying more attention to the needs SMEs. In 2008, an evaluation of the Charter implementation showed that clustering was still limited and needed to be further developed. Hence, since 2008, the Commission has been supporting, the 3-year regional ‘Invest in MED’ programme with a view to encouraging Euro-Mediterranean, foreign direct investments, networks and partnerships. To date, the programme has organised 7 500 Euro-Mediterranean business meetings, identified 931 future enterprise partnerships and observed an overall upward trend in clustering, including in sectors such as maritime shipping, textiles and agri-food. The Commission will continue promoting Euro-Mediterranean industrial cooperation activities including cluster development and is keen to develop good synergies with the future Mediterranean Business Development Initiative.