P5_TA(2001)0311 European Food Authority ***I A5-0198/2001 Proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Authority, and laying down procedures in matters of food safety ( COM(2000) 716 - C5-0655/2000 - 2000/0286(COD) ) The proposal was amended as follows: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C 96 E, 27.03.2001, p. 247. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Title Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council regulation laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Authority, and laying down procedures in matters of food safety Proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority, and laying down procedures in matters of food safety Amendment 209 Recital 1 (1) The free movement of safe and wholesome food is an essential aspect of the internal market and contributes significantly to the health and well-being of citizens, and to their social and economic interests. (1) Safe and wholesome food is the fundamental requirement for the health and well-being of citizens, and for their social and economic interests , and contributes significantly to the proper functioning of the internal market. Amendment 2 Recital 3 (3) The free movement of food within the Community can be achieved only if food safety requirements do not differ significantly from Member State to Member State. (3) The free movement of food within the Community can be achieved only if food safety requirements do not differ significantly from Member State to Member State. These requirements should also apply to food and feed products imported from third countries. Amendment 3 Recital 6 (6) In this regard, water is ingested as other foods, thereby contributing to the overall exposure of a consumer to ingested substances, including chemical and microbiological contaminants. It should therefore be considered to be food, without prejudice to the requirements established in Council Directives 80/778/EEC and 98/83/EC on the quality of water intended for human consumption. (6) In this regard, water is ingested directly or indirectly as other foods, thereby contributing to the overall exposure of a consumer to ingested substances, including chemical and microbiological contaminants. It should therefore be considered to be food, without prejudice to the requirements established in Council Directives 80/778/EEC and 98/83/EC on the quality of water intended for human consumption. Amendment 4 Recital 9 (9) Experience has shown that it is necessary to adopt measures aimed at guaranteeing that only safe food is placed on the market and at ensuring that systems exist to identify and respond to food safety problems in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to protect human health . (9) Experience has shown that it is necessary to adopt measures aimed at guaranteeing that only safe food is placed on the market and at ensuring that systems exist to identify and respond to food safety problems in order to ensure the protection of human health and the proper functioning