consulted, under co-decision, when measures are taken that may alter established priorities in any way. The Transport Committee had underlined the fact that the text under consideration was a compromise. The Green/ALE and GUE/NGL groups had tabled amendments to the common position, in particular with regard to the Annex III, the list of projects. Some of these amendments proposed to delete the proposals for a rail/road bridge over the Strait of Messina. It argued that further strategic environmental assessment and socio-economic cost-benefit was needed for this project, before deciding on whether is was suitable or not to be a priority project. These amendments were, however, rejected (181/309/19). Press enquiries: Ton Huyssoon (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73856 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42408 e-mail : region-press@europarl.eu.int Environment First reading agreement on Linking directive Alexander de ROO (Greens/EFA, NL) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending the Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community, in respect of the Kyoto Protocol's project mechanisms ( COM(2003) 403 – C5-0355/2003 – 2003/0173(COD)) Doc.: A5-0154/2004 Procedure : Codecision (1st reading) Debate : 19.04.2004 Vote: 20.04.2004 Vote Parliament adopted in an important vote related to climate change and the Kyoto Protocol a compromise deal with the Council. The Committee on Environment had - with rapporteur Alexander DE ROO (Greens/EFA, NL) in lead - negotiated a first reading agreement on the so called " linking directive ". This is good news for the environment and good news for European industry as it brings the starting date of the directive forward to January 2005 from 2008. This will enable industry to take advantage of projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in, for example, developing countries right from the start of the EU emissions trading scheme (ET). In the Council, the Coreper has already given the green light to the political level on the compromise. The linking directive will help European industry to make earlier use of the Kyoto "flexible mechanisms": Joint Implementation (JI) and the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). These allow Member States and industries to meet part of the Kyoto targets by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in other countries - developing countries or countries with economies in transition - at lower cost than at home. By stimulating demand for JI credits EU companies and industry will invest in the development and transfer of advanced environmentally sound technologies and know-how. The demand for CDM credits will also be stimulated and thereby developing countries hosting CDM projects will be assisted in achieving their sustainable development goals. The idea is that from the global environmental point of view the place where the emission reduction takes place is of secondary importance provided that real emission reductions are achieved. The key controversial issues between the two legislative bodies were the introduction of a cap on the use of JIs and CDMs and the use of carbon sinks (i.e. forest plantations) and large hydroelectric plants. The compromise backs a position on caps that will allow the Member States to lay down limits themselves for the use of flexible