14. The main points of the IIA are: a) Agreement to provide at least EUR 1 740 million for the period 2007-2013 (i.e. an average of about 250 million per year) b) Special procedure for CFSP expenditure as part of the annual budgetary procedure is maintained. EP and Council will seek agreement on the annual amount for CFSP expenditure and on its allocation to the budget articles set out in the IIA. The amount of expenditure to cover "real predictable needs". c) An amount no higher than 20% of this may be budgeted for emergency measures (unforeseen) d) transmission by Council Presidency of a forward-looking annual report by 15 June, including the financial implications and an evaluation of the measures launched e) Formalisation in the new IIA of the joint consultation meetings. New elements include that Council is represented at ambassador level and that there will at least five meetings per year. f) Maintenance of provisions on quarterly reports and the transmission of financial statements within 5 days following a decision on a CFSP action by the Council. Maintenance of the budgetary structure (see annex 1) Financing of the CFSP 15. The perhaps most important trend relates to the increase of crisis-management operations with both civil and military components. This means that it has become even more important than ever to clarify the financing in this respect. Current situation 16. Civilian missions are/have been financed under the CFSP budget whilst missions with military or defence implications have been funded under the principle of 'costs lie where they fall', that is from Member States. Some costs which are defined as 'common costs' can be managed under the so-called Athena mechanism. 17. The Council believes that the civilian components (financed from the budget) need to be made more flexible and to allow for quicker procedures, including as well the possibility of more effective funding of start-up missions and fact-finding missions. 18. From the Parliament's point of view, it has frequently been pointed out that the number of funding options possible is complex, rarely allowing for the possibility to assess coherence and effectiveness. In short, making political and budgetary analyses difficult. The flexibility of procedures must also be weighed against openness and accountability. 19. The Parliament's report on the main aspects and basic choices of CFSP (Brok report) calls for 'joint costs' of future military operations in the framework of ESDP to be financed from the EU budget, discontinuing the existing arrangement of Member States subsidiary budgets or start-up funds Does the new IIA improve matters? 20. The new IIA does not contain any new "automatic" provisions that would immediately solve the problem. However, the provisions in place, thanks to the continued efforts of the Parliament over the last three to four years, should allow for a new phase of confidence-building between the respective institutions and allow for further progress. 21. According to the text of the joint Declaration of 25 November 2002, the Council shall give ' early warning in the context of the regular political dialogue on CFSP actions which might have important