to generate the major part of the revenue of the group. Amendment 89 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The facilitator shall coordinate the examination of the application submitted by the group of credit rating agencies and ensure that all information necessary to carry out the examination of the application is shared among the competent authorities. deleted Amendment 90 Proposal for a regulation Article 14 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. In case of an application for registration by a credit rating agency the competent authority of the home Member State shall examine the application and prepare an opinion on whether to grant or refuse registration. deleted In the case of an application submitted by a group of credit rating agencies, the competent authorities of the home Member States concerned shall jointly examine the application for registration and shall reach agreement on whether to grant or to refuse registration. Amendment 91 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Within 40 days of receipt of the complete application and before registration, the competent authority of the home Member State shall communicate to CESR a motivated draft registration decision or draft refusal decision. In case of an application submitted by a group of credit rating agencies the facilitator shall communicate the outcome of the joint assessment to CESR. 1. Within 40 days of receipt of the complete application and before registration, the CESR shall prepare a reasoned draft registration or refusal decision. The CESR shall transmit th e draft registration or refusal to the Member States' com petent authorities , informing them of the deadline within which they are required to submit an opinion in regard to the draft registration or refusal . Amendment 92 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Within 15 days of receipt of that communication, CESR shall express its views on the application. CESR may request the competent authority of the home Member State concerned to re-examine the draft registration decision in case it considers that the conditions necessary for the registration as set out in Title II are not met or to re-examine its draft refusal decision in case it considers that the conditions necessary for the registration as set out in this Regulation are met. deleted Amendment 93 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The competent authority of the home Member State shall adopt its decision within 15 days after receipt of the opinion of CESR. In case the competent authority of the home Member State departs from the opinion of CESR it shall motivate its decision. In case no opinion is submitted, the competent authority of the home Member State shall adopt its decision within 30 days after the draft registration decision, as referred to in paragraph 1, has been communicated to CESR. Where a group