Question for written answer E-006862/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Mary Honeyball (S&D) (12 July 2011) Subject: Persistent gender gap within EU institutions According to the Institute of Gender Equality, despite having come a long way towards closing the gender gap in the EU, women still make up only 14 % of ambassadors, 9 % of university deans, 3 % of large company presidents and 2 % of ministers. Women also on average earn EUR 2 an hour less than their male counterparts and do 13 hours more work in the home. Gender inequality remains the most pervasive and intractable form of discrimination across the world, but these levels of inequality absolutely cannot be tolerated within a modern Europe. Given that the EU prides itself upon being a force for gender equality across Europe, it is a shame to note that there is still a large gender gap within its institutions: of particular note, the European Parliament. Although some countries, such as Finland and Sweden, are doing remarkably well in terms of gender parity, there are others, such as Malta, Cyprus, Bulgaria, Italy and Ireland, whose record is less than impressive. To date, Cyprus still has no female MEPS. This dire situation is, more often than not, a reflection of the state of affairs in those countries’ national institutions but, given the EU's role as a precedent-setter, it has a duty to encourage gender parity even where national political cultures shun it. In time this may result in changes, not only at European level but also at national level, for women's involvement. All European institutions are struggling to correct the democratic deficit apparent within EU governance. Ensuring that the Parliament is an accurate representation of the people of Europe is fundamental in this regard. The Commission also cannot fail to be aware of the importance of female participation in the Parliament. It is imperative that women reach parity in the European Parliament: firstly as a political right to representation, secondly to ensure a balanced, gender-sensitive approach to legislation and to act as a role model for other elective bodies. To this end, What is the Commission doing to ensure that gender is taken into account in future European elections? Has the Commission considered taking action against those EU Member States which consistently fail to attempt to involve more women in politics or select them for elective roles?