IE/Waterford Crystal. , E. whereas the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation, 1. Requests the institutions involved to make the necessary efforts to accelerate the mobilisation of the EGF; 2. Recalls the institutions' commitment to ensure a smooth and rapid procedure for the adoption of the decisions on the mobilisation of the EGF, providing one-off, time-limited individual support geared to helping workers who have suffered redundancies as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis; emphasises the role that the EGF can play in the reintegration of the workers made redundant into the labour market; 3. Stresses that, in accordance with Article 6 of the EGF Regulation, it should be ensured that the EGF supports the reintegration of the individual redundant workers into employment; reiterates that assistance from the EGF shall not replace actions which are the responsibility of companies by virtue of national law or collective agreements, nor measures restructuring companies or sectors; 4. Notes that the information provided on the co-ordinated package of personalised services to be funded from the EGF includes a detailed information on the complementarity with actions funded by the Structural Funds, reiterates its call to present a comparative evaluation of these data in its annual reports as well; 5. Reminds that, in the context of mobilising the EGF, not to systematically transfer payment appropriations from the ESF, since the EGF was created as a separate specific instrument with its own objectives and deadlines; 6. Recalls that the functioning and the added value of the EGF should be evaluated in the context of the general assessment of the programmes and other various instruments created by the IIA of 17 May 2006, within the process of the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework mid-term review; 7. Welcomes the new format of the Commission's proposal, presenting in its explanatory memorandum, clear and detailed information on the application, analysing the eligibility criteria and explaining the reasons which lead to its approval, which is in line with the Parliament's requests; 8. Approves the decision annexed to this resolution; 9. Instructs its President to sign the decision with the President of the Council and arrange for its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union; 10. Instructs its President to forward this resolution, including its annex, to the Council and the Commission. ANNEX: DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL of xx May 2010 on mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, in accordance with point 28 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, having regard to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management OJ C 139, 14.6.2006, p. 1. , and in particular point 28 thereof, having regard to Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 of the European Parliament and