but only received an evasive answer (H8 " I was asked if the existence of policies with guaranteed interest rates – GIRs – sold by Equitable Life until 1996 had an impact on the performance of policies without such guaranteed rates; also whether non-GIR policyholders were informed of the possible impact of GIR policies on their investment when they purchased their policies. The Society has a single with-profits fund and it is managed as a whole, allowing for all of the guarantees on all of the different types of policy. I can confirm that all guarantees have been met. Further, the terminal bonus, when it is allocated, allows for the GIRs in GIR contracts " (Mr THOMSON, H8). ). Since this problem is not, however, specific to German or other non-UK policyholders, it is not further explored at this point. d.) Allegations of discriminatory treatment Some policyholders alluded to supposedly discriminatory treatment by Equitable Life of non-UK policyholders. In WE-CONF 19, for instance, a view is expressed that policyholders in Ireland and Germany were discriminated against by the sheer fact that non of them was entitled to the guaranteed annuity rate (because ELAS had stopped offering such policies before the two branches were opened). In relation to this it is alleged that ELAS " started its operations in both countries when (according to the Penrose report) the Equitable was possibly at its weakest " (WE-CONF 19). Another witness referred to the launch of a 'European fund' in Ireland in the year 2000: " This fund had been available in the UK since 1987. Equitable had been trading in Ireland since November 1991 but apparently had never found it appropriate to launch this product on the Irish market until March 2000, just four months before the bubble burst. ... The timing of the launch indicates clearly that the Society was intent on extracting the maximum amount of money from the Irish market and did not [care] about the consequences for Irish people " (WE-CONF 28). Secondly, Irish policyholder Ms KNOWD (H2) complained about different bonuses awarded to Irish and UK policyholders, respectively. As outlined above under point c.), Mr THOMSON explained in both H2 and H8 that there was a separation between ELAS' Irish business, German business and UK business in terms of different series of bonus and notionally earmarked different investments. According to ELAS, " bonus rates have differed between UK and Irish policies from time to time due to the different performance of assets hypothecated to the notional Irish fund " (WE-CONF 5). Ms KNOWD (H2) See also WE-CONF 1 and WE-CONF 13. claimed furthermore that higher " penalties " were " imposed " on Irish policyholders: " In April 2003, the financial adjustment in Ireland was 13.6% and for UK policyholders 11%. The maturity adjustment was 15% in Ireland and 9% in the UK . " In this context, ELAS points out in WE-CONF 5 that in July 2001, when UK with-profits pension policies were reduced by 16%, Irish policy values were not reduced. e.) ELAS information policy Ms KNOWD