Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (13 June 2005) At Community level the issues raised by the Honourable Member have been addressed within the context of the common guidelines on security provisions for joint removals by air, which are attached to Council Decision 2004/573/EC of 29 April 2004 on the organisation of joint flights for removals 2004/573/EC: Council decision of 29 April 2004 on the organisation of joint flights for removals from the territory of two or more Member States, of third-country nationals who are subjects of individual removal orders, OJ L 261, 6.8.2001. . The guidelines are addressed to Member States’ law enforcement authorities and foresee, in Section 3.2, some basic rules concerning the use of coercive measures. It is underlined that all coercive measures shall be proportional and shall not exceed reasonable force. The dignity and physical integrity of the returnee shall be maintained. As a consequence, in case of doubt, the removal operation including the implementation of legal coercion based on the resistance and dangerousness of the returnee shall be stopped following the principle ‘no removal at all cost’. The guidelines ask Member States to forbid the use of sedatives to facilitate the removal without prejudice to emergency measures to ensure flight security. In addition ‘The Hague programme’, adopted by the 4/5 November 2004 Brussels European Council, expressly asked for the establishment of common standards for persons to be returned in a humane manner and with full respect for their human rights and dignity. It called for the submission of a Commission legislative proposal. The Commission is about to respond to this call and to come forward with a formal proposal for a directive. It is intended to provide for clear, transparent and fair common rules concerning return decisions, removal orders, detention and re-entry bans, which seek to keep a balance between the need for an effective return policy and the respect of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the person concerned.