claim proved to be untrue, as EL turned out not to have accumulated any significant reserves in the years of positive market performance to allow for any 'smoothing out'. In a note to policyholders dated 26 January 2000 (WE53), Equitable Life claimed that the negative Court of Appeal ruling would not affect EL's economic risk profile, asserting " there will be no financial impact on the Equitable. The Equitable's solvency and status as an independent mutual are therefore not in question". see WE53, annex F. This point was later reneged in letters to policyholders dated 14 August 2000 (immediately after the House of Lords ruling) and 18 September 2000, where the widespread cuts in with-profit policies were communicated see WE53, annex G and H. . Another false statement appeared in the above-mentioned 26 January 2000 note, claiming that " there will be no impact on bonuses for international business ... as none of the Equitable's international policies contain such guaranteed rates." This point was proved wrong by evidence that all policies, UK and non-UK, were managed in the same fund and there was no separate fund for 'international policies', as claimed by EL. Another allegation of mis-selling and misrepresentation by EL was presented by Mr. NASSIM (WE7) who claimed that the regulators have " deliberately overlooked 'incentivised ignorance' and fraudulent general mis-selling, as despite what the Society told policyholders about the absence of commission fees, it paid its staff an as yet unspecified commission on sales. Nor do we know whether the commission was the same for all the Society’s products, or if it was greater for with-profits products. By refusing to admit or document general mis-selling and non-disclosure, the Society and the authorities have transferred the burden of proof to each individual policyholder ... It is hardly surprising that the FSA has belatedly said that it has conducted its own investigation and found no case for mis-selling by the Equitable, while refusing to publish the evidence." Mr. JOSEPHS (WE69) claimed that "a continuous chain of evidence exists that demonstrates that Equitable set out to create an unlawful and misleading performance record that would survive for at least 15 years, and to use these rigged performance figures as their primary tool to bring in new policyholders and to increase the assets of the Society. However, the measures required to create the false performance figures also undermined the security of EL’s finances, so that the longer the deceptions continued, the greater was the scale of policyholders’ losses ... E quitable decided to create a favourable and continuing set of performance statistics by the simple device of overpaying specific cohorts of policyholders, whose premiums were received in or prior to the years 1975-1980. This was unlawful since it breached the Directors’ fiduciary duty to deal fairly between groups of policyholders ... They thereby deliberately put the WP Fund into effective deficit over a period of at least four years. No hint of this was given to policyholders ... The mass of policyholders remained in blissful ignorance of the threats overhanging their policies, and strenuous