the Irish branch was subject to prudential regulation by the UK regulator ... and closed to new business in December 2000, at the same time as the UK head office, and has not sold any new policies since then. EL is servicing its remaining Irish policyholders on a cross-border basis under the provisions of the 3LD ... There was no documentary evidence put to us that EL had breached any Irish financial services legislation. " Correspondence between the UK and Irish regulators on record (WE-CONF9) is limited to technical exchanges in 1994 and 1999 relating to changes in the 'EC requisite details ' of EL's Irish branch, which had been operating since 1991 (WE38). Further exchanges happened in 2002, when the FSA informed the DETE Department of Enterprise, Trade and Employment (insurance regulator 1989-2001); the Irish Financial Regulator (ISFRA) was established only on 1 May 2003. of the closure of EL's Irish branch and on its operating under passporting agreements from the UK as of 8 July 2002, joining a solvency certificate. 4f) Misleading advertising on the German and Irish market In early 2000, Equitable Life started an aggressive marketing campaign in Germany to attract more German clients. The BAV identified in EL adverts a misconduct on the ground that such advertisements were misleading in their use of terms such as guarantees, guaranteed terminal bonus, with-profit benefits and final bonus. Relating to this issue, Mr. WEYER representing policyholders' association DAGEV (H3, WE22) supported claims that Equitable Life's adverts were a case for misrepresentation. Two advertisements in particular, published in large German newspapers " Buy German, earn British. High returns consistent with a high degree of security - the ideal savings strategy for German investors first had to be devised " and " 13% returns: ask your insurer why they only give you half " full-page advertisements in " Die Welt am Sonntag ", weekly newspaper, and " Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung ", daily, in February 2000. in February 2000, appeared grossly misleading: one advert ('13%', see picture below) suggested EL granted guaranteed rates twice the German average at that time; the second advert ('Buy German, Earn British') implicitly suggested EL policies were under surveillance of German regulatory authorities, which was clearly not the case for prudential supervision. Questioned on this subject, the German financial regulator (BaFin) representative Dr. STEFFEN reported in H6 that Equitable Life Deutschland (ELD) had stopped the advertisement campaign after prompt intervention by the regulator (at that time still BAV). However, WE-CONF17 shed additional light on this point, showing that the regulator's intervention was quite 'tame' both in timing and effectiveness. A first BAV letter of 12 April 2000 - some six weeks after the adverts had appeared in the press - asked ELD to comment on allegations of improper advertising, repeating its request on 29 May and 4 July 2000. ELD's reply finally came on 17 July 2000, apparently dissatisfying, as BAV had to put additional questions: while the effects of the House of Lords ruling on EL were widely debated in the UK press, BAV wrote again on