views and demonstrate his partiality for all the world to see". These, and others similar statements and assertions, led M Casseli to bring a civil action against Mr Gargani with a view to defend his honour and to request a compensation of Euro 154.937,07 for the damage caused. II. Article 9 of the Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Communities (PPI) Article 9 of the PPI reads as follows: ‘Members of the European Parliament shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties ’. Parliament has consistently taken it as a fundamental principle that immunity may on no account be waived in cases in which the acts of which a Member stands accused were carried out in the performance of his or her political duties or were directly related to such duties Most recently in the case concerning the request for waiver of the immunity of Mogens N.J. Camre, decision of 1 July 2003 (2003/2249(IMM)) and the request for defence of parliamentary immunity submitted by Jannis Sakellariou, decision of 29 September 2003 (2003/2023(IMM)) . Although the case in point relates to the defence of parliamentary immunity, the same principles must apply. In accordance with those principles, your rapporteur notes that, when he made the statements incorporated in the article published by "Il Giornale" on 10 August 2003, Mr Giuseppe Gargani was exercising his freedom of speech in connection with the performance of his duties as a Member of Parliament. The statements must be seen in the political context of the current political controversy between some part of the judiciary and a part of the political establishment and relate to a matter of genuine public importance and interest. The right to make such statements is central to the role of a Member elected by the people. The level of damages claimed (roughly EUR 150 000) is clearly intended to be punitive. Damages whose primary purpose is punitive are generally awarded to the victim of a wrongful act. In US law, the focus is on the deterrent nature of punitive damages: the aim is to discourage the perpetrator from repeating the act which prompted the damages award and potential imitators from perpetrating such an act for the first time. Given that, in recent years, this legal instrument has increasingly become an established part of the legal systems of the EU Member States, through the recognition and enforcement of foreign court judgements, such as those handed down in the USA, there is every possibility that it will be used as a roundabout means of taking legal action against Members in a manner similar to criminal proceedings. The level of damages claimed makes it clear that the aim is to ‘punish’ the Member. The applicant has made no attempt whatsoever to claim damages in respect of a material loss. For the reasons set out above, and in the light of the courts’ increasing willingness, as seen in recent years, to award punitive damages,