8 th May 2003 in Hungary (33 victims), on 18 th May 2003 in Lyon (28 victims), the chairman of the EP's Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, Mr Caveri, tabled a resolution ( B5-0338/2003 ) on behalf of this Committee, asking in its paragraph 6 the Commission to make legislative proposals to modify directives 77/541/EEC, 74/408/EEC and 75/115/EEC in the sense to render mandatory the installation of safety belts in coaches and in paragraph 7 the mandatory use of safety belts in tourist coaches. · With this last request the EP stimulated a legislative process which was already under way, i.e. the modification of Directive 91/671/EEC for which Mrs Hedkvist Petersen was the RETT committee's rapporteur. By adopting this report in second reading, the EP agreed with the Council as a matter of principle on the mandatory use of safety belts wherever they are installed. · The next step is now to extend the number of vehicle categories where safety belts have to be installed and thus will have to be used. Moreover, their fixations (anchorages) have to comply with stricter requirements because, unlike safety belts in passenger cars which are fixed on the chassis of the car, safety belts in buses are fixed to the seats which in their turn have to withstand considerable kinetic forces in case of an accident and have to be reinforced accordingly. This is what this coherent package of three proposals is aiming at. · It is important to mention that the provisions contained in this proposal in many Member States are already in force but purely on the basis of national legislation. Consequently, this proposal (see Appendix attached to the Commission text) can be considered as a regularisation on an EU level of an existing situation. · It is equally important to notice that for the M 3 category (class III and B-buses) Member States can grant exemptions for small series of vehicles. This possibility remains unaffected even after the entry into force of these three directives, and provides already the flexibility the EP had been asking for in first reading. 2. The Common position · The Council - changed article 2 of directive 77/541/EEC in which the Commission is asked to examine the possibility to harmonise the requirements for safety belts and restrain systems for disabled people and to present draft measures, if appropriate, - modified the dates for the entry into force of the proposed measures, using "mobile" dates depending on the date of adoption of this directive. · The Council unanimously disagreed with the EP's amendment aiming at allowing side-facing sets with a lap (i.e. 2 point) belt. The Council shares the views of the Commission regarding the danger of side-facing seats in all kinds of vehicles. 3. The rapporteur's comments · The rapporteur takes the view that safety should be the overriding consideration . Until now no satisfactory restraint system for side-facing seats offering the same level of protection as for front or rear-facing seats is on the market. This view is completely in line with the requests made