reconsideration. The rapporteurs proposed that the final vote be postponed in order to give more time to the European Commission in consultations with the Council to reach an eventual compromise. The European Commission proposed that the agency should deal not only with first pillar issues but also third pillar ones such as police and justice cooperation which also includes measures on immigration and counter-terrorism. Several Member States are opposed to this but the MEPs strongly support the proposal of the European Commission. The new agency is scheduled to take over the work of the existing European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia. Like the monitoring centre, the agency will be based in Vienna. Its tasks will include gathering information, giving advice to the EU and its Member States and issuing annual reports on fundamental rights issues. It will also engage in awareness raising. The Finnish presidency wants to have the agency up and running by 1 January 2007. The European Parliament says that as well as fundamental rights issues in the Member States, the agency should also deal with problems in candidate countries and countries with which a Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been concluded. MEPs want the involvement of the European Parliament with the new Agency to be strengthened by being consulted on the five year framework for the agency and on the candidates for the post of Director. They want not only the Council but also Parliament and the European Commission to be able to draw on the technical expertise of the Agency. They add that duplication of activities with the Council of Europe can be avoided through mechanisms to ensure complementarity and added value. To ensure good cooperation with civil society, the European Parliament supports the establishment of a Fundamental Rights Platform which will help the exchange of information and knowledge. They also add that the Agency should have a scientific committee which will consist of eleven independent experts and will guarantee the scientific quality of the work. Member States will have to nominate national liaison officers to guarantee good cooperation with the agency. The European Parliament also wants the deadline for the independent external evaluation of the Agency to be 31 December 2011, rather than 31 December 2009 as originally proposed, and said that the evaluation should include "an assessment of the possible need to modify the Agency's tasks, scope, areas of activity or structure". -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20061010BRI11531 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20061010BRI11531 ITEM-001-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20061010BRI11531 ITEM-003-EN DOC XML V0//EN External relations MEPs condemn North Korean nuclear test in debate with Javier Solana 2006-10-13 - 10:35 In a debate on the recent nuclear test carried out by North Korea, MEPs were unanimous in their condemnation as the test had destabilised the entire region. Nevertheless, divergent views were expressed on sanctions and the effectiveness of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. Javier SOLANA, High Representative for the EU Common Foreign and Security Policy, said that North Korea on Monday morning had