Treaty) requires particular efforts to be addressed to cross-border regions, among others. 2. Purpose of the Commission proposal The Commission proposal forms part of a legislative package of proposed new regulations on the Structural Funds for the 2007-2013 period, comprising a general regulation establishing a set of common rules applying to all the instruments and specific regulations covering the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ESF) and the Cohesion Fund. It also forms part of the package of internal and external instruments relating to cross-border cooperation inside the European Union (European grouping of cross-border cooperation), with candidate countries or potential candidate countries (pre-accession instrument) and with third countries with which the European Union wishes to establish neighbourly relations (European neighbourhood and partnerships instrument). As stated in the explanatory memorandum and preamble to the proposed regulation ( recital 1 of the Commission’s proposal for a regulation ), the purpose of the proposal is to achieve the objective of social and economic cohesion envisaged by the Treaty (Article 158 ECT) and strengthen cross-border cooperation by improving the implementation conditions for actions of cross-border cooperation. The Commission proposal aims to reduce the obstacles and difficulties encountered in managing actions of cross-border, transnational or interregional cooperation within the framework of differing national laws and procedures by creating a cooperation instrument at Community level to allow the setting-up on Community territory of cooperative groupings invested with legal personality to be known as ‘European groupings of cross-border cooperation’ (EGCC), recourse to which will be optional ( recitals 2 and 7, and Article 1, of the Commission proposal) . 3. Assessment by the rapporteur of the main features of European groupings of cross-border cooperation Ø The proposal for a regulation establishing European groupings of cross-border cooperation aims to provide an appropriate framework to facilitate cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation (title, recital 1 and Article 1 of the Commission proposal). Your rapporteur believes that this new instrument should be known as the ‘ European grouping of territorial cooperation (EGTC)’ to reflect the three aspects of the new European territorial cooperation objective proposed by the Commission for the 2007-2013 period: cross-border, transnational and interregional ( amendments 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 20, 22, 24, 27 and 32) . Your rapporteur also considers that the entry into force of the EGTC should not affect the validity of existing agreements, or prevent Member States which wish to do so from negotiating (bilateral or multilateral) cross-border cooperation international agreements (amendment 7) . Ø Composition of the EGCC (Article 2(1) of the Commission proposal): The EGCC can be made up of Member States, regional and local authorities and/or other local public bodies, referred to hereinafter as ‘members’. Your rapporteur considers that, by its very nature, European territorial cooperation will help this instrument to facilitate cooperation between regional authorities and/or local authorities without any intervention by the Member States (amendments 10 and 17) . Ø Your rapporteur would like to stress that the setting up of a EGCC will result in the national public authorities of the Member State