Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (12 December 2005) The Commission is closely following the progression of post-tsunami funding in the Maldives. The World Bank informed the international community as early as February 2005 that there was a shortfall in the pledges received by the Maldives Government. The Commission has had several discussions with the Government of the Maldives on the best way to resolve the situation. The Commission has actively supported the Government of the Maldives’ calls for donors to be more generous. In particular, the Commission raised the issue with Member States as early as March 2005 asking them to pay particular attention to the shortfall in their allocation of assistance. The matter was also raised on several occasions with Members of the Parliament. Despite the Commission's best efforts, the majority of Member States have been unable to divert more assistance to the Maldives. With the shortfall in mind, the totality of the Commission’s post-tsunami assistance for the Maldives is being committed in 2005. As well as humanitarian aid of EUR 2.7 million, the Commission is funding EUR 2 million of reconstruction activities through the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the remaining EUR 14 million through the Government’s Trust Fund, in cooperation with the World Bank. In addition, the Commission’s assistance programme for the Maldives (2007 to 2013) will also target economic cooperation activities to help the country overcome its vulnerability to external shocks. The European Investment Bank, as part of its post-tsunami actions, will provide a global loan facility of EUR 50 million to help the country’s vital tourist industry recover from the damage caused by the tsunami. However, this may not be in place until 2006 as the amendment to the Council decision to allow the European Investment Bank (EIB) to lend money to the Maldives is awaiting an opinion by the Budgetary Committee of the European Parliament. It should also be noted, that the Government of the Maldives is increasingly coming under attack from the opposition Maldives Democratic Party for continuing to spend vast sums on the upkeep of its military and police force at the expense of the country’s reconstruction efforts. Member States are keen to upgrade dialogue with the Maldives to give greater support to the country in its efforts to democratise. Continuing human rights abuses of opponents to the President are still a cause for concern and the Commission will use the leverage of its assistance to continue to dialogue forcefully with the government on these issues.