welcomes also the presentation of a separate instrument on Human rights and Democracy, which requires a modification of the nomenclature of the PDB; cannot accept, however, that a number of the proposed changes reduce transparency for either sectors and/ or regions and will introduce necessary modifications; 28. Is concerned that the expansion of activities in the area of the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) has not been matched by increased democratic accountability and parliamentary scrutiny; proposes budgetary amendments that seek to foster a greater degree of transparency and cooperation in this regard; Heading 5 - administration 29. Is firmly opposed to the approach adopted by the Council in the draft declarations annexed to the draft budget on administrative resources that advocated cutting 200 posts in the EU institutions, principally the Commission, in 2008 and a further 500 posts between 2008 and 2010; 30. Decides to restore the cuts made by the Council on the Commission's administrative expenditure including for the establishment plan in order to allow its proper functioning; however, enters EUR 50 million in the reserve with four conditions as follows: · commitment to carry out a screening exercise before 30 April 2007 providing a mid-term evaluation of its staff needs and a detailed report on the Commission's staffing of support and coordination functions; · commitment to set down an improved procedure in line with the Framework Agreement to include Parliament's legislative and budgetary priorities in its legislative and work programme, allowing a presentation before Parliament in February 2007 of the Union's work programme; · agreement on a joint programme on simplification of the Union's regulatory environment; · commitment to provide a state of play of the review of all outstanding regulations including a report on the Commission's activities to improve the transposition of EU law into national law to ensure that the criteria to strengthen competitiveness are met; 31. Is of the opinion that the European Communities Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) should introduce radical changes in its operating methods in order to offer to the Institutions more quickly a greater number of candidates who are more suited to the Institutions' needs; 32. Takes note of the opinions voted by specialised committees annexed to this resolution; **** 33. Instructs its President to forward this resolution, together with the amendments and proposed modifications to Section III of the draft general budget, to the Council and Commission, and to the other institutions and bodies concerned. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT on context and procedural aspects "If an idea is worth having once, it's worth having twice." Tom Stoppard 1. State of play 1. On 15 December 2005, the 2006 Budget was adopted with the European Parliament’s second reading. It was the last budget of the Financial Perspective 2000-2006. 2. The total level of commitment appropriations amounts to EUR 121 190 million, which represents an increase of 4.5 % over 2005. Payment appropriations increase by 5.9 % to EUR 111 969 million, which represents 1.01 % of EU GNI. Those margins remaining below the 2006 Financial Perspective ceilings are EUR 2 505 million for commitments and