the Chamber. 3. All votes shall be valid whatever the number of voters unless the President, on a request made before voting has begun by at least forty Members, establishes at the moment of voting that the quorum is not present. If the vote shows that the quorum is not present, the vote shall be placed on the agenda of the next sitting. A request for the quorum to be established must be made by at least forty Members. A request on behalf of a political group is not admissible. When establishing the result of the vote, account must be taken, pursuant to paragraph 2, of all the Members present in the Chamber and, pursuant to paragraph 4, of all the Members who asked for the quorum to be established. The electronic voting system cannot be used for this purpose. The doors of the Chamber may not be closed. If the number of Members required to make up the quorum is not present, the President shall not announce the result of the vote but shall declare that the quorum is not present. Paragraph 3 last sentence shall not apply to votes on procedural motions but only to votes on the subject matter itself. 4. Members who have asked for the quorum to be established shall be counted as being present within the meaning of paragraph 2, even if they are no longer in the Chamber. 5. If fewer than forty Members are present, the President may rule that there is no quorum. Rule 150 Tabling and moving amendments 1. Amendments for consideration in Parliament may be tabled by the committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members. Amendments shall be tabled in writing and signed by their authors. Amendments to documents of a legislative nature within the meaning of Rule 40(1) may be accompanied by a short justification. Such justifications shall be the responsibility of the author and shall not be put to the vote. 2. Subject to the limitations laid down in Rule 151, an amendment may seek to change any part of a text, and may be directed to deleting, adding or substituting words or figures. In this Rule and Rule 151 the term "text" means the whole of a motion for a resolution/draft legislative resolution, of a proposal for a decision or of a Commission proposal. 3. The President shall set a deadline for the tabling of amendments. 4. An amendment may be moved during the debate by its author or by any other Member appointed by the author to replace him or her. 5. Where an amendment is withdrawn by its author, it shall fall unless immediately taken over by another Member. 6. Amendments shall be put to the vote only after they have been printed and distributed in all the official languages, unless Parliament decides otherwise. Parliament may not decide otherwise if at least forty Members object. Rule 139 shall apply mutatis mutandis to this paragraph. Oral amendments tabled in committee may be put to the vote unless one of the committee's members objects. Rule