They operated Minnie Creek Brewery here until 1863 when the building was sold at a sheriff's sale to satisfy a judgment against the partners.", " Abram B. Head bought it and sold the building the next year to Michael F. Rick who operated the brewery for 13 years and expanded the building to its present size.", " Rick also lost the building in a sheriff's sale in 1878 to satisfy a judgement against him.", " From 1882 to 1894 Iowa went through is first period of prohibition and it is not certain whether the building has housed a brewery since.", " It has subsequently been transformed into a residence.", " The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1999." ] ], [ "Olympia Brewery", [ "The 1906 Olympia Brewery brewhouse, known locally as \"the Old Brewery\", is located at the base of the Tumwater Falls in Tumwater, Washington.", " Once the manufacturing site for Olympia Beer, the classic Mission Revival structure, designed by prominent local architect Joseph Wohleb, replaced the initial wooden plant constructed in 1896.", " Dedicated in 1906, closed since the advent of Prohibition, this imposing redbrick structure has long served as a landmark for local residents and drivers along Interstate 5.", " A new brewery was built in 1934, uphill from the original brewhouse.", " Brewing operations in a modern plant on the site ended in 2003." ] ], [ "Samuel Smith Brewery", [ "Samuel Smith's Old Brewery, popularly known as Samuel Smith's or Sam Smith's, is an independent British brewery in Tadcaster, North Yorkshire, England.", " It is Yorkshire's oldest brewery, founded in 1758." ] ], [ "Old Brewery Quarter", [ "The Old Brewery Quarter, also known simply as the Brewery Quarter, is a modern mixed-use development in the centre of Cardiff, Wales, on the site of the original Brains Brewery, with entrances on St. Mary's Street and Caroline Street.", " S. A. Brain bought the land in 1882 but the site was already known as the \"Old Brewery\", the first such establishment on the site dating back to 1713." ] ], [ "Old Brewery Mission", [ "The Old Brewery Mission is the largest resource for homeless men in Quebec and for homeless women in Canada.", " Founded in 1889, it provides a wide range of emergency, transition, health and housing programs and helps over 4,000 homeless men and women every year to rebuild their lives.", " The Old Brewery Mission Foundation is committed to raising funds from private sources exclusively in support of the Old Brewery Mission." ] ], [ "San Jose Assembly Plant", [ "The Ford Motor Company San Jose Assembly Plant was the automaker's primary Northern California manufacturing site after World War II from 1955–1983, replacing the Richmond Assembly facility.", " The plant was located in what is now Milpitas, California, United States.", " Numerous vehicles were produced at the plant including the Ford Falcon, Ford Maverick and Ford Mustang.", " It was also the manufacturing location for the West coast of the Ford Fairlane, Ford Torino, Ford Pinto, Ford Escort