Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (16 May 2007) The Commission thanks the Honourable Member for his written question, which raises two important, though distinct, issues in the Honduran context. The first one relates to the poor record of the Honduran authorities in investigating criminal acts, especially those concerning environmental activists, and the general perception of impunity that still characterises the judiciary in this country. The second one refers to the rather piecemeal nature of the stated reform policy as regards forestry. The Commission largely concurs with the Honourable Member's assessment and wishes to hereby reassure him that the Commission is both aware of these shortcomings and committed to addressing them as part of its new cooperation strategy with Honduras (2007‑13), by strongly supporting the incipient efforts displayed by the newly elected authorities in both directions. To this effect, these two important subjects (i.e. Public Security and Justice reform and Forestry reform) have been selected as two of the three main priorities that the EC purports to support in the coming years through large-scale and multi-annual cooperation programmes, for which a total amount in excess of EUR 100 million has been earmarked. As the Honourable Member may know, the third priority addresses poverty reduction. Preparatory work has already started with regard to the definition of the reform programme as regards public security and justice, for which the Commission expects to start operations as of end-2007 with a view to stepping up investigation capacities, reducing impunity and improving interinstitutional cooperation in the security/justice sector. As the Honourable Member rightly underlines, the national plan for forestry reform remains at an incipient stage. This means that the Commission needs first to consolidate governmental and donors’ efforts towards building up a full-fledged sector strategy before it can seriously set up any large-scale EC financial intervention in this field, hence its decision to contemplate this intervention at a later stage of its cooperation strategy, most probably as of 2010 onwards. As the EC has already launched — or is about to launch — significant assistance projects in the field of natural resources as a whole (protection of watersheds, protection of the Honduran biosphere corridor), the Commission's forthcoming programme should be particularly focused on forestry as such, with a view to achieving a sustainable management strategy of forestry resources in Honduras through better sector governance, legal reform, promoting community forestry and sustainable economic development.