any shortcomings and the implementation of these additional measures. “It is essential to bear in mind that the removal of controls at internal borders requires a high degree of mutual trust among Member States in the existence of effective controls on the external borders, because the security of the Schengen area depends on the rigour and efficiency with which each Member State carries out checks at its external borders”, says the rapporteur. The committee believes that, before the end of 2011, the EU should set a date for applying the Schengen acquis to Bulgaria and Romania. Next steps The opinion on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the Schengen area should be put to a vote by Parliament as a whole at the 6-9 June plenary session, before the Justice and Home Affairs Council of 9-10 June, which is to discuss the issue. The integration decision should be made by the Council, by unanimous decision of all governments of the states which already belong to the Schengen area. The Hungarian Presidency of the Council of Ministers has stated that it will continue to work towards a solution acceptable to all parties concerned, taking into account the concerns voiced by some Member States. Background Schengen co-operation began on 14 June 1985, with the Schengen Agreement, which provided for the abolition of systematic checks at the internal borders of the signatory states and for the creation of a common area, with free movement of persons, and a single external border (with common rules on external border controls, a common visa policy, police and judicial co-operation and the establishment of the Schengen Information System). The five founder members were Belgium, Germany, France, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The Schengen area has since grown to encompass 25 members: the EU countries Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Slovakia, Slovenia and the three associated non-EU countries Norway, Iceland and Switzerland (Liechtenstein should soon become the fourth associated country). At present, free movement is guaranteed within a territory possessing 42,673 km of sea coasts and 7,721 km of land borders, covering 25 countries and 400 million citizens. The committee vote was 33 in favour, and 3 against. In the chair: Juan Fernando López Aguilar (S&D, ES) 20110502IPR18523 Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs Committee EN 1 LINK /activities/committees/homeCom.do?language=EN&body=LIBE -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN