balance between the expectations of consumers, supervisors and insurers. It is crucial that the industry should not lose its appetite for risk because of excessive supervisory obligations. But it is also important that companies are fully aware of the risks they are taking on and accept the corresponding consequences. Within the Solvency II framework, solvency requirements will be based on the company’s risk-profile. An insurer that better controls its risks may then be permitted to hold less capital." (WE73) In brief: the aim of Solvency II is not to increase overall levels of capital requirements but rather to ensure a high standard of risk assessment and efficient capital allocation. This would contribute to increased market transparency and help developing a level playing field across Europe, as a key step in the implementation of a true single market in financial services. In fact, as the capital currently required from insurance companies under Solvency I appears to be inadequately allocated, it led to the strengthening of regulations in a number of Member States, thus creating a patchwork of solvency rules. The new common solvency framework should therefore be based on clear economic principles for the measurement of assets and liabilities, with risk measured on the basis of consistent principles and capital requirements based directly on these measurements. see also 'Solvency II Introductory Guide', CEA 2006 and WE-CONF18 for more specific details Thus, if implemented correctly, the Solvency II framework would have a positive impact on policyholders, giving them better protection by ensuring companies improve their risk management practices and hold appropriate levels of capital. At the same time, it would lead to a more efficient capital allocation across the industry, a lower risk of company failure and, consequently, greater confidence in the insurance business and its financial stability. 12. Questions to be answered Analyzing the EC law provisions as defined by the Third Life Directive in the context of this part of the mandate, the committee had to find answers to the following questions: 1. Were UK supervisory and regulatory bodies effectively created and adequately equipped with staff and resources to fulfil the duties detailed in Article10(3) of 3LD ? 2. What - and when - could the UK regulatory bodies have reasonably been expected to discover in the Equitable Life case, if they had correctly exercised their supervisory and regulatory powers on prudential regulation following provisions detailed in Articles 10 and 13 of 3LD ? 3. Did UK regulators react in a timely and correct manner once problems with Equitable Life became known to them, in particular on spotting and highlighting the risks inherent in GARs, as requested by Article 13(3) of 3LD ? 4. Did the UK regulators and regulators in other Member States concerned correctly supervise the application of conduct of business rules on their territory? Did they assist policyholders addressing complaints to regulators? 5. Was there an appropriate flow of information and concerted action between UK regulators and regulators of other Member States in relation to EL's activities on their territory? II. The UK Life Insurance Regulatory System UK insurance