the regulatory and supervisory framework of life insurance companies in the UK has evolved in different steps, leading to the creation of the single Financial Supervising Authority (FSA), which gained its full regulatory powers only in December 2001. Until then, UK insurance companies that sold long-term investment products were regulated from within two UK Government departments: the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) from 1989-1997, and later HM Treasury (HMT) from 1998 to 2001 HMT contracted out the day-to-day supervision of insurance companies to the FSA, but remained solely competent to exercise the statutory powers under ICA82. , with the technical assistance of the Government's Actuary Department (GAD) The GAD, created in 1919, had no equivalent in other Member States, where actuarial advice was provided to the regulators by either employed or independent actuaries. responsible for the actuarial analysis of company returns and operations, according to a specific mandate ("service level agreements" The service level agreements were revised in 1995 and 1998. ) and which is supposed to signal to the regulator any elements of concern their analysis might have uncovered. It appears, however, that part of the staff responsible for 'day-to-day' prudential supervision of insurance companies migrated from DTI to HMT and later to the FSA, thus providing a measure of continuity in regulatory action and responsibility. 1. Application of Third Life Directive provisions Relating to the practical implementation of prudential and conduct of business supervision by UK regulatory authorities, ES-1 has identified " three different categories of discrepancies between specific domestic regulations and articles of the 3LD, although the nature and number of such discrepancies does not provide conclusive evidence to suggest that UK legislation has violated the letter or the spirit of EC legislation on life assurance undertaking ." Discrepancies mentioned include cases where a) requirements of domestic law went beyond those of the Directive (e.g. the Appointed Actuary); b) requirements which might have infringed provisions relating to the home country control principle (e.g. UK legislation not requiring the Secretary of State to inform the competent authorities of other MS of a decision withdrawing authorisation or restricting a company's freedom to dispose of its assets); c) requirements in relation to the powers of the regulator (e.g. UK legislation permitting the Secretary of State to waive the application of prudential regulations). For further details see ES-1, para.26 and Annex II, table 9. Under Article 10 of the EC Treaty, Member States and their administrative agencies have to act in 'sincere cooperation', in this context specifically imposing on competent national regulatory authorities a duty to exercise supervisory functions with due diligence, although the provisions of 3LD awarded them "considerable discretion as to the appropriate course of action in any given case, i.e. as to when and by what means to intervene in order to prevent or terminate irregularities" (ES-1, para.28) 2. Prudential Supervision Prudential supervision in the life assurance business can be defined as: · Ensuring that companies who are not fit and proper, not appropriately resourced and soundly managed, do not carry on life insurance business · Protecting policyholders against