having regard to Rule 55 of its Rules of Procedure – having regard to the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development ( A7-0161/2011 ), 1. Adopts its position at first reading hereinafter set out; 2. Calls on the Commission to refer the matter to Parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and the Commission. Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) The Commission should have the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 . The elements for which that power may be exercised should be defined, as well as the conditions to which that delegation is to be subject. (3) In order to ensure the proper functioning of the regime established by this Regulation , the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be delegated to the Commission in respect of supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 . It is of particular importance that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level. The Commission, when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the European Parliament. Justification This amendment reflects the "Common Understanding" on practical arrangements for the use of delegated acts (Article 290 TFUE) to be formally agreed on by the Council and the Parliament. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (4) In order to guarantee a uniform application of Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 in all Member States, the Commission should be empowered to adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 291 of the Treaty. Save where explicitly provided otherwise, the Commission should adopt those implementing acts in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EU) No XX/XXXX of the European Parliament and the Council on... (4) In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 , implementing powers should be conferred on the Commission. T hose powers , save where explicitly provided otherwise, should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182 /2011 of the European Parliament and the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers * . ________________________ * OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p.13.. Justification This Amendment takes into account the "Regulation on implementing powers" (Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers) entering into force on 1 March 2011. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation