sales of authorised pesticides are restricted to use only by professional users holding a certificate referred to in Article 5(3) and in accordance with the advice of suitably qualified, competent professionals designated by the Member States . 3. Member States shall require distributors placing pesticides for non-professional use on the market to provide general information regarding the risks and potential adverse health and environmental impacts of pesticide use, in particular on hazards, exposure, proper storage, handling and application, as well as disposal. This shall apply also in the case of sale over the Internet. If the buyer holds a certificate issued pursuant to Article 5(3), it shall be sufficient to produce the certificate in order to purchase pesticides. The measures provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be established not later than ... * Four years after the entry into force of this Directive . 4. Member States shall ensure that existing inspection and enforcement measures are fully implemented to ensure that illegal (counterfeit) pesticides are not offered for sale. Article 7 Information programmes , monitoring and research 1. Member States shall promote and facilitate information programmes and the availability of information intended for the general public relating to the use and risks of pesticides and the potential acute and chronic health and environmental effects arising from their use. In addition, information shall be provided on the role of pesticides in agriculture and food production, responsible use of pesticides , hazards and non-chemical alternatives. 2. Member States shall put in place mandatory systems for gathering information on pesticide acute and chronic poisoning incidents, especially among pesticide operators, workers, residents and any other groups that may be exposed to pesticides regularly. 3. Member States shall regularly monitor and collect information on indicator species exposed to pesticides and on pesticides in the environment, such as in fresh and marine waters, soil and air, and report on this information regularly to the Commission. 4. Member States shall carry out long-term research programmes into specific situations where pesticides have been linked to impacts on human health and the environment, including studies on high-risk groups, biological diversity and combination effects. 5. To enhance comparability of information, the Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, shall develop a strategic guidance document on monitoring and surveying of impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment not later than ... * Three years after the entry into force of this Directive. . Chapter III Pesticide application equipment Article 8 Inspection of equipment in use 1. Member States shall ensure that pesticide application equipment and accessories in professional use shall be subject to mandatory inspections at regular intervals not exceeding five years . For that purpose, they shall establish certificate systems designed to allow the verification of inspections. 2. The inspections shall verify that the pesticide application equipment and accessories are satisfying the essential health and safety and environmental requirements listed in Annex II. Pesticide application equipment and accessories complying with harmonised standards developed according to Article 19 (1) shall be presumed to comply with the essential health