Supports the European Council's approach based on dialogue and the continuation of the six-party talks, and believes that the interests of the people of DPRK are best served with massive international financial and technical support for the development of alternative energy sources in North Korea; Iraq 40. Underlines again the importance of the Council's demand for a strong UN role in the reconstruction efforts in Iraq; 41. Welcomes the arrest of the former Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein, and calls on the US occupying forces and on Iraqi's Governing Council to guarantee fair treatment according to the rule of law; 42. Believes that Saddam's capture offers an opportunity to give impetus to building up an independent Iraqi judiciary on the basis of an inclusive and fully transparent process in keeping with international standards; 42. Recalls that Saddam Hussein, who is responsible for the deaths of tens, if not hundreds, of thousands of people and for the waging of three wars, has been encouraged and supported in his crimes by people and governments and that a fair trial must take such criminal collaboration into account; ESDP 44. Welcomes the adoption of the European security strategy and is satisfied that the term 'pre-emptive' engagement has been replaced by 'preventive' engagement; remains concerned, nevertheless, that it is not specified that the need to increase 'defence capabilities' must involve better spending of existing resources rather than a general increase in military expenditure in the EU Member States; 45. Welcomes the adoption of the EU strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction; urges the Council to make every possible effort to ensure the successful outcome of the upcoming Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference; 46. Calls on the incoming Presidency and the SG/HR to present concrete proposals for the implementation of the European Security Strategy to establish and resource sufficiently an Agency for the control of EU arms exports, as well as a European Peace Building Agency to increase the Union's capacities to make use of civil society actors in conflict prevention; underlines the central role that the European Commission should have in both agencies; 47. Calls on the upcoming Presidency to work hard to convince the EU present and future Member States to accede to the Convention on the prohibition of the use, stockpiling, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and on their destruction in order to allow the European Union to play a full and active part in the First Review Conference on the Convention in 2004 in support of its universalisation, consolidation and full implementation; 48. Remains seriously worried about the lack of parliamentary accountability in ESDP matters and is convinced that in order to promote transparency, no important decisions should be taken by the Council in the field of security and defence without having consulted the European Parliament; 49. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the Member States.