Answer given by Mr Oettinger on behalf of the Commission (1 September 2011) The Commission has followed the developments in Italy concerning the Porto Tolle power plant but remains neutral as regards the decisions of individual Member States regarding their energy mix. However, where Member States decide to make use of fossil fuels for energy production, the Commission clearly favours the use of highly efficient, low-emission combustion and generation technologies. It is in this context that the Commission supports the development and demonstration of Carbon Dioxide (CO 2 ) capture and storage (CCS) technologies as one of the most promising low carbon technologies with the potential to play an important role in meeting the EU's energy and climate targets. To provide further impetus to the demonstration of CCS in Europe, the Commission is co-funding six CCS demonstration projects through the European Energy Programme for Recovery (EEPR). Additional funding for CCS demonstration projects in the EU should soon become available through the New Entrant Reserve of the EU Emissions Trading System (NER300 funding programme). The funding is raised from earmarking the proceeds from EUR 300 million allowances to finance the demonstration of CCS and innovative renewables. A first call for proposals was published in November 2010. The so-called Porto Tolle project is one of the six CCS demonstration projects supported under EEPR and was awarded with EUR 100m of European funding. The Brindisi pilot plant is an integral part of the Porto Tolle project and has therefore benefitted from the funding as well. The Porto Tolle plant is subject to Directives 2008/1/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2008 concerning integrated pollution prevention and control (IPPC) OJ L 24, 29.1.2008. , and 2001/80/EC on large combustion plants (LCP) Directive 2001/80/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2001 on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants into the air from large combustion plants, OJ L 309, 27.11.2001. . The IPPC Directive requires that Member States take the necessary measures to ensure that an integrated permit is issued, containing emission limit values and other permit conditions based on the Best Available Techniques (BAT). The limits set for atmospheric emissions of dust, NO x and SO 2 may not in any case be less stringent than those mentioned in the LCP Directive that sets EU-wide minimum emission limit values for such plants. Finally, the Commission, while keeping job creation and preservation as one of the guiding principles for its policies, is equally not equipped with powers that would allow it to act in the interest of the preservation of concrete employment opportunities or jobs in this particular case.