measures on the basis of the best scientific information; therefore, revised procedures should take into account the Authority's responsibilities and should provide for its scientific and technical assistance in the form of advice in the event of a food crisis. Amendment 26 Article 1, paragraph 1 1. This Regulation provides the basis for the assurance of a high level of protection of human life and health and consumers" interest in relation to food, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. It establishes common principles, definitions and responsibilities, a strong science base, efficient organisational arrangements and procedures to underpin decision-making in matters of food safety. 1. This Regulation provides the basis for the assurance of a high level of protection of human health and consumers" interest in relation to food, whilst ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market geared towards quality and diversity in the supply of food, without therefore penalising typical or traditional products . It establishes common principles, definitions and responsibilities, a strong science base, efficient organisational arrangements and procedures to underpin decision-making in matters of food safety and food quality . Amendment 27 Article 1, paragraph 3 3. This Regulation shall apply to all stages of production and distribution of food and feed. It shall not apply to primary production for private domestic use or to the domestic preparation, handling or storage of food for domestic consumption. 3. This Regulation shall apply to all stages of production , processing and distribution of food and feed products, whether produced within the EU or imported . It shall not apply to primary production for private domestic use or to the domestic preparation, handling or storage of food for domestic consumption. Amendment 28 Article 2, paragraph 2 It includes drink, chewing gum and any substance intentionally incorporated into the food during its manufacture, preparation or treatment. It includes water, without prejudice to the requirements of Directives 80/778/EEC and 98/83/EC. It includes drink, chewing gum , food supplements and any substance intentionally incorporated into the food during its manufacture, preparation or treatment and still present in it . It includes water, without prejudice to the requirements of Directives 80/778/EEC and 98/83/EC. Amendment 29 Article 2, paragraph 3, point (d) (d) medicinal products within the meaning of Council Directive 65/65/EEC (d) substances or products used only as medicinal products within the meaning of Council Directive 65/65/EEC Amendment 30 Article 3, point -1 (new) (-1) "final consumer" means the ultimate consumer of a foodstuff who does not use the food as part of any food business operation or activity; Amendment 31 Article 3, point 1 1. "food law" means the laws, regulations and administrative provisions governing food in general, and food safety in particular, in the Community ; it covers all stages of production and distribution of food, and also feed, where feed may have an adverse effect on food safety; 1. "food law" means the laws, regulations and administrative provisions governing food in general, and food safety in particular, whether at Community or national level ; it covers all stages of production