learning of their employees and to improve the quality of work. Research, Development and Innovation The rapporteur calls for an urgent mobilisation of investment for R&D by 8% per year with an increase of 1% of GDP public investment and 2% of GDP private investment in order to achieve the target to raise investment n R&D to 3% of GDP. Furthermore the rapporteur suggests the urgent mobilisation of a wide range of policies to reinforce the attractiveness and profitability of private sector R&D and education and life long training investments, such as tax incentives, the securitisation of loan pools, risk capital measures and guarantee instruments, with a special focus on seed and start-ups ventures capital for microenterprises and SMEs. Environmentally friendly technology and renewable energy Considering the high political price of Europe's dependence on oil imports, the volatility of oil prices and their negative repercussions on the European economy, it is high time for increased research in renewable energies and commitment to transform this research into economically viable innovation leading to wider use of renewable energy. This could reduce Europe's dependence from oil, safeguard energy supply, protect the environment and eventually trigger an industrial revolution similar to the IT-led industrial revolution in the USA. Europe has lost its initial advance with regards to environmentally friendly technologies and renewable energies, even though the European Council in Göteborg had set itself a strategy for sustainable development underlining the growth and employment potential aimed at unleashing a new wave of technological, innovation and investment. The rapporteur calls for more coherence between the targets set at European level and their implementation at all levels, demanding to put the strategy of sustainable development at the heart of a coherent industrial policy favouring the introduction of new and environmentally friendly technologies such as nano- and bio-, communication-, and other clean technologies, in particular in the field of energy and transport. Special focus should be given to measures supporting their wider use and for projects aimed at transforming research into economically viable innovation. How to finance growth? The knowledge-based society and enlargement requires an increase of investments of up to 3% GDP. The EU budget can serve as a catalyst and already the room for manoeuvre in the current Financial Perspectives should be exploited through fully spending the EU budget and focusing in the next Financial Perspectives all EU funds on promoting growth-enhancing investments. However, most of the investments have to be made by Member States and the private sector. An improvement of the collection of public revenues, focusing on the widespread problem of tax fraud, which deprives Member States of considerable fiscal resources, could bring about a considerable change. Alone in the field of VAT, tax fraud amounts to an estimated 10% VAT receipts and to an estimated 70bn Euro. The rapporteur strongly encourages the Commission to work with the Member States to establish a co-operation and benchmarking system to combat tax fraud and unfair tax competition. Furthermore the European Parliament has repeatedly invited the Member States to redirect their expenditures towards productive investments. A co-ordinated investment in