The approval authority of that Member State shall advise the approval authorities of the other Member States of the measures taken. Justification To give type approval authorities the flexibility to take appropriate action as they consider fit Amendment 17 Article 31, title Parts and equipment which pose a significant risk to the correct functioning of essential systems Sale and entry into service of parts or equipment which are capable of posing a significant risk to the correct functioning of essential systems Amendment 18 Article 31, paragraph 1 1. Member States shall prevent the sale, the offer for sale or entry into service of parts or equipment which are capable of posing a significant risk to the correct functioning of systems that are essential for the safety of the vehicle or for its environmental performance , unless they have been authorised by an approval authority in accordance with paragraphs 4 to 6 . 1. Member States shall permit the sale, the offer for sale or entry into service of parts or equipment which are capable of posing a significant risk to the correct functioning of systems that are essential for the safety of the vehicle or for its environmental performance, only if those parts or equipment have been authorised by an approval authority in accordance with paragraphs 4 to 7 . A list of such parts or equipment shall be established in Annex XIII in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2) , taking account of available information on : 1a. Parts or equipment subject to authorization in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be inserted in the list as established in Annex XIII in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 40(2) . Such a decision shall be based on an impact assessment and strive for a fair balance between the following elements : - the seriousness of the risk to the safety or environmental performance of vehicles fitted with parts and equipment under consideration; and a) the existence of a serious risk to the safety or environmental performance of vehicles fitted with the parts or equipment under consideration; and - the effect on consumers and manufacturers in the after-market of the imposition under this Article of a possible authorisation requirement on parts and equipment. b) the effect on consumers and manufacturers in the after-market of the imposition under this Article of a possible authorisation requirement on parts or equipment. Justification Clearer statement of the listing procedure to be followed and the objectives to be achieved. Amendment 19 Article 31, paragraph 2 2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to original parts and equipment and to parts or equipment which are type-approved in accordance with the provisions of one of the regulatory acts listed in Annex IV, except where the approval r e lates to aspects other than those covered in paragraph 1. However, prov i sions for identifying such parts and equipment when placed on the market may, where appropriate, be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2). 2. Paragraph 1 shall not