which could both consolidate the advances in market access included in the first-stage agreement and offer enhanced regulatory cooperation; 2. Recalls that various aspects of aviation regulation, including noise restrictions and night flight limitations, should be determined at local level, in full compliance with the principle of subsidiarity; asks the Commission to coordinate these issues at European level, taking into account the national legislation of Member States, in order to continue the negotiations with the US and also to solve other issues related to these problems, such as cabotage; Market opening 3. Views with regret the absence of substantive progress in removing outdated regulatory constraints in the area of foreign investment, and considers that this will maintain the current unbalanced restrictions on foreign ownership and control in the United States; 4. Recalls that the final goal of the EU-US Air Transport Agreement is the complete opening of the market without any restrictions from either side; 5. Notes the limited access EU carriers will gain to US government-financed traffic (the ‘Fly America Programme’) and recalls that EU national governments do not have similar provisions; Regulatory convergence , s afety and security 6. Encourages the Joint Committee to develop additional proposals for the mutual recognition of regulatory decisions in line with the principles of better regulation; 7. Attaches high priority to cooperation on the development of the European and US air traffic management systems (‘SESAR’ and ‘Next Gen’) with a view to achieving interoperability and compatibility, as well as contributing to reduced environmental impacts; 8. Welcomes cooperation between the EU and US authorities responsible for the field of aviation safety at all levels; 9. Regrets that no further steps have been taken on the issues of foreign repair stations; 10. Reiterates the importance of the European blacklist of substandard carriers and the US system for monitoring carrier standards, and calls on both parties to share information in this area; 11. Emphasises that the privacy of European and US citizens should be respected when personal passenger data are exchanged between the EU and the US, in accordance with the criteria called for by the European Parliament in its resolution of 5 May 2010; stresses in this connection the urgency of arriving at worldwide standards on data protection and privacy; 12. Stresses that the European Union is based on the rule of law and that all transfers of personal data from the EU and its Member States for security purposes should be based on international agreements with the status of legislative acts, in order to provide necessary safeguards for EU citizens, respect procedural guarantees and defence rights, and comply with data-protection legislation at national and European level; 13. Underlines the importance of legal certainty for EU and US citizens and airlines, as well as the need for harmonised standards for the latter; 14. Notes the importance of consultation and cooperation with respect to security measures but warns against excessive or uncoordinated measures that are not based on a proper risk assessment; 15. Renews its call on the Commission and the US to review the efficiency of