2009, states that the two so-called milestone tests for SIS II are foreseen for the fourth quarter of 2009 and summer 2010 respectively. According to the Council conclusions of 4/5 June 2009 the current SIS II project is being continued, but a contingency plan (SIS 1+RE) is kept in reserve for the period necessary to test SIS II. For those reasons the Commission presented a new package of proposals (COM(2009) 508 and 509) amending the two legal instruments on migration from the SIS I + to the second-generation SIS. Entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon The effect of the entry into force of the new Treaty on 1 December 2010 on this package was as follows: The first part of the package, COM(2009)508, remained pending. It was listed in annex 4 of the "omnibus" Communication of the Commission on "Consequences of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon for ongoing inter-institutional decision-making procedures". The new legal basis under the Treaty of Lisbon is Article 74 TFEU. The procedure remained consultation. The second part of the package, COM(2009)509, lapsed with the entry into force of the new Treaty. The Commission replaced it by an new proposal, COM(2010)15. The legal basis is also Article 74 TFEU, and the procedure consultation. Scope of the proposals 1. Deleting the sunset clauses The conditions for migration will not be met by 30 June 2010. The last sentence in Article 19 of both instruments currently states that they shall expire no later than on 30 June 2010.Therefore, the proposals aim first of all at modifying the sunset clauses of the instruments in order to prevent their expiry. The Commission proposes to delete the sunset clause completely, i.e. not to set date for the expiry of the instruments any more. The fact that the Commission is not able to propose a possible date for the start of operations of the SIS II is inconceivable and raises enormous doubts in the way the project is being managed. 2. Introducing flexibility for developing SIS II via alternative technical solutions According to the Commission proposal the modifications proposed would also cover the case of a switchover from the SIS II project, should it not be completed successfully, to an alternative scenario such as SIS1+ RE. To this end the Commission suggests to modify Article 4 and Article 10 paragraph 3 of the instruments and to introduce the formula "to the extent necessary". These modifications would imply that the so-called converter, a technical element which is exclusively linked to the SIS II project, is no longer considered as a compulsory technical component of the migration architecture. 3. Introducing the Global Programme Management Board (GPMB) Furthermore, the Commission suggests to insert the Global Programme Management Board (GPMB) in the legal instruments, via a new Article 17a. The GPMB is a group of 10 technical experts - 8 from the Member States and 2 Commission officials. It was created in order to better coordinate Commission's and Member States works during the migration process. In its conclusions on the further direction of