IGC over lunch at the recent General Affairs Council, to ensure the collective nature of the IGC was duly reflected. Mr Roche said the presidency was seeking to build a complete picture, with a full understanding of all views and undertaking active dialogue to tease out the nuances of different governments' positions. This would enable them to draw conclusions for their report to the March Council. It was, he said, too soon to speculate on what might be in that report. The presidency was trying to build understanding and find common ground, but could not compel agreement. Agreement would require collective political will. He repeated the words of Mr Ahern at the previous sitting of Parliament: " If it emerges that there is a real prospect of agreement during this presidency, we will not hesitate to seize it ." Mr Roche praised the Convention, which, he said, had brought fresh perspectives to the process of revising treaties. He was pleased that the vast bulk of what the Convention proposed was still standing, including the allocation of competences, the simplification of procedures, incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the proposed EU foreign minister leading to a more coherent and effective approach. The Convention's work remained at the heart of the IGC, but the political reality was that governments had to look very closely at the most sensitive items, especially in the light of referendums and ratification processes ahead. The Italian Presidency, said Mr Roche, had succeeded in resolving most of the points at stake by the time of the Naples conclave. While of course nothing was agreed until everything was agreed, it was essential to maintain and safeguard the excellent progress made up to now. Finally, Mr Roche pledged that the Irish Presidency would be open, fair and balanced in its approach. They had no hidden agendas or pet projects. " We may or may not succeed," he said, "but we will have made every possible effort ." For the Commission, Commissioner Michel BARNIER was of the opinion that it was a case of " better late than never " on the Constitution. He welcomed the progress made by the Irish Presidency stating that they had taken the opportunity to restart the process and to rekindle the spirit of the Convention. The Commission based its strategy on three main points: First, the Commission wanted a wide and overall agreement and the Commissioner stated that nothing had been achieved until everything had been agreed. Second, the Commission broadly supported the draft Constitution as proposed by the Convention but stated that it could be improved in some areas including the composition and functioning of the Commission and extending the scope of qualified majority voting. Thirdly, the Commissioner stated that it was imperative to reach agreement as soon as possible. If agreement could not be reached before the European elections he stated, the draft Constitution could find itself in " never never land ". Finally, the Commissioner stated that it would be necessary for all parties to make a new assessment at the Spring