Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (25 April 2008) The Commission welcomes the cooperation of European railway undertakings in view of providing more commercial offers to passengers wishing to travel cross-border. The Commission is however not involved in the discussions with the railway companies, where particular issues of commercial offers are exchanged and/or negotiated. Hence, it is not in a position to provide further information concerning the commercial decisions of railway undertakings on the questions raised by the Honourable Member. EU passenger rights legislation aims to guarantee a high level of the protection of consumer interests. The Rail Passenger Rights regulation Regulation of Parliament and the Council on International Passengers' Rights and Obligations, OJ C/2004/122/48, Procedure [COM(2004)143 final — 2004/0049(COD)]. More information on the legal process and official documents may be found under: http://ec.europa.eu/prelex/detail_dossier_real.cfm?CL=en&DosId=189475. , to enter into force on 3 December 2009, will offer a set of passenger rights for all railway users throughout the European Union. Besides exemptions that Member States may apply to their regional and urban services, this regulation will be fully applicable to all rail services throughout the EU. Transition periods for specific rights may add up to a maximum of 15 years. Nevertheless, the basic rights such as the non-discrimination of disabled passengers or persons with reduced mobility and liability in case of accidents will enter into force without any exemptions or delays. Another important provision contained in this regulation will oblige railway undertakings to participate in the creation of a computer information and reservation system in order to allow for better information and sales facilities throughout the EU railway net. The European Railways Agency has launched work on this project, in order to have the system available for the entry into force of the Rail Passenger Rights regulation.