entails deleting Recital 4 of the Commission proposal for a decision, the text of which has been incorporated into this new recital.) Justification Equality between men and women is one of the key areas of the fight against discrimination. Amendment 4 Recital 3 (3) Equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the European Union. Articles 21 and 23 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union prohibit any discrimination on grounds of sex and require equality between men and women to be ensured in all areas. (3) Articles 21 and 23 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union set out a prohibition on discrimination on a variety of grounds as well as the requirement that equality between men and women be ensured in all areas. Justification Although not yet legally binding, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is a reference text within the Communities in the area of rights and the fight against discrimination. For that very reason, it has been cited in judgments handed down by the Court of Justice of the European Communities. Moreover, it should be the subject of a separate recital. Amendment 5 Recital 3 a (new) (3a) European legislation on equal treatment and non-discrimination covers all persons in the European Union. Justification The scope of European anti-discrimination legislation is not restricted to Community citizens. Amendment 6 Recital 4 (4) Article 3(2) of the Treaty requires the Community to aim to eliminate inequalities and to promote equality between men and women in all its activities. deleted Amendment 7 Recital 5 (5) The Social Agenda 2005-2010, which complements and supports the Lisbon Strategy, has a key role in promoting the social dimension of economic growth. One of the priorities of the Social Agenda is the promotion of equal opportunities for all as a vector for a more cohesive society. (5) The Social Agenda 2005-2010, which complements and supports the Lisbon Strategy, has a key role in promoting the social dimension of economic growth. One of the priorities of the Social Agenda is the promotion of equal opportunities for all as a means of achieving a more socially inclusive society. Justification In addition to fostering the development of a more cohesive society, in broader terms measures to promote equal opportunities for everyone as a value fundamental to our contemporary societies help to produce a more integrative society, i.e. a society more naturally inclined to adopt an inclusive approach towards its most socially disadvantaged members and/or those who suffer the worst discrimination. Amendment 8 Recital 6 (6) The year 2007 will mark the 10th anniversary of the European Year Against Racism, which has enabled considerable progress to be made towards the elimination of racial discrimination. (6) The year 2007 marks the 10th anniversary of the European Year Against Racism, which has enabled considerable progress to be made towards the elimination of racial discrimination. Amendment 9 Recital 7 (7) European legislation has significantly raised the level of guaranteed equality and protection against inequalities and discrimination across the EU and acted as