P5_TA(2000)0489 Multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship * A5-0267/2000 Proposal for a Council decision on a Multiannual Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship (2001-2005) ( COM(2000) 256 - C5-0274/2000 - 2000/0107(CNS) ) The proposal was amended as follows: Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament (Amendment 1) Title Proposal for a Council Decision on a Multiannual Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship (2001-2005) Proposal for a Council Decision on a Multiannual Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship , in particular for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (2001-2005) (Amendment 2) Recital 1a (new) (1a) The Lisbon and Feira European Councils stressed the importance of giving fresh impetus to Europe's economy against the background of the new economy based on knowledge and new technologies to enable Europe to achieve a very high level of performance. (Amendment 3) Recital 1b (new) (1b) The purpose of the 4th Multiannual Programme must be to promote economic growth, full employment and social cohesion. (Amendment 5) Recital 1c (new) (1c) In order to create a favourable climate for businesses, including small and micro-enterprises, the obstacles hindering completion of the internal market should be systematically removed. (Amendment 6) Recital 1d (new) (1d) It is essential to reduce bureaucracy to a minimum. (Amendment 7) Recital 2 (2) Small and Medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) make a significant contribution in terms of competitiveness, research, innovation and employment and face particular problems ; (2) Small and Medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), micro-enterprises and the craft sector make a significant contribution in terms of competitiveness, research and innovation . They also represent the main source of job creation in terms of both quantity and quality. However diverse they may be, and this is particularly true of enterprises in the third sector, they thus play a crucial role in strengthening social cohesion and regional development. It is therefore urgent to eliminate the many obstacles to their development. (Amendment 8) Recital 2a (new) (2a) The problems of SMEs and craft enterprises are regionally specific, which necessitates adaptation to requirements locally. It would therefore make sense to revise the arrangements concerning the “de minimis” rule. It would be a good idea to raise the balance-sheet total, as high capital investment is often needed in innovative SMEs. The group exemption for SME aid should likewise be revised and its scope widened. (Amendment 9) Recital 2b (new) (2b) The multiannual programme for SMEs must promote equal access to the internal market for all enterprises, taking account of their potential for growth and employment in the context of the global economy. (Amendment 10) Recital 2c (new) (2c) The Commission and the Member States should encourage industry sectors to adopt 'best practice' networks and where appropriate the sharing of pre-competitive research in new product and process technologies. (Amendment 11) Recital 2d (new) (2d) The Commission must take initiatives in logistics and information technology to facilitate access by SMEs to the new e-economy and e-market. (Amendment 12) Recital 2e (new) (2e) The multiannual programme for SMEs must promote measures targeted at specific groups such as women, young people and sectors of the social economy. (Amendment 13) Recital 3a (new)