following definitions shall apply: (1) ‘air emission’ means the physical flow of gaseous or particulate materials from the national economy (production or consumption processes) to the atmosphere (as part of the environmental system); (2) ‘environmentally related tax’ means a tax whose tax base is a physical unit (or a proxy of a physical unit) of something that has a proven, specific negative impact on the environment , and which is identified in ESA-95 as a tax; (3) ‘economy-wide material flow accounts (EW-MFA)’ means consistent compilations of the ▌material inputs into national economies, the changes of material stock within the economy and the material outputs to other economies or to the environment. Article 3 Modules 1. The environmental economic accounts to be compiled within the common framework referred to in Article 1 shall be grouped in the following modules: (a) a module for air emissions accounts, as set out in Annex I; (b) a module for environmentally related taxes by economic activity, as set out in Annex II; (c) a module for economy-wide material flow accounts, as set out in Annex III. 2. Each Annex shall contain the following information: (a) the objectives for which the accounts are to be compiled; (b) the coverage of the accounts; (c) the list of characteristics for which data are to be compiled and transmitted; (d) the first reference year, frequency and transmission deadlines for the compilation of the accounts; (e) the reporting tables; (f) the maximum duration of the transitional periods referred to in Article 8 during which the Commission may grant derogations. 3. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts , where necessary to take account of environmental, economic and technical developments, in accordance with Article 9 : (a) to provide methodological guidance ; and (b) to update the Annexes referred to in paragraph 1 as regards the information referred to in paragraph 2(c) to (e) . In exercising its power pursuant to this paragraph, the Commission shall ensure that its delegated acts do not impose significant additional administrative burdens on the Member States and on the respondent units. Article 4 Pilot studies 1. The Commission shall draw up a programme for pilot studies to be carried out by Member States on a voluntary basis in order to develop reporting and improve data quality, establish long time series and develop methodology. The programme shall include pilot studies to test the feasibility of introducing new environmental economic account modules. In drawing up the programme, the Commission shall ensure that no additional administrative or financial burdens are placed on the Member States and on the respondent units. 2. The findings of the pilot studies shall be evaluated and published by the Commission, taking into account the benefits of the availability of the data in relation to the cost of collection and the administrative burden of responding. These findings shall be taken into account in the proposals for introducing new environmental economic account modules that the Commission may include in the report referred to in Article 11a. Article 5 Data collection 1. In accordance with the