The European Parliament and the Commission consider the following agreements superseded and thus of no effect insofar as they themselves are concerned: the 1988 Plumb/Delors agreement, the 1996 Samland/Williamson agreement and the 1994 modus vivendi OJ C 102, 4.4.1996, p. 1. . 4. Once the appropriate technical arrangements have been made, the documents referred to in Article 7(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC will be forwarded electronically. Confidential documents will be processed in accordance with internal administrative procedures drawn up by each institution with a view to providing all the requisite guarantees. 5. Pursuant to Article 8 of Decision 1999/468/EC, the European Parliament may indicate, in a resolution setting out the grounds on which it is based, that draft measures for implementing a basic instrument adopted by the procedure provided for by Article 251 of the Treaty exceed the implementing powers provided for in that basic instrument. 6. The European Parliament is to adopt such resolutions in plenary; it is to have a period of one month in which to do so, beginning on the date of receipt of the final draft of the implementing measures in the language versions submitted to the Commission. 7. In urgent cases, and in the case of measures relating to day-to-day administrative matters and/or having a limited period of validity, the time-limit will be shorter. That time-limit may be very short in extremely urgent cases, and in particular on public health grounds. The Member of the Commission responsible is to set the appropriate time-limit and to state the reason for that time-limit. The European Parliament may then use a procedure whereby application of Article 8 of Decision 1999/468/EC, within the relevant time-limit, may be delegated to the parliamentary committee responsible. 8. Following adoption by the European Parliament of a resolution setting out the grounds on which it is based, the Member of the Commission responsible is to inform the European Parliament or, where appropriate, the parliamentary committee responsible, of the action the Commission intends to take thereon. 9. The European Parliament supports the aim and the procedures set out in Declaration No 2 of the Council and the Commission OJ C 203, 17.7.1999, p. 1. . That declaration is aimed at simplifying Community implementing arrangements by bringing the committee procedures currently in force into line with those contained in Decision 1999/468/EC. ANNEX XIII Framework Agreement on relations between the European Parliament and the Commission The European Parliament Parliament's decision of 26 May 2005. and the Commission of the European Communities (hereinafter referred to as "the two Institutions"), - having regard to the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty establishing the European Community, and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaties"), - having regard to the Inter-institutional Agreements and texts governing relations between the two Institutions, - having regard to Parliament's Rules of Procedure OJ L 44, 15.2.2005, p. 1. , and in particular Rules 98, 99 and 120 as well as Annex VII, A. whereas the Treaties strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the European Union's decision-making process, B. whereas the two