There would be no drawbacks from the environmental protection point of view as the same modern products would be used even if the sector were subject to two different directives. Amendment 29 Article 13, paragraph 2a (new) 2a. In Annex IIA, point II, in the footnote to the table, the words 'for the vehicle refinishing sector' are deleted. Justification This amendment extends the changes to be made to Directive 1999/13/EC, in line with the Commission's objective, i.e. to avoid overlapping between the two directives. Amendment 30 Article13, paragraph 2b (new) 2b. In Annex IIB, in the second table, the words 'vehicle refinishing' are deleted Justification This amendment extends the changes to be made to Directive 1999/13/EC, in line with the Commission's objective, i.e. to avoid overlapping between the two directives. Amendment 31 ANNEX I, 1 I.1. -Decorative paints and varnishes means products listed in the subcategories below. They are coatings applied to buildings, their trim and fittings, and associated structures for decorative, functional and protective purpose. Products used in the coating of substrates at their original point of manufacture are excluded. I.1. -Decorative paints and varnishes mean all coatings applied to buildings, their trim and fittings, and associated structures for decorative, functional and protective purpose, including the subcategories listed below. Aerosols, wood preservatives, high performance protective coatings and p roducts used in the coating of substrates at their original point of manufacture are excluded. Justification The amendment is meant to make sure that all decorative paints and varnishes – as intended – are covered by the directive, i.e. to avoid any gaps in the coverage of the directive. The amendment makes sure that the listed subcategories are equal to or part of the conception of “decorative paints and varnishes”. Amendment 32 ANNEX I, 1.1 - Subcategory (a) (a) Matt coatings for interior walls and ceilings means coatings designed for application to indoor walls and ceilings with a degree of gloss < 25@60º . (a) Matt coatings for interior walls and ceilings means coatings designed for application to indoor walls and ceilings with a degree of gloss ≤ [below or equal to] 25@60 Justification The amendment is simply to make sure, that gloss = 25 does not fall out of the subcategories a and b. Amendment 33 ANNEX I, 1.1.- Subcategories (d) d) Interior/exterior trim and cladding paints for wood and metal means coatings designed for application to trim and cladding which produce an opaque film. These coatings are designed either for a wood or metal substrate. This subcategory includes opaque woodstains. Opaque woodstains means coatings producing an opaque film for the decoration and protection of wood, against weathering, as defined in EN 927-1 within the semi-stable category . d) Interior/exterior trim and cladding paints for wood and metal, and plastics means coatings designed for application to trim and cladding which produce an opaque film. These coatings are designed either for a wood or metal or plastic substrate. This subcategory includes undercoats and intermediate coatings . Justification This amendment seeks to correct a technical error: the table in Annex II puts opaque wood