of confidential information to the European Parliament 1. Scope 1.1 This Annex shall govern the forwarding to Parliament and the handling of confidential information from the Commission in connection with the exercise of parliamentary prerogatives concerning the legislative and budgetary procedures, the procedure for giving discharge and the exercise in general terms of Parliament's powers of scrutiny. The two Institutions shall act in accordance with their mutual duties of sincere cooperation, in a spirit of complete mutual trust and in the strictest conformity with the relevant Treaty provisions, in particular Articles 6 and 46 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 276 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 1.2. 'Information' shall mean any written or oral information, whatever the medium and whoever the author may 1.3. The Commission shall ensure that Parliament is given access to information, in accordance with the provisions of this Annex, whenever it receives from one of the parliamentary bodies set out in point 1.4. a request relating to the forwarding of confidential information. 1.4 In the context of this Annex, the following may request confidential information from the Commission: the President of Parliament, the chairperson of the parliamentary committees concerned, the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents. 1.5 Information on infringement procedures and procedures relating to competition, in so far as they are not covered by a final Commission decision on the date when the request from one of the parliamentary bodies is received, shall be excluded from this Annex. 1.6 These provisions shall apply without prejudice to Decision 95/167/EC, Euratom, ECSC of the European Parliament, the Council and Commission of 19 April 1995 on the detailed provisions governing the exercise of the European Parliament's right of inquiry OJ L 113, 19.5.1995, p. 2. and the relevant provisions of Commission Decision 1999/352/EC, ECSC, Euratom of 28 April 1999 establishing the European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF) OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 20. . 2. General rules 2.1. At the request of one of the bodies referred to in point 1.4., the Commission shall forward to that body with all due despatch any confidential information required for the exercise of Parliament's powers of scrutiny. In accordance with their respective powers and responsibilities, the two Institutions shall respect: - fundamental human rights, including the right to a fair trial and the right to protection of privacy; - provisions governing judicial and disciplinary procedures; - protection of business secrecy and commercial relations; - protection of the interests of the Union, in particular those relating to public safety, international relations, monetary stability and financial interests. In the event of a disagreement, the matter shall be referred to the Presidents of the two Institutions so that they may resolve the dispute. Confidential information from a State, an institution or an international organisation shall be forwarded only with its consent. 2.2 In the event of any doubt as to the confidential nature of an item of information, or where it is necessary to lay down the appropriate arrangements for it to be forwarded in accordance with one of the options set out in