Reply (27 June 2005) The Honourable Member draws attention to a number of important aspects of the REACH proposal, which is in the process of being examined in the Council as well as in the European Parliament. That examination is far from complete. The Council is at this stage only in a position to give some preliminary answers to the questions raised by the Honourable Member: 1. According to the proposal, phase-in substances are divided into three groups with respect to the last date for registration. Substances produced or imported in quantities of 1000 tonnes or more per year per importer or per manufacturer and substances that are classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction (categories 1 and 2), must be registered within three years after entry into force of REACH. Substances produced in quantities of 100 tonnes or more per year must be registered within six years, and substances produced in quantities of at least one tonne per year per importer/manufacturer must be registered within eleven years after entry into force of the Regulation. The proposed system, although mainly being based on a quantitative criterion, thus already contains a system for an additional prioritisation of substances known to be dangerous. The Council has also considered possibilities for prioritisation according to other criteria. One of these possibilities is to include further categories of substances into the first group, e.g. persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic substances and very persistent and very bioaccumulative substances. When considering alternate systems for prioritisation, workability aspects must be kept in mind. The Council has not yet come to any final position. 2. The Honourable Member points to the risk that some of the information made available by a company in order to comply with REACH could be used by competitors. The proposal explicitly states (Article 23(2)) that registrants are to refrain from exchanging information concerning their market behaviour, in particular as regards production capacities, production or sales volumes, import volumes or market shares. In order to meet the risk of revealing trade secrets the proposal further gives the right to downstream users that so prefer to develop their own exposure scenarios, including recommendations for safe use of their products. The right of secrecy for a producer/importer must be balanced against the right for society to know what risks citizens are exposed to. Finally, all confidentiality-related questions are covered by Article 116 of the proposal, which provides a high level of protection for all those in the supply chain. 3. It is true that imported finished products would not be subject to all the requirements concerning chemical substances which would apply to European products under the REACH system. However, it should be noted that Article 6 of the proposal for a Regulation lays down obligations to register or notify substances in (finished) products. Any system introduced to mitigate this difference between European and imported products must be compatible with WTO rules and enforceable.