Health and safety of pregnant workers Women's rights/Equal opportunities 2010-10-15 - 10:19 MEPs will vote in plenary on a Women's Rights and Gender Equality Committee proposal to prolong maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks on full pay and introduce two weeks' paternity leave. This note summarizes key points at each stage of this legislative proposal. EP Women's Rights Committee MEPs have amended a European Commission legislative proposal to prolong maternity leave to 18 weeks, 6 weeks of which must be taken after giving birth. According to the European Commission, this corresponds to the duration of leave prescribed by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in 2000 to bring about a general improvement in the health and safety of women with children. The duration laid down by the current Directive 92/85/EEC is 14 weeks, two of which must be taken before or after giving birth. As to pay, the European Commission proposes 100% remuneration during the first six weeks of maternity leave. For the remainder of the leave, it recommends granting full pay. The latter is not a binding provision, but the amount paid must no less than sick pay. The legislation aims to establish EU-wide minimum rules. Member States may introduce or retain rules that are more favourable to workers than those laid down in the directive. This European Commission proposal of October 2008 was examined in a Women's Rights Committee report, but when it was put to a plenary vote in May 2009, a majority of MEPs asked that it be referred back to the committee. Rapporteur: Edite ESTRELA (S&D, PT) Procedure: ordinary legislative procedure, first reading Plenary vote: Octobre II, Strasbourg 20101015BKG87328 Women's Rights Committee vote Maternity leave duration and pay, and introducing paternity leave Marternity leave duration and pay, and the idea of introducing paternity leave have been a topic of heated debate in Parliament. On 23 February 2010, the Women's Rights Committee approved a report by Edite Estrela (S&D, PT), with 19 votes in favour, 13 against and one abstention. A majority of committee MEPs proposed that the minimum leave in the EU be prolonged from 14 to 20 weeks, 6 weeks of which must be taken after the birth. They inserted amendments stipulating that this maternity leave legislation also applied to household staff and independent workers. According to the report, workers on maternity leave must get full pay, corresponding to 100% of their last monthly salary or their average monthly salary. Furthermore, Member States must grant fathers the right to fully paid paternity leave of at least two weeks during the period of maternity leave, says the committee report. Until now, there has been no EU legislation on paternity leave. Some committee MEPs opposed this amendment, stressing that paternity leave is outside the scope of the directive, which governs the health and safety of pregnant workers. Leave in specific situations This draft law on maternity and paternity leave should also apply to parents who adopt a child under 12 months old, added MEPs. Furthermore, additional paid leave should be granted in certain situations, such as premature birth,