staff in the relevant EU Delegation and at Headquarters in Brussels. In addition, all projects of minimum EUR 1million are subject to an annual monitoring exercise carried out by an independent external monitor. Projects may also be subject to thorough ad hoc evaluation by independent external evaluators. All project budgets include a provision to finance their external audit. Finally, the European Court of Auditors may decide to carry out an audit. 6. Where the Commission decides to use the clause of confidentiality, it is meant to protect the rights and freedom of the individuals who benefit from, or implement, projects. For instance, a project designed to promote freedom of expression could be classified as ‘confidential’ if implemented in a country whose government does not respect this right. The Commission expects that this approach, duly justified and implemented, can be easily understood by those who cherish individual rights. Mistakes can indeed happen, as was the case this time for Moldova, but, as already indicated, are systematically corrected. 7 and 8. Funding levels for external country assistance programmes financed from the Budget are determined in the multi-annual ‘National Indicative Programmes’ (NIPs), which fix the main priorities (contents) and related budgets of EU aid to partner countries. Prior to adoption by the Commission, they require the approval of the Member States and of the European Parliament. To implement the NIPs and mobilise the funding on a yearly basis, the Commission proposes an Annual Action Programme (AAP) which is developed in a close dialogue and cooperation with the beneficiary country. Member States and the European Parliament are also consulted on the AAP before it is adopted by the Commission. 9. Payments corresponding to these two ‘budget-support’ projects are released only once the partner country has implemented pre-agreed conditions related to the reforms in the targeted sector. The amounts which are actually disbursed depend on an assessment of progress in implementing the reforms (for example, the second disbursement of the Health project amounted to circa EUR 13 million, out of a maximum possible amount of EUR 15 million). Such an assessment is carried out by independent experts and validated by the relevant EU Delegation before being proposed for payment to the recipient government. Steady progress in Public Finance Management (PFM) is also a pre-condition to such ‘budget-support’ programmes. To assess such progress, studies and evaluations of the recipents countries’ public finance management systems are regularly conducted. Finally, the EU also finances projects to improve PFM, and some of the conditions to be fulfilled for the disbursement are usually related to the management of public finance in the targeted sector.