WRITTEN QUESTION E-2682/07 by Avril Doyle (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (24 May 2007) Subject: Transport of horses — maximum and minimum temperatures for means of transport by road carrying certain animals on long road journeys In the context of Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 OJ L 3, 5.1.2005, p. 1. on the protection of animals during transport, the Commission has prepared a draft report on maximum and minimum temperatures for road transportation of animals with a view to introducing legislation. With regards to the transport of horses, I am concerned that the specificities relating to the transport of horses, and in particular registered horses, have not been properly taken into account. Equines are frequently left out of commissioned studies, with ad-hoc, and therefore inappropriate, data based on other farm animal species used in legislation. Arbitrary temperature limits should not be introduced for horses without proper research being undertaken, also taking into consideration the registered-horse industry practice of rugging-up horses in cold weather for travel. Thoroughbred horses are treated with the highest level of care during transport, and their transport conditions cannot therefore be compared to those of slaughter horses, where certainly animal welfare is an issue. Could the Commission please take into consideration the need to allow the registered horse industry a certain degree of flexibility, given the very high standards of transport already applied? This is particularly important in relation to point 8 of the draft report, which states that the temperature of transport should never fall below 0 degrees Celsius, with an exception for loading and unloading of animals. However, after loading, it obviously takes some time for the temperature in a vehicle to rise above 0 degrees. A strict interpretation of this point would hinder the free movement of registered horses throughout Europe and also their movement or export to third countries. I would also ask the Commission to elaborate on the research it has undertaken into equine transport.