Joint answer given by Mr Lewandowski on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-007866/11 , E-007867/11 (12 October 2011) When preparing the 2012 draft budget, which foresees modest increases of 3.7 % over 2011 in commitment appropriations to EUR 147.4 billion, and of 4.9 % in payments to EUR 132.7 billion, the Commission has carried out an in-depth examination of programmes and actions, in particular on the basis of past implementation, as well as performance-related criteria such as expected and demonstrated results achieved. This exercise has enabled the Commission to propose savings with respect to the latest financial programming for 2012, in order to increase the typically very limited margins under the ceilings of the various expenditure headings, with a view to raising the Union's ability to respond to new or unforeseen events in 2012 within the existing financial framework. This is especially true for heading 4 (external actions), for which the Commission has proposed cuts compared to the 2011 budget, notably for the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI — EUR 70 million) and the Industrialised Countries Instrument (ICI+ — EUR 15 million), as well as a number of reductions compared to the financial programming for 2012, which for instance applies to the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA — EUR 60 million) and the Instrument for Stability (IfS — EUR 60 million). Unlike national budgets, the EU budget is not allowed to run deficits. Moreover, the evolution of the EU budget is largely independent from the economic cycle, since most expenditure is pre-programmed in advance. The EU budget operates within a multi-annual financial framework, currently covering the years 2007 to 2013. Accordingly, the 2012 draft budget combines targeted reinforcements of EU policies and priorities with a rigorous approach towards administrative expenditure (heading 5), at a time of austerity measures in Member States. The Commission has made a particular effort by freezing its administrative budget (excluding pensions and European schools), by significantly reducing expenditure linked to buildings, information and communication technology (ICT), studies, publications, missions, conferences and meetings. Furthermore, for the third year in a row, the Commission does not request a single new post. The Commission is of the opinion that the proposed draft budget As modified by amending letter 1/2012, which takes into account the updated needs for the neighbourhood policy in 2012. takes full account of the difficult economic circumstances and provides a solid basis for the budget procedure, which is to be completed before the end of the year.