a result of which the situation of human rights defenders in Iran is growing more and more difficult. 1. Expresses serious doubts as to the legitimacy, transparency and fairness of the trial that resulted in the sentencing of Nasrin Sotoudeh and to the proportionality of the sentence; 2. Calls on the Iranian Parliament to amend the Iranian law allowing the government to deny due-process rights, such as the right of defendants to adequate legal representation; 3. Calls for the immediate release of all those detained by the Iranian authorities for defending human rights within Iran; 4. Continues to be concerned that the human rights dialogue with Iran has been interrupted since 2004 due to a lack of cooperation from Iran, calls on the Iranian authorities to resume this dialogue with a view to ensuring the sustainability of those reforms and consolidate the involvement of all Iranian human rights defenders and civil society representatives in policy-making processes, reinforcing the role played by them in the general political discourse; 5. Remains greatly concerned that Iran has continued to suppress independent human rights defenders and members of civil society, and that serious violations of human rights have persisted, even increased; condemns the arbitrary arrest, torture and imprisonment of human rights defenders for their work, on the charge of "activities contrary to national security"; 6. Reminds the Iranian authorities that in order to develop fruitful relations with the EU, Iran must guarantee fundamental human rights and respect for the principles of democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law, as this is a prerequisite for all countries which maintain political and economic relations with the EU; emphasises that the possible conclusion of a cooperation and trade agreement between Iran and the EU is contingent on respect for these values, 7. Calls on the Commission and Council to devise additional measures in the context of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights and European immigration policy in order actively to protect Iranian human rights defenders; 8. Pays tribute to the courage of all those Iranian citizens who actively seek to defend the human rights of others; 9. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the High Representative, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the UN Secretary-General, the UN Human Rights Council and the Government and Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Iran.