____________________ 1 OJ L 174, 27.6.2001, p. 25. 2 OJ L 168, 30.6.2009, p. 35. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Recital 13 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (13) Increasing the mobility of citizens calls for more flexibility and greater legal certainty. In order to achieve that objective, this Regulation should enhance the parties' autonomy in the areas of divorce and legal separation by giving them a limited possibility to choose the law applicable to their divorce or legal separation. Such possibility should not extend to marriage annulment, which is closely linked to the conditions for the validity of marriage, and for which autonomy on the part of the parties is inappropriate. (13) Increasing the mobility of citizens calls for more flexibility and greater legal certainty. In order to achieve that objective, this Regulation should enhance the parties' autonomy in the areas of divorce and legal separation by giving them a limited possibility to choose the law applicable to their divorce or legal separation. Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14) Spouses should be able to choose the law of a country with which they have a special connection or the lex fori as the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. The law chosen by the spouses must be consonant with the fundamental rights enshrined in the Treaties and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The possibility of choosing the law applicable to divorce and legal separation should not harm the superior interests of the child. (14) Spouses should be able to choose the law of a country with which they have a special connection or the law of the forum as the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. The law chosen by the spouses must be consonant with the fundamental rights recognised in the Treaties and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) Before designating the applicable law, it is important for spouses to have access to up-to-date information concerning the essential aspects of national and Union law and of the procedures governing divorce and legal separation. To guarantee such access to appropriate, good-quality information, the Commission regularly updates it in the Internet-based public information system set up by Council Decision 2001/470/EC. (15) Before designating the applicable law, it is important for spouses to have access to up-to-date information concerning the essential aspects of national and Union law and of the procedures governing divorce and legal separation. To guarantee such access to appropriate, good-quality information, the Commission regularly updates it in the Internet-based public information system set up by Decision 2001/470/EC , as amended by Decision 568/2009/EC . Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15a) If the spouses are unable to agree on the applicable law, they should complete a mediation procedure including at least one consultation with an authorised mediator. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 Text