quality control and assurance and key research on silicone breast implants and their components, and on their clinical evaluation after they are placed on the market, in particular into: - the life span of implants; - better protection of the health of implant recipients; and - full assessment of the health implications and risks; 2. Recommends that implants in women under 18 years of age should be authorised only on medical grounds; 3. Seeks guaranteed marketing control over breast implants to avoid incorrect and misleading information; 4. Underlines the need to facilitate consensus, promotion and support of effective surveillance systems to report adverse effects and long-term effects; 5. Welcomes the fact that the Commission, with a view to addressing the many problems posed, has declared itself in favour of a Community‑wide policy, and has set out in its communication to Parliament the Community and national provisions already applying in this area; 6. Welcomes the fact that the Commission has adopted virtually all of Parliament’s suggestions, particularly with regard to advertising, the information required to be given to patients, the greatest possible guarantees of the quality of implants, and the keeping of national registers; 7. Supports the proposed reclassification of implants as a Class III product under the Medical Devices Directive 93/42/EEC as this will have the welcome effect of reinforcing assessment procedures; 8. Considers silicone breast implants a health priority and requests that funds be made available in the EU research programmes, specifically focusing on the shortcomings of some of the research to date; 9. Considers that labelling of silicone-gel implants should carry warning of potential health risks; 10. Welcomes the Commission proposals to facilitate consensus on a breast implant consent form, including information relating to alternatives, benefits and risks; 11. Believes that all potential patients should have access to free, comprehensive information drawn up by independent experts and points out that doctors and nurses have a particular responsibility to provide reliable, objective, complete and scientifically up-to-date information on all the details of their implants (identification number, volume and type) in writing and in language the patient can understand, and need to be involved after the operation, to facilitate future care; calls on the Member-State authorities to lay down standards for the provision of information; 12. Takes the view that it is necessary to raise general public awareness of the potential risks of silicone-gel breast implants; in particular, women should be aware that in some patients breast implants have to be replaced after a time period that will be different from one person to the other; women, including young women, should be comprehensively and appropriately informed that adverse effects or genotoxic risks in the event of pregnancy or for nursing mothers cannot be completely excluded; 13. Calls for a compulsory annual follow-up examination, the results of which should be made available for research and further development purposes in the interests of patient safety and implant-toleration; 14. Recognises that patients who have already received breast implants may need retrospective information, advice and medical supervision, to screen for cancer and intra- and extra-capsular rupture;