Answer given by Mr De Gucht on behalf of the Commission (12 May 2010) The EU is committed to promoting human rights and respect for fundamental freedoms in Vietnam as elsewhere and is concerned about signs of a more repressive approach to freedom of expression and the media in the country. The issue has been raised at the last round of the EU‑Vietnam human rights dialogue, which took place on 11 December 2009 in Hanoi. On 21 January 2010, the Head of the Delegation of the European Union in Vietnam and all European Ambassadors in Hanoi expressed publicly the strong concern of the EU about the proceedings and the outcome of the trials of the peaceful pro-democracy activists and Internet bloggers held in Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City. In addition, the Commission has carried out several diplomatic démarches to call for measures of clemency in favour of some of these people. It has also encouraged members of the EP Delegation for relations with ASEAN The Association of Southeast Asian Nations. , who visited Hanoi on 15-17 March 2010, to raise these cases. The Commission takes the view that a combination of political pressure and results-oriented cooperation bears the best chance of improving the human rights situation in Vietnam. The Member of the Commission responsible for Trade also highlighted the importance of human rights in his meeting with Prime Minister Dung during his visit to Hanoi in early March 2010 when discussing the prospects of an FTA. The Commission will continue to follow these issues very closely and to raise them with the Vietnamese authorities. The EU aims to establish a coherent policy framework for overall political and economic relations with countries of South East Asia, including Vietnam. To this effect, the EU has engaged in the negotiation of new-generation Partnership and Cooperation Agreements (PCA) which seek to broaden and modernise the scope of relations with countries of South East Asia. PCA negotiations started with Vietnam in 2007. The PCA will include significant political clauses, including one ‘essential element’ clause on human rights and another clause on the International Criminal Court (ICC). The PCA framework will allow the EU to intensify dialogue and cooperation on human rights with Vietnam. The Commission takes the view that some of the provisions which are included in its FTAs, for example on labour rights, help to promote human rights and fundamental freedoms. In addition, in order to ensure a coherent and integrated relationship with our third-partners, the Commission will pursue a link between the new FTAs being negotiated and the PCAs, including their human rights provisions, as the broader agreements governing our relations.