appropriate. This motion shall be placed on the draft agenda of the part-session following the decision by the committee. Rule 55 Renewed referral to Parliament Codecision procedure 1. The President shall, at the request of the committee responsible, ask the Commission to refer its proposal again to Parliament - where the Commission withdraws its initial proposal after Parliament has adopted its position in order to replace it with another text, except where this is done in order to incorporate Parliament's amendments; or - where the Commission substantially amends or intends to amend its initial proposal, except where this is done in order to incorporate Parliament's amendments; or - where, through the passage of time or changes in circumstances, the nature of the problem with which the proposal is concerned substantially changes; or - where new elections to Parliament have taken place since it adopted its position, and the Conference of Presidents considers it desirable. 2. Parliament shall, at the request of the committee responsible, ask the Council to refer again to Parliament a proposal submitted by the Commission pursuant to Article 251 of the EC Treaty, where the Council intends to modify the legal basis of the proposal with the result that the procedure laid down in Article 251 would no longer apply. Other procedures 3. At the request of the committee responsible, the President shall call on the Council to reconsult Parliament in the same circumstances and under the same conditions as those set out in paragraph 1, and also where the Council substantially amends or intends to amend the proposal on which Parliament originally delivered its opinion, except where this is done in order to incorporate Parliament's amendments. 4. The President shall also request that a proposal for an act be referred again to Parliament in the circumstances defined in this Rule where Parliament so decides on a proposal from a political group or at least forty Members. Rule 56 Conciliation procedure contained in the 1975 joint declaration 1. Where, in the case of certain important Community decisions, the Council intends to depart from the opinion of Parliament, a procedure for conciliation with the Council, with the active participation of the Commission, may be opened by Parliament when delivering its opinion. 2. This procedure shall be initiated by Parliament, either at its own or at the Council's initiative. 3. For the composition and procedure of the delegation to the conciliation committee and the reporting of the results to Parliament, Rule 64 shall apply. 4. The committee responsible shall report on the results of the conciliation. This report shall be debated and voted on by Parliament. CHAPTER 4 SECOND READING Committee stage Rule 57 Communication of the Council's common position 1. Communication of the Council's common position pursuant to Articles 251 and 252 of the EC Treaty takes place when it is announced by the President in Parliament. The President shall make the announcement after he has received the documents containing the common position itself, all declarations made in the Council minutes when it adopts the common position, the reasons which