III. Key findings of the Penrose and Baird reports on Insurance Regulators 1. The Baird Report (October 2001) The Baird Report was an internal audit commissioned by the FSA and therefore focuses mainly on its own specific role in the assessment of the Equitable Life case. However, it contains findings that can shed some light on the role of financial regulators in general and on this case in particular As recalled by Mr. BRAITHWAITE (H11), the Baird report was precluded from looking at the period of primary negligence, from 1990-98 and it covered only the 23 months prior to closure, for which the FSA was responsible. . In general terms, the report defines the role of the prudential regulator as having "... to exercise judgements so that it is confident that the company will remain solvent and meet the reasonable expectations of policyholders, without intruding unreasonably into the management of the company" (par. 6.1.5). But at the same time it recalls that the FSA remit included a consensus view that "it is neither realistic nor necessarily desirable in a climate which seeks to encourage competition, innovation and consumer choice, to seek to achieve 100% success in avoiding company failure ." Concerning the adequacy of the regulator's available resources, the report recalls how " the FSA has finite resources and, as a consequence, is continually exercising its judgement of risks to determine how to deploy its resources to best effect " (par. 6.3.3). While conceding that "the crude comparator of 'staff resources deployed per institution regulated' shows banks and building societies having more than double the resources of those that are deployed on life insurance companies " (par. 7.9), it reports not seeing at FSA "lack of resources as an issue in the prudential regulation of Equitable Life, ... but rather a better application of resources " (par. 6.3.4). Concerning the question of the FSA reaction in the Equitable Life case, it concedes that " when responsibility for the prudential regulation of Equitable Life was transferred to the FSA, Equitable Life ... was already a high profile, “live” issue and was the subject of discussions which had been initiated by HMT-ID" ( Treasury's Insurance Department ) (par. 6.2.2.). However, it comes to the conclusion that " by 1 January 1999, the “die was cast” and we have seen nothing which the FSA could have done thereafter which would have mitigated, in any material way, the impact of the outcome of the Court case as far as existing policyholders were concerned, or made any material beneficial difference to the final outcome so far as Equitable Life was concerned ." (par. 6.2.4.). Nonetheless, the report admits there were " a number of things which the FSA could have done better ... occasions when both the prudential and the conduct of business regulators did not spot issues to be addressed or, having spotted them, did not follow them up ", citing as the main reason " the poor level of communication and coordination between the two arms of regulation, prudential and conduct of business ." (par.