Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (7 October 2008) Beef imports from Brazil are only permitted if they satisfy a number of requirements, including de-boning and maturation, in order to ensure the EU an adequate level of protection against animal and public health risks. These requirements are based on scientific evidence, proportionate and non-discriminatory, in accordance with the principles of the World Trade Organisation Agreement on the application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary measures (WTO-SPS). Commission Decision 2008/61/EC OJ L 15, 18.1.2008 . was adopted on 17 January 2008, to ensure that Brazilian beef was imported into the Community on a secure basis by strengthening the control and surveillance of holdings from which animals eligible for export to the Community could be sourced Imports to the Community have fallen to very low levels following the entry into force of this decision. As of 8 September 2008, 251 Brazilian bovine holdings were listed as authorised for the export of bovine meat to the Community in the Community's Trade Control and Expert System (TRACES). The FVO (Food and Veterinary Office, located in Grange, Ireland) carried out an inspection in Brazil between 27 February and 13 March 2008 on a selection of the listed holdings to verify that all EU requirements were being met. The mission concluded that EU requirements are being met in the approved holdings. However further efforts are necessary to ensure that the deficiencies identified in the broader control system, put in place by the Brazilian authorities, are definitively addressed. Decision 2008/61/EC does not limit the amount of beef that can be imported into the Community and it therefore does not preclude that levels of imports could change in the future. However, any consignment will have to be in compliance with the Community's food safety and animal health requirements. From April to June 2008, a total of 10834 metric tons of Brazilian fresh beef meat have been imported into the EU while in the same period of 2007, 76104 metric tons were imported.