2. The Conference of Presidents shall draw up a list of subjects to be included on the final draft agenda for the next debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law on the basis of the requests referred to in paragraph 1 and in accordance with the provisions of Annex III. The total number of subjects included on the agenda shall not exceed three, including sub-chapters. In accordance with the provisions of Rule 132, Parliament may abandon a topic due to be debated and replace it by an unscheduled topic in the debate. Motions for resolutions on the subjects chosen shall be tabled by the evening of the day on which the agenda is adopted. The President shall set the precise deadline for tabling such motions for resolutions. 3. The total speaking time for the political groups and non-attached Members shall be allocated in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 142(2) and (3) within the maximum time for debates of 60 minutes per part-session. Any time remaining after taking account of the time required for the introduction of and vote on the motions for resolutions and the speaking time, if any, allocated to the Commission and Council, shall be broken down between the political groups and the non-attached Members. 4. At the end of the debate there shall be an immediate vote. Rule 163 shall not apply. Votes taken pursuant to this Rule may be organised on a collective basis under the responsibility of the President and the Conference of Presidents. 5. If two or more motions for resolutions are tabled on the same subject, the procedure set out in Rule 103(4) shall apply. 6. The President and political group chairs may decide that a motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote without debate. Such a decision shall require the unanimous assent of all the political group chairs. The provisions of Rules 167, 168 and 170 shall not apply to motions for resolutions included on the agenda for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Motions for resolutions shall be tabled for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law only after the list of subjects has been adopted. Motions for resolutions that cannot be dealt with in the time allocated to the debate shall lapse. The same shall apply to motions for resolutions in respect of which it is established, following a request under Rule 149(3), that a quorum is not present. Obviously Members shall be entitled to retable such motions either for consideration in committee pursuant to Rule 113 or for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law at the next part-session. A subject cannot be included on the agenda for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law if it is already on the agenda for that part-session. There are no provisions in the Rules to allow a