down in February 2007. The House will vote on a resolution on the issue during its plenary session in Brussels in October. (10-11 October). MEPs call for liquids on planes legislation to be repealed unless new conclusive facts are brought forward The House adopted a resolution with 464 votes in favour, 158 against and 70 abstentions on the restrictions imposed by the EU on liquids that passengers can take on board aeroplanes. MEPs call upon the Commission to review urgently and – if no further conclusive facts are brought forward – to repeal Regulation (EC) No 1546/2006 (introduction of liquids onto aircraft). The particular amendment on the possible repeal was adopted with 382 votes in favour, 298 against and 15 abstentions. Unified position needed on desertification conference MEPs expressed their support for the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, and its reform process and call on the Commission and the Member States to present a unified position in the COP meeting, in close cooperation with ACP partners. This was the message of a resolution adopted on the EU objectives for the 8th meeting of the Conference of Parties (COP8) being held in Madrid from 3 to 14 September 2007. Fundamental Rights and Justice": specific programme "drugs prevention and information", 2007-2013 The European Parliament adopted, at second reading, the report on the Council common position for the specific programme "Drug prevention and information" as part of the General programme "Fundamental Rights and Justice" 2007 -2013. Parliament approved the Council common position as soon as was possible in order to ensure the timely launch of the specific programme. MEPs concerned about alcohol, alcopops and binge drinking The European Parliament adopted an own initiative report on the European Union strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol-related harm. The report raises several issues including: labelling and warnings, binge-drinking, "alcopops" and reducing accidents caused by drinking and driving. The report was adopted by a large majority in a show of hands. An efficient European emergency number ("112") and increased safety for its citizens The European Parliament adopted a written declaration requesting an evaluation of the quality of the operation of "112", the little known European emergency number. The declaration was adopted with the largest majority ever to have been attained for a written declaration (530 MEPs out of a total of 785). The declaration calls upon the Member States and the Commission to engage the necessary processes and resources for ensuring an efficient 112 service all over the EU. Inland transport of dangerous goods - simplifying EU legislation By a large majority, the EP adopted a report on harmonising the rules for the transport of dangerous goods by making them as user-friendly as possible. Boguslaw Liberadzki (PES, PL) says that the new proposal integrates the existing rules into one piece of EU law which will cover the land transport modes road and rail and include inland waterway transport as well. It is expected that this report at first reading in co-decision may lead to a direct agreement with Council. Megatrucks on EU roads? Yes, but under