the country; 2. Regrets that the electoral system may make the establishment of stable democratic parties difficult, but is convinced that, despite the ethnic divisions and conflicts dating back to the war, the Afghan Parliament will form a democratic majority capable of assuming responsibility for continuing the process of reform; 3. Expresses its solidarity with all those who - despite the many risks - contributed to the successful completion of the elections, including the candidates, all those who participated in the preparation of the elections and all those who worked to maintain security and order; 4. Condemns the violent acts and assassinations which took place during the elections and the fact that numerous Afghan and foreign soldiers are dying in combat with terrorist groups; expresses its condolences and its solidarity with the victims and their families; 5. Notes that the violent acts were not able to distort the electoral process as a whole; 6. Notes with regret that there were some election irregularities and malpractices, relating in particular to the election of commanders-turned-politicians, and expects that the Afghan authorities will handle this issue in a transparent and effective manner so as to safeguard the integrity of the elections; 7. Expresses its conviction that the reconstruction and stabilisation process will require further solidarity and long-term support from the people of Afghanistan, and therefore calls on the Council and the Commission, as well as the entire international community of democratic countries, to provide even greater financial, political and technical aid for the government of the Republic of Afghanistan; 8. Calls on EU Member States not to deny any necessary civil or military support requested by the Afghan government, and to grant greater financial and technical assistance for the training of Afghan military forces in order to preserve peace in Afghanistan; 9. Calls on the Pakistan authorities to take action to prevent http://www.afgha.com/?af=faq&myfaq=yes&id_cat=6&categories=The+Taliban recruitment and definitively to cut off Taliban lines of supply from Pakistani territory; 10. Calls on the President and the new Parliament of Afghanistan to make combating drugs trafficking one of the government's priorities; 11. Calls on the new parliament to ensure the presence of women in political and social life in Afghanistan and to protect their rights; 12. Calls on the Council and the Commission to examine possibilities for more effective cooperation with the Afghan authorities on combating the cultivation and smuggling of drugs; 13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission, the President and Parliament of Afghanistan, the governments of the donor countries for the stabilization and reconstruction of Afghanistan and the UN Secretary-General.