the field of fusion, should be kept, in continuity with the previous framework programme. Amendment 12 Annex I, subtitle 'Fusion Energy Research', subtitle 'Activities', bullet 2, A focused physics and technology programme will exploit the facilities and resources in the fusion programme, including JET. It will assess specific key ITER technologies, consolidate ITER project choices, and prepare for ITER operation through experimental and theoretical activities. A focused physics and technology programme will exploit the facilities and resources in the fusion programme, i.e. JET and the magnetic confinement devices already existing or under construction in all Member States ( tokamaks , stellarators , RFPs ). It will assess specific key ITER technologies, consolidate ITER project choices, and prepare for ITER operation through experimental and theoretical activities. Justification This amendment follows the rapporteur's proposed amendment 4. However, the specific reference to tokomak and stellarator as magnetic confinement devices accurately defines the activities of the European fusion programme. The full and effective exploitation of the ITER device, once it is built, cannot be achieved without a bold accompanying programme, during the ITER construction. R&D activities in preparation of ITER, based on a focused physics and technology programme, must be carried out on all the magnetic confinement toroidal devices, already existing or under construction in all Member States. The exploitation of such devices, during the construction of ITER (which will last one decade), will increase the knowledge in a number of ITER-relevant topics and will prepare a new generation of European fusion scientists and engineers that will effectively work on ITER. Amendment 13 Annex I, subtitle "Fusion Energy research", subtitle "Activities", bullet 4 The activities will include further development of improved concepts for magnetic confinement schemes with potential advantages for Fusion power stations (focussed on the completion of the construction of the W7-X stellarator device), theory and modelling aimed at a comprehensive understanding of the behaviour of fusion plasmas and co-ordination, in the context of a keep-in-touch activity, of Member States’ civil research activities on inertial confinement . The activities will include further development of improved concepts for magnetic confinement schemes with potential advantages for Fusion power stations (focussed on the completion of the construction of the W7-X stellarator device), theory and modelling aimed at a comprehensive understanding of the behaviour of fusion plasmas. Justification This last sentence is meaningless and should be deleted. Amendment 14 Annex 1, subtitle "Fusion Energy research", subtitle "Activities", bullet 5 In view of the immediate and medium term needs of ITER, and for the further development of fusion, initiatives aimed at ensuring that adequate human resources will be available, in terms of numbers, range of skills and high level training and experience will be pursued. In view of the immediate and medium term needs of ITER, and for the further development of fusion, initiatives aimed at ensuring that adequate human resources will be available, in terms of numbers, range of skills and high level training and experience will be pursued, including by means of a European PHD in Physics and Engineering of Fusion . Amendment 15 Annex I, subtitle 'Fusion