The following information shall be provided for the Commission's register: 1. The title of proposed citizens’ initiative in no more than 100 characters; 1. The title of the proposed citizens’ initiative in no more than 100 characters; 2. The subject-matter, in no more than 200 characters; 2. The subject-matter, in no more than 200 characters; 3. The description of the objectives of the proposal on which the Commission is invited to act, in no more than 500 characters; 3. The description of the objectives of the proposal on which the Commission is invited to act, in no more than 500 characters; 4. The legal base of the Treaties which would allow the Commission to act ; 4. The Treaty provision considered relevant by the organisers for the proposed action ; 5. The full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organiser or, in the case of a legal entity or organisation, its legal representative ; 5. The full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organisers and the contact persons ; 7 . All sources of funding and support for the proposed initiative at the time of registration. 6 . All sources of support and funding for the proposed initiative at the time of registration. Organisers may provide more detailed information on the subject, objectives and background to the proposed citizens' initiative in an annex. They may also, if they wish, submit a draft legislative text. Organisers may provide more detailed information on the subject, objectives, and background to the proposed citizens' initiative in an annex. They may also, if they wish, submit a draft legislative text. Justification Changes made necessary by changes to the enacting terms. The title and the heading should be changed because Article 4 amends substantially the nature and procedure of the registration. Thus the title can be misleading, because more elements are required for registration than listed in the annex, e.g. the initiative is not against the values of the Union, etc. Moreover, the grounds for refusing the registration are listed in Article 4. The Annex shouldn't add to those conditions. Amendment 59 Proposal for a regulation Annex III Text proposed by the Commission Statement of support form Box 1: (to be pre-completed by the organiser ) 1. Commission registration number * : 2. Date of registration * : 3. Web address of the proposed citizens' initiative on the Commission register * : Box 2: (to be pre-completed by the organiser ) 1. Title of proposed citizens’ initiative * : (maximum 100 characters) 2. Subject-matter * : (the subject should be as clear as possible) (maximum 200 character) 3. Description of the main objectives of the proposed citizens' initiative * : (maximum 500 characters) 4. Name and address of organiser* : 5. Website of the proposed citizens' initiative: Box 3 : (to be completed by signatory ) 1. Name of signatory: First name*:………………………Family name*: 2. Address : Street: Postcode: City*: Country*: 3. E-mail address: 4. Date and place of birth *: Date of birth: Place and country: 5. Nationality *: 6. Personal identification number*: Type