18, amendments to all the Annexes to this Regulation apart from Annexes II and III . Justification There are provisions in these two annexes that need to be examined by Parliament. These two annexes must be excluded therefore from the scope of delegated acts and comitology. Amendment 55 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The delegated act may be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and enter into force before the expiry of that period if the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission of their intention not to raise objections. The delegated act shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and enter into force before the expiry of that period if the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the Commission of their intention not to raise objections. Amendment 56 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The Commission shall inform the other Member States thereof. The Commission shall inform the other Member States and the European Parliament thereof. Amendment 57 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Five years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. Two years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. Amendment 58 Proposal for a regulation Annex II – point 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The legal base of the Treaties which would allow the Commission to act; deleted Justification Expecting citizens launching an initiative to know the legal base of the Treaties which would allow the Commission to act is not realistic. On the contrary, it is the Commission’s job to examine an initiative and its compatibility with the Treaties and then to inform the organisers as to its admissibility, giving them precise reasons for its decision and publishing it. Amendment 59 Proposal for a regulation Annex II – point 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. The full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organiser or, in the case of a legal entity or organisation, its legal representative ; 5. The full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organiser; Amendment 60 Proposal for a regulation Annex III – Box 2 – point 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. Financial and political support received in respect of the proposed citizens initiative*: Amendment 61 Proposal for a Regulation Annex III – Box 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Box 3: (to be completed by signatory) Box 3: (to be completed by signatory) 1. Name of signatory: 1. Name of signatory: First name*:……Family name*: First name*:……Family name*: 2. Address: Street: Postcode: City*: Country*: 2. Address: Street: Postcode: City*: Country*: 3. E-mail address: 3. E-mail address: 4. Date