made: 1. The Commission’s proposal is notably concise: six articles running to two pages, a one-page annex and a few recitals. It is brief to the point of inadequacy. Many important aspects are missing, for example as regards the definition of the programme. 2. The organisation of the planned administrative arrangements is hardly mentioned. It is referred to in a separate and non-legislative document, the ‘concept paper’, in which the Commission explains that the programme will be managed by a European economic interest grouping, or EEIG (Council Regulation (EEC) No 2137/85 OJ L 199 of 31.10.1985, p. 1. ) . 3. A Member State may not be a member of an EEIG. Only companies or firms, other legal bodies governed by public or private law or natural persons are able to do so. The conditions on which Member States will delegate their powers will have to be clarified, therefore. Rapporteur’s amendments Amendments 3, 7 and 12: All the stakeholders involved in the EDCTP programme agree that it should focus on these three poverty-related diseases in the developing countries. However, while concentrating the research effort on these three diseases, it would appear inadvisable to circumscribe such research too narrowly. That is why it is necessary, within limits, to take into account certain co-existing infections that play an important role in their development. Interventions aimed at combating the three diseases in question must take those infections into account, if necessary, both at the development stage and at the stage of clinical trials and their evaluation. The purpose of amendment 1 is to incorporate that important aspect of the fight against the three main diseases. Amendment 7 underlines a more general aspect of the research programmes and activities undertaken by the member countries in this field. Amendment 12 specifies that when new ‘products’ are referred to, these are mainly drugs and vaccines. Amendments 8, 9, 12 and 29: These amendments seek to reinforce the idea that the research financed by the programme in question should be geared specifically to the incidence of the three diseases, the requirements of the local people and the capacities of existing structures, in the developing countries. Moreover, the products resulting from the clinical trials envisaged in the programme must be easily accessible to developing countries. That implies that such products will be made available to the countries concerned on conditions (in terms of price, expertise required on the ground and other prior requirements relating to infrastructures) which will ensure they are accessible in practice. Amendments 8 and 9 emphasise that aspect of the research. Improving the developing countries’ access to products developed under the EDCTP programme is explicitly included as one of the activities linked to the development of such new products and covered in the annex (Amendment 29). Amendment 29 seeks to emphasise the importance of taking account of existing interventions regarded as promising and investing in improving them while developing new products, in order to make up the time lag between the development of a new product and its general use to treat a disease. Amendments 18, 22