and further to enhance the transparency and predictability of TDI proceedings. This readiness to tackle unfair competition applies to all sectors for which TDI can be used, including the textile and clothing industry. It should be noted that the TDI Green Paper process and the proposals to be formulated by the Commission in light of the outcome of this process foresees a number of measures in order to improve the position of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in TDI proceedings. Beyond the general measures envisaged to further improve the transparency and predictability of TDI procedures and thereby supporting the involvement of SMEs, some SME-specific proposals would also be tabled such as reinforcing the targeted technical assistance (help desk), making the procedural questionnaires more user friendly for SME etc. It is assumed that the creation of the post of a Hearing Officer would also contribute to improve the position of SMEs in TDI proceedings. The Commission has supported research and innovation in the textile and clothing sector via the 6th Framework Programme for Research and Development (FP6). Projects worth over EUR 70 million have been financed including projects such as: Textile Architecture — Textile structures and buildings of the future (CONTEX-T); Intelligent multi-reactive textiles integrating nano-filler based CPC-fibers (Inteltex) and Digital Programme Jetting of Fluids for Multifunctional Protective Textiles (Digitex). The Commission continues to support the European Technology Platform for the Future of Textiles and Clothing (ETP-FTC), set up to define and implement a Strategic Research Agenda for the textile and clothing sector. The Strategic Research Agenda, unveiled in June 2006, has contributed to orienting the 7th Research Framework Programme (FP 7) towards the specific needs of the textile and clothing industry. A multi-annual plan for promoting focussed research within the sector has promoted new materials, including bio-based fibres, for high added-value products during year one of FP7. In 2008, research focussing on technical textile applications for personal protective clothing and equipment will be proposed. This will complement the 2007 topic on industrial safety and support this domain in the planned Lead Market Initiative. Funding is specifically targeted at SMEs within the sector, with a view not only to encourage SME-led participation in research, but also to stimulate and mobilise regional and national funds. At national level, Member States have earmarked over EUR 1000 million for funding SME research support for the duration of FP7, from which textile and clothing SMEs can also benefit. In the area of innovation, two projects have received funding within the Europe INNOVA initiative: Innotex on a network of innovation clusters for the technical textiles sector and Netfintex on financing innovation in the European textile and clothing industry. In the context of Europe INNOVA, the Commission has set up sectoral innovation panels in eight selected areas, one of which is textiles. The mission of the panel is to discuss innovation policy issues from the textiles perspective and to provide recommendations for more efficient innovation policy. The Commission also aims to improve the conditions for innovation through actions to be carried out under the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme, in