added value to health promotion in the Community through the support of structures and programmes which enhance the capabilities of individuals, institutions, associations, organisations and bodies in the health field by facilitating the exchange of experience and best practices and by providing a basis for a common analysis of the factors affecting public health. Also, the programme may have added value in the event of threats to public health of a cross-border nature, such as infectious diseases, to the extent that they promote joint strategies and actions. The programme will enable the Community to contribute towards fulfilling its Treaty obligations in the field of public health while fully respecting the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health services and health care. This decision does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve those objectives. (18) In accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality set out in Article 5 of the Treaty, Community action on matters which do not fall within the exclusive competence of the Community, such as public health, should be undertaken only if and in so far as, by reason of its scale of effects, its objective can be better achieved by the Community. The objectives of the programme cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States because of the complexity, transnational character and lack of complete control at Member State level over the factors affecting health and health systems , and therefore the programme should support and complement the Member States' actions and measures. The programme can provide a significant added value to health promotion in the Community through the support of structures and programmes which enhance the capabilities of individuals, institutions, associations, organisations and bodies in the health field by facilitating the exchange of experience and best practices and by providing a basis for a common analysis of the factors affecting public health. Also, the programme may have added value in the event of threats to public health of a cross-border nature, such as infectious diseases , environmental pollution or food contamination , to the extent that they promote joint strategies and actions. The programme will enable the Community to contribute towards fulfilling its Treaty obligations in the field of public health while fully respecting the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health services and health care. This decision does not go beyond what is necessary to achieve those objectives. Amendment 15 Recital 20 a (new) (20a) Effective implementation of the measures and actions and achievement of the desired impact of the programme require comparability of the data collected and compatibility and interoperability of the systems and networks for exchanging information and data on health. It is of prime importance that information is exchanged on the basis of comparable and compatible data. Amendment 16 Recital 21 a (new) (21a) The Feira European Council in June 2000 endorsed the "e-Europe 2002 Action Plan on an Information Society for All", which under Health Online urges Member States to develop an infrastructure of user-friendly, validated and interoperable systems for health