been delegated by the institution. Section 1 Commitment of expenditure Article 76 1. The budgetary commitment is the operation reserving the appropriation necessary to cover subsequent payments to honour a legal commitment. The legal commitment is the act whereby the authorising officer enters into or establishes an obligation which results in a charge. The budgetary commitment and the legal commitment shall be adopted by the same authorising officer, save in duly substantiated cases as provided for in the implementing rules. 2. The budgetary commitment is individual when the beneficiary and the amount of the expenditure are known. The budgetary commitment is global when at least one of the elements necessary to identify the individual commitment is still not known. The budgetary commitment is provisional when it is intended to cover the expenditure referred to in Article 150 or routine administrative expenditure and either the amount or the final beneficiaries are not definitively known. 3. Budgetary commitments for actions extending over more than one financial year may be broken down over several years into annual instalments only where the basic act so provides and for administrative expenditure. Where the budgetary commitment is thus divided into annual instalments, the legal commitment shall stipulate this, except in the case of expenditure on staff. Article 77 1. In respect of any measure which may give rise to expenditure chargeable to the budget, the authorising officer responsible must first make a budgetary commitment before entering into a legal obligation with third parties. 2. Subject to the special provisions of Title IV of part two, global budget commitments shall cover the total cost of the corresponding individual legal commitments concluded up to 31 December of year n + 1. Subject to Article 76(3) and Article 179(2), individual legal commitments relating to individual or provisional budgetary commitments shall be concluded by 31 December of year n . At the end of the periods referred to in the first and second subparagraphs, the unused balance of these budgetary commitments shall be decommitted by the authorising officer responsible. The amount of each individual legal commitment adopted following a global commitment shall, prior to signature, be registered by the authorising officer responsible in the budgetary accounts and booked to the global commitment. 3. The legal commitments entered into for actions extending over more than one financial year and the corresponding budgetary commitments shall, save in the case of staff expenditure, have a final date for implementation set in compliance with the principle of sound financial management. Any parts of such commitments which have not been executed six months after that date shall be decommitted in accordance with Article 11. Where a legal commitment has not then resulted in a payment after a period of three years, the authorising officer responsible shall decommit it. Article 78 1. When adopting a budgetary commitment, the authorising officer responsible shall ensure that: a) the expenditure has been charged to the correct item in the budget; b) the appropriations are available; c) the expenditure conforms to the provisions of the Treaties, of the budget, of this Regulation,