Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (17 May 2006) 1. The Commission strongly supports efforts to control illegal logging in Indonesia. In March 2006, the EUR 15 million Indonesia Action Plan for ‘Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade’ (FLEGT) support programme became operational. This follows on from an earlier project, the Illegal Logging Response Centre, which assisted the Government to tackle illegal logging in a number of national parks. The EU is responding to the ban on export of logs and sawnwood with efforts to develop a FLEGT partnership agreement with Indonesia. The partnership agreement would offer the necessary legal framework through which to offer reciprocal support for domestic policy measures — such as the export ban on logs and sawnwood — that are introduced by Indonesia to control illegal logging. 2. Work is proceeding on the assessment of additional legislative options. An important research input to this work is nearing conclusion. The Commission hosted a consultation meeting on this work in January 2006. Work to prepare an options paper on this issue is now underway. 3. Member State legislation seems to offer limited scope to prosecute companies that bring illegal timber onto the EU Market. Legislation covering stolen goods and money laundering offer a theoretical possibility of being used in such cases. However, difficulties in proving that an offence has been committed in a third country, and the focus of law enforcement authorities on higher priorities, such as terrorism, drugs and organised crime, mean it is unlikely that any such cases will be brought to court. Any form of EU legislation to prohibit imports of illegal timber may also face the same difficulties of proving that an offence had been committed in a third country. The Commission intends to ensure that existing national certification systems are capable of allowing legal timber to be traced through supporting, where necessary, improvements to allow robust chain‑of‑custody tracing, backed up by independent auditing and inspection. 4. No voluntary partnership agreements are yet in place, so there is as yet no means of judging their impact. Work to develop partnership agreements is well underway in Ghana, Cameroon, Indonesia and Malaysia, and due to begin in other countries in the near future. Although no agreements are yet in place, it is likely that the process of developing partnership agreements, and related initiatives by EU private sector operators to rid their supply chains of illegal timber, are serving to raise awareness, change market behaviour, and bring about initial improvements. The partnership agreements aim to promote better forest governance and reduce trade in illegal timber. The success of partnerships will be judged against these criteria. Better governance is an essential pre-condition for sustainable forest management. Through enhancing forest sector governance, and ensuring national laws are respected, the partnership agreements will thus make an important contribution to overall efforts to ensure sustainable forest management.