. 4. Upon conclusion of the negotiations, the Member State concerned shall notify the Commission of the draft agreement and any other relevant documentation. Article 2 Consultation of stakeholders and participation in negotiations In so far as air carriers or other stakeholders are to be involved in the negotiations referred to in Article 1, Member States shall treat equally all Community carriers with an establishment on their respective territories to which the Treaty applies and which hold a valid operating licence issued by the authorities of the Member State concerned and, on account of their route network, are affected or might be affected by the negotiations . An "establishment" shall mean a subsidiary, branch, or agency on the territory of a Member State which is not owned by that State or by a national of that State. Article 3 Prohibition to introduce more restrictive arrangements Member States shall not enter into any new agreements that limit the number of designated air carriers by comparison with existing agreements. This provision shall apply both in respect of the entire air transport market between any two parties and in respect of specific city pairs. Article 4 Conclusion of agreements 1. Following the notification under Article 1(4) the Commission shall examine whether the draft agreement is compatible with Community law and the objectives of the Community in this field. If the Commission intends to object to the conclusion of the agreement, it shall take a decision to this effect in accordance with the regulatory procedure laid down in Article 5 of Decision 1999/468/EC, having regard to Article 7 and Article 8 thereof. 2. The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee established under Article 11 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 of 23 July 1992 on access for Community air carriers to intra-Community air routes OJ L 240, 24.8.1992, p. 8. . Article 5 Distribution of traffic rights Where a Member State concludes an agreement or amendments to an agreement or its annexes that provide for limitations on the number of traffic rights or the number of Community carriers eligible to be designated to take advantage of traffic rights, that Member State shall ensure a distribution of traffic rights among eligible Community carriers on the basis of a non-discriminatory and transparent procedure. Article 6 Notification of Procedures The details of the procedures that Member States apply for the purposes of Articles 2 and 5 shall be notified to the Commission. Any subsequent changes to such procedures shall be notified to the Commission at least 6 weeks before they enter into force. All such notifications shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union . Article 7 Confidentiality The Commission shall ensure that information supplied by Member States on negotiations and their outcome as provided for in Article 1 is treated as confidential. Should the Commission wish for legitimate reasons to depart from such treatment, the consent of the Member States must be obtained in advance . Article 8 Entry into force This regulation shall enter into force on the thirtieth day following its publication