Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (21 February 2011) 1. As announced in the communication ‘Towards a Single Market Act’, the priorities for the revision of the legal framework for public procurement are to simplify and update the European rules ‘to make the award of contracts more flexible and to enable public contracts to be put to better use in support of other policies See Single Market Act page 15 http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/smact/docs/single-market-act_en.pdf. ’. To launch a wide consultation process related to this revision, a Green Paper presenting possible areas for change was published on 27 January 2011 COM(2011)15 final. . 2. Given the ongoing consultation, it is not appropriate to prejudge the measures which the revision will introduce to achieve specific aims e.g. increasing transparency, reducing the time taken to procure. However, the Green Paper is comprehensive in its scope and provides stakeholders with the opportunity to comment on a wide range of possible enhancements to the existing legislation. In particular, stakeholders will have the opportunity to comment on adjustments to existing directive provisions that will contribute to enhancing transparency and efficiency of procurement procedures. 3. This wide review of the EU procurement directives provides an opportunity to better harness the potential of e-Procurement to simultaneously boost the transparency and efficiency of procurement procedures. This technology is currently under-employed in European public procurement. In order to identify ways to accelerate take-up, the Commission published a Green Paper in October 2010, on expanding the use of e-Procurement COM(2010)571 final. . As remarked by the Commissioner responsible for Internal Market and Services at the Open Hearing on 25 November 2010 See http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/publicprocurement/e-procurement_en.htm#hearings for further details of the hearing, including the opening remarks by the Commissioner responsible for Internal Market and Services. , the current context of financial constraint increases the importance of progress in this area. The Green Paper on e-Procurement invites comments on possible changes to EU legislation and policy that can contribute to progress including: — the imposition of electronic procedures for some procurement covered by the directives; — modifications to existing e-Procurement provisions; — whether there is a need for EU intervention to avoid the emergence of barriers to cross-border participation in online procurement. Responses to these questions will help the Commission to identify and frame useful changes to the EU procurement directives that allow Member States and public purchasers to make better use of e-Procurement. The legal changes identified as necessary to facilitate e-Procurement will be embedded within the mainstream EU legal framework. In parallel, the Commission will announce a series of complementary non-legislative actions to tackle some of the bottlenecks currently preventing wider adoption of e-Procurement, and reducing cross-border access to online procurement procedures.