GAR case and a fall in stock markets but also (to a large extent) a consequence of a decade of over-bonusing by ELAS - fell unfairly upon more recent non-GAR policyholders, who had not previously benefited from over-bonusing as did pre-1990 (predominantly GAR) policyholders. As outlined under point II.3., Mr THOMSON (H8) took a different view: " The reason for applying reductions at a flat rate was to achieve greater fairness to all policyholders. That decision was taken by the board having considered a range of options with the appointed actuary ". Mr BOSWOOD in his opinion (WE 76 Page 3. ) supports the view of EMAG that the flat-rate cut failed to take into account the over-bonusing to early policyholders. EMAG believes that the Compromise Scheme had given ELAS an opportunity to rectify the situation. Instead, the scheme proposed GAR uplifts of 17.5% against non-GAR uplifts of 2.5%. In his report, Lord PENROSE declines to comment on the fairness of the Compromise Scheme (WE 16 Page 275. ). Moreover, policyholders told the committee that the increases in policy values were not guaranteed: " Within a matter of weeks, the 2.5% increase magically turned into a 4% reduction " (Mr WEIR, H2), so policyholders " lost their rights to redress in return for an uplift which turned out to be a cheque that bounced " (Mr BELLORD, H2). Indeed, after the uplift in policy values had been credited on 1 March 2002, the Society announced a further cut of 4% on 15 April 2002, which more than eliminated the 2.5% uplift credited to non-GAR policyholders just six weeks before. The with-profits annuitants suffered a similar experience, as the Society reduced the Overall Rate of Return by 4% subsequent to the approval of the agreement. Therefore, some policyholders expressed doubts as to the legal validity of the compromise agreement (see for instance oral statement by Mr WEIR, H2 and Mr SCAWEN, WE 23 Page19. ). In response, Mr THOMSON claimed that the Society had set out all details of the Compromise Scheme in the accompanying documents. " The uplifts are very clearly set out in the Scheme documents and had both guaranteed and non-guaranteed elements. Market movements meant that we had to reduce non-guaranteed bonus subsequently. That risk was clearly identified in the documents... " (WE-CONF 5 Pages 1 and 2. ) . However, Professor BLAKE suggests in WE 29 Page 6. that the information provided to policyholders by the Board in connection with the Compromise Scheme Proposal was inadequate. Among other things, he criticised that " most of the information concerning the status of the fund was out of date, there was virtually no information on what was going to happen to the fund after [the compromise scheme would take effect and it] was not clearly spelled out what ... policyholders were foregoing by voting for the [scheme] " (WE 29 Page 6. ). Mr SCAWEN also claims that the full state of the Society's finances had not been disclosed. Otherwise, with-profits annuitants would " surely not have accepted the offer "