This Directive is intended to contribute to achieving these goals by fostering the admission and mobility for research purposes of third-country nationals for stays of more than three months, in order to make the Community more attractive to researchers from around the world , especially those with the highest qualifications, and to boost its position as an international centre for research. Amendment 3 Recital 12 (12) It is important to foster the mobility of researchers as a means of developing and consolidating contacts and networks between partners at world level. (12) It is important to foster the mobility of third-country nationals admitted for the purposes of carrying out scientific research in the European Union as a means of developing and consolidating contacts and networks between partners and establishing the role of the European Research Area (ERA) at world level. Amendment 4 Recital 12 a (new) (12a) Given that family reunification is an essential factor in - and may indeed by a precondition for - mobility among researchers, it should be made easier for researchers' families to join them, so as to maintain family unity. Amendment 32 Recital 12 b (new) (12b) Family members of researchers should therefore be able to join them in the host Member State under the same conditions as provided for in Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States 1 . __________________ 1 OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77. Amendment 5 Recital 14 a (new) (14a) A full exemption from the restrictions on access to the labour market affecting some EU citizens during existing transitional periods should be sought for any researchers subject to such restrictions going to other Member States in order to carry out research. Amendment 6 Article 1 This Directive lays down the conditions for the admission of third-country researchers to the Member States for more than three months for the purposes of conducting a research project under a hosting agreement with a research organisation . This Directive lays down the conditions for the admission of third-country researchers to the European Union for more than three months for the purposes of conducting a research project under hosting agreements with one or more approved research organisations in one or more Member States . Amendment 7 Article 2, point (b) (b) "Researcher" means a third-country national holding a postgraduate (master's or equivalent) degree admitted to the territory of a Member State of the European Union for the purposes of conducting a research project at a research organisation; (b) "Researcher" means a third-country national holding a postgraduate ( at least master's or equivalent) degree admitted to the territory of a Member State of the European Union for the purposes of conducting a research project at a research organisation; Amendment 8 Article 4, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 a (new) Approval granted to a research organisation shall be valid for a renewable period of five years. Member States may grant