WRITTEN QUESTION P-3565/06 by Cristiana Muscardini (UEN) to the Commission (25 July 2006) Subject: National decree laws and opinions of the Commission In a recent Italian decree law (No 223), the various aims of the urgent measures proposed include that of ‘ensuring compliance with the recommendations and opinions of the European Commission’. This aim is, in our view, a pious wish since the urgent measures proposed in the decree for the protection of competition in the professional services sector are contrary to the principles laid down by the EU, whereby competition rules do not apply to liberal professions. Directive 2005/36/EC OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22 . on the recognition of professional qualifications explains out that liberal professions are ‘those practised on the basis of relevant professional qualifications in a personal, responsible and professionally independent capacity … The exercise of the profession might be subject in the Member States, in conformity with the Treaty, to specific legal constraints based on national legislation and on the statutory provisions laid down autonomously, within that framework, by the respective professional representative bodies, safeguarding and developing their professionalism and quality of service and the confidentiality of relations with the client’. As regards the specific case of lawyers, the directive maintains in force the two sectoral directives on the freedom to provide services (77/249/EEC OJ L 78, 26.3.1977, p. 17 . ) and on practice of the profession on a permanent basis (98/5/EC OJ L 77, 14.3.1998, p. 36 . ). The ‘Bolkestein’ Directive itself, still under consideration, does not, following Parliament's first reading, include intellectual professions in its scope, referring specifically to the aforementioned Directive 2005/36/EC, and thus does not cover the legal profession at all. No competition rules, therefore, for intellectual activities, and certainly not in the way that it applies to the business sector. 1. Can the Commission confirm this assessment of the situation? 2. Does it not consider it contradictory to state that the urgent measures for the protection of competition in the professional services sector ensure compliance with the recommendation and opinions of the European Commission, when the EU in fact rules out the application of competition rules to intellectual professions? 3. What consequences does a Member State face if it contravenes the ‘recommendations and opinions of the Commission’ in such a delicate and controversial matter, which is in fact governed by a general directive and various sectoral directives? 4. Is it not ambiguous to refer to ‘recommendations and opinions’ when there are in fact directives and decisions governing competition? 5. Does it share the view that liberal professions and businesses are not comparable in competition terms?