information about the financial consequences of each new proposal presented by the Commission; calls on the Commission to present a financial assessment of the post-ECSC activities being phased in the general budget as they may have an impact on the margin under the ceiling of each heading of the financial perspective; stresses the need for further consultation of the budgetary authority should significant changes be made during the renewal of programmes financed under the general budget; believes this to be the only way to ensure that these changes are compatible with the current ceilings of the financial perspective; 8. Proposes the inclusion of an enlargement clause which would allow to re-examine the ratio of funds available for coal and steel research in order to take into account the impact of enlargement; suggests that accessing countries should contribute to the assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund as they will be the main beneficiaries of post-ECSC activities as well as the modernisation and restructuring programmes financed by the Community; 9. Calls on the Council to notify the European Parliament should it intend to depart from the legislative texts approved by Parliament; 10. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT 1. Background The Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, which was signed in Paris on 18 April 1951 and entered into force on 23 July 1952 for a 50-year period, will come to an end on 23 July 2002. The ECSC Treaty can be considered as the foundation of European integration. It is based on the plan devised by Robert Schuman and Jean Monnet which consisted of placing all French and German coal and steel production under a High Authority within an organisation open to other countries of Europe. Declaration of 9 May 1950. The ECSC Treaty had fundamental political importance as it contributed to the peaceful development of two extremely important sectors in economic and strategic terms. It was characterised by a degree of supranationality which no other European treaty has achieved ever since. It is clear, however, that fifty years later the existence of a treaty concentrating on two specific activities is no longer justified. In its resolution on growth and employment signed in June 1997, the Amsterdam European Council invited the Commission to make "appropriate proposals to ensure that upon expiry of the ECSC Treaty in 2002 the revenue from outstanding reserves would be used for a research fund for sectors related to the coal and steel industries". Resolution adopted at the European Council meeting in Amsterdam on 16-17 June 1997. In the resolutions of 20 July 1998 OJ C 247, 7.8.1998, p. 5. and 21 June 1999 OJ C 190, 7.7.1999, p. 1. , Member States agreed that on expiry of the Treaty, ownership of ECSC assets and liabilities would revert to the Communities remaining. ECSC assets would be separated from other Community funds, and they would make up the revenue for the Coal and Steel Research Fund. The Commission would be responsible for ensuring separate budgetary supervision, guaranteeing that