a Member's question (H4) on whether if transposition into different acts and regulations has any legal or other significance as to the seriousness with which the Directive and other directives were transposed into UK law, Clive MAXWELL responded with a clear no: " the law is the law: it does not matter whether something is covered in an act of parliament or in a regulation of parliament or, for that matter, the FSA’s rule book. It still has legal force and it is still a very valid way of transposing the directive.[...] I think that many Member States have a system of transposing directives into a range of different legislative instruments depending on their national arrangements. [...] It depends, of course, on their national arrangements and traditions and how they regulate." 7. The directives are just a baseline Martin McELWEE, in H3, takes a contrary view to other witnesses and states that " the directives necessarily laid down a baseline for regulation and, consistent with the nature of a directive as opposed to a regulation, they leave it to Member States to find the most appropriate means to achieve the results required by the directive’s provisions. Directives are necessarily less prescriptive than regulations, which is why doubts as to their correct implementation sometimes arise. ” This view was reinforced by Clive MAXWELL from HMT in H4: " The Third Life Directive, like its predecessors, was a minimum harmonisation directive. [...] Member States were required to implement in domestic legislation the minimum standards the directive contained but could do so within the context of their domestic policy approach. It was not the intention that Member States create identical domestic regimes. " 8. Directives do not require a zero-failure regime In H3, Mr MCELWEE also dispels the myth that the directives require, or even imply, a zero-failure regime: “ It would be difficult to construct such a regime but I suspect that it could be done, at least in theory. It would require a level of regulation that would, in my own view, be contrary to the consumer’s ultimate interest. (…) There is nothing in the directives that signals the intention to create such a regime.” Likewise, Clive Maxwell from HMT states that " the regime did not, and still does not, seek to prevent all failures of or problems with regulated firms " (H4). 9. Freedom with publicity, designed to stimulate innovation In H4, Clive MAXWELL from HMT adds to the previous point by trying to explain how the UK's approach to " prudential supervision was characterised as being one of ‘freedom with publicity’. Insurance companies were given freedom within the applicable legislation to determine their policies and make their own decisions, provided that certain information was disclosed to the public. The approach was deliberately designed to avoid undue interference in the affairs of companies, since this was thought likely to inhibit innovation and entrepreneurial behaviour, which would have been to the detriment of policyholders and consumer choice. " 10. The regulators applied the law Responding to a question from a Member as