Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (4 September 2008) On 13 June 2008, the Commission announced that it was closing the bluefin tuna fishery in the Mediterranean and Eastern Atlantic for the purse seine fleets as it considered that the quotas allocated to them were about to be exhausted. The Commission made a detailed analysis in order to estimate the level of catches of the purse seine fleets in 2008, including those of France, which has the largest fishing capacity. This analysis is based on a number of different sources such as satellite data, control operations at sea, trade information, etc. Other elements, such as meteorological conditions, were also taken into account. The Commission is convinced that its decision is backed up by facts and it can provide all the necessary proof to this effect. The Commission was required to act without delay to protect this fragile resource and to ensure the recovery of the stock in line with the 15-year recovery plan agreed by the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna (ICCAT). The Bluefin tuna stock has suffered greatly from many years of overfishing, caused by a structural as overcapacity in a number of Member States. A repeat of the overfishing seen during the 2007 fishing season could easily lead to the collapse of the stock and thus to the definitive closure of the fishery for the foreseeable future, with disastrous consequences for the fleets and fishermen that depend on it. It is therefore the Commission's responsibility to ensure that the stock is protected and that the measures agreed upon to recover the stock are fully respected and implemented so that fishermen will be able to fish for tuna again next year. The Commission recognises the socioeconomic difficulties faced by the sector and recommends, therefore, the use of the support possibilities offered by the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) such as support for retraining, diversification and early-retirement. Compensation could also be granted for temporary cessation within a national management plan in particular in the context of a fishing effort adjustment plan. Furthermore, in view of the structural overcapacity that is jeopardising the viability of the entire sector and which is giving rise to an increased risk of illegal fishing activities, it would appear most appropriate to resort to support for permanent cessation under the EFF in order to adjust fishing capacity to fishing resources.