that Decision is foreseen). Amendment 14 Article 20, paragraph 4, subparagraph 1 The Commission shall decide, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), whether or not to allow the Member State to grant an EC type-approval in respect of that type of vehicle. The Commission shall decide, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2a), whether or not to allow the Member State to grant an EC type-approval in respect of that type of vehicle. Justification The regulatory procedure laid down in Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC should be followed for the adoption of individual decisions by the Commission (as opposed to measures of general scope, for which the regulatory procedure with scrutiny laid down in Article 5a of that Decision is foreseen). Amendment 15 Article 21, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 If the necessary steps to adapt the regulatory acts have not been taken, the validity of an exemption may be extended, at the request of the Member State which granted the approval, by another decision adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2). If the necessary steps to adapt the regulatory acts have not been taken, the validity of an exemption may be extended, at the request of the Member State which granted the approval, by another decision adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2a). Justification The regulatory procedure laid down in Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC should be followed for the adoption of individual decisions by the Commission (as opposed to measures of general scope, for which the regulatory procedure with scrutiny laid down in Article 5a of that Decision is foreseen). Amendment 16 Article 30, paragraph 1 1. If a Member State which has granted an EC type-approval finds that new vehicles, systems, components or separate technical units accompanied by a certificate of conformity or bearing an approval mark do not conform to the type it has approved, it shall take the necessary measures, including the withdrawal of type-approval, to ensure that production vehicles, systems, components or separate technical units, as the case may be, are brought into conformity with the approved type. The approval authority of that Member State shall advise the approval authorities of the other Member States of the measures taken. 1. If a Member State which has granted an EC type-approval finds that new vehicles, systems, components or separate technical units accompanied by a certificate of conformity or bearing an approval mark do not conform to the type it has approved, it shall take the necessary measures, including , where necessary, the withdrawal of type-approval, to ensure that production vehicles, systems, components or separate technical units, as the case may be, are brought into conformity with the approved type. The approval authority of that Member State shall advise the approval authorities of the other Member States of the measures taken. Justification To give type approval authorities the flexibility to take appropriate action as they consider fit Amendment 17 Article 31, title Parts and equipment which pose a significant risk