whereas unjustified fuelling of discrimination and xenophobia may potentially turn into a real concern as regards relations between Member States, in particular between civil society in Central and Eastern European Member States and Dutch civil society; G. whereas Eastern and Central European citizens have been exposed to acts of physical violence and other kinds of harassment; H. whereas, according to the latest studies carried out by the Erasmus University in Rotterdam Arbeidsmigranten uit Polen, Roemenie en Bulgarije in Den Haag. Sociale leefsituatie, arbeidpositie en toekomstperspectief, Prof. Gotfried Engbersen, Afdeling Sociologie Universiteit Rotterdam. , migrant workers from Central and Eastern European countries are making a significant contribution to the Dutch economy and the Dutch labour market; I. whereas the impetus given by Dutch government policy to European integration has significantly decreased over the last years, as demonstrated by the position of the current Dutch Government on issues such as Schengen enlargement, visa liberalisation and the opening up of labour markets; J. whereas Dutch Prime Minister Rutte’s government is supported in the Dutch Parliament by the Party of Freedom (PVV); whereas Mr Rutte has failed to denounce this incident of a manifest discriminatory and xenophobic nature, and no measures have yet been taken to address the issue; 1. Expresses its outrage at the setting-up and maintenance of a website which is openly discriminatory, encourages discriminatory and xenophobic practices and is against the fundamental values of the EU; 2. Expresses its genuine concern that the PVV website is likely to create a strong precedent and to generate intolerance between EU citizens of different nationalities; 3. Urges Prime Minister Rutte and all other Dutch political leaders to distance themselves from this deplorable initiative; 4. Urges the Dutch Government to review its tolerance towards the Party of Freedom’s policies which are in contradiction with fundamental EU values; 5. Underlines that the setting-up and maintenance of the PVV website is subject to Dutch law and therefore calls on the Dutch enforcement authorities to act and to stop the promotion of discriminatory practices by this website immediately; 6. Does not agree with statements made on the website such as the accusation that EU citizens from Central and Eastern European Member States are taking jobs from the local workforce; underlines that in reality Bulgarian and Romanian workers do not yet have access to the Dutch labour market; 7. Calls on the Commission to do its utmost to stop the spread of xenophobic attitudes such as those expressed on this website; 8. Calls on all EU institutions and all Member States to participate actively in the fight against extremism and xenophobia across the EU since such phenomena undermine the very foundations and essential principles upon which the European Union is built; 9. Suggests that an open and substantial dialogue be held between EU institutions, Member State governments and civil society on the social, political and economic challenges arising from intra-EU migration; 10. Calls on the Dutch Government give a swift answer to the letters sent by the Commission on envisaged legislation that may infringe Directive 2004/38/EC on the right of EU