through the Health Action Programme (for instance, the surveillance networks) will be managed and financed by the ECDC in the future. Given that the margin in Heading 3b is very small, there will not be much room for new political initiatives with financial consequences in the health, consumer protection and food safety policy area in the coming years. As regards the 2007 budget, the Tobacco Fund for Research and Information, will continue to finance the Commission campaign against smoking ('Help' campaign) with €13.5 million. The amount is a bit smaller than in 2006, due to the calculation method based on the retention of a percentage of the premiums for tobacco producers. Under Heading 1, the funding for the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) is slightly increased compared to 2006. Funds for setting up the new Chemicals Agency have been put into the reserve while awaiting the adoption of the establishing regulation. PROCEDURE Title The draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2007 - Section III - Commission Procedure number 2006/2018(BUD) Committee responsible BUDG Opinion by Date announced in plenary ENVI 26.9.2006 Enhanced cooperation – date announced in plenary Draftswoman Date appointed Jutta D. Haug 23.1.2006 Previous draftswoman Jutta D. Haug Discussed in committee 6.7.2006 Date adopted 13.9.2006 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 38 Members present for the final vote Adamos Adamou, Georgs Andrejevs, Liam Aylward, Irena Belohorská, John Bowis, Chris Davies, Avril Doyle, Mojca Drčar Murko, Anne Ferreira, Matthias Groote, Françoise Grossetête, Dan Jørgensen, Christa Klaß, Eija-Riitta Korhola, Peter Liese, Jules Maaten, Linda McAvan, Marios Matsakis, Vittorio Prodi, Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, Guido Sacconi, Karin Scheele, Horst Schnellhardt, Richard Seeber, Kathy Sinnott, Bogusław Sonik, Antonios Trakatellis, Thomas Ulmer, Anja Weisgerber Substitute(s) present for the final vote Giovanni Berlinguer, Milan Gaľa, Vasco Graça Moura, Rebecca Harms, Jutta D. Haug, Erna Hennicot-Schoepges, Karsten Friedrich Hoppenstedt, Miroslav Mikolášik, Frithjof Schmidt Substitute(s) under Rule 178(2) present for the final vote Comments (available in one language only) Committee on ... 12.9.2006 OPINION of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for the Committee on Budgets on the draft general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2007 ( C6-0299/2006 - 2006/2018(BUD) Section III - Commission Draftswoman: Neena Gill SUGGESTIONS The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy calls on the Committee on Budgets, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Reiterates the challenges which the EU is facing and the goals of the Lisbon Strategy, and expresses its concern that the appropriations under the relevant headings of the multi-annual financial framework do not reflect them; 2. Particularly regrets the reduction in the multi-annual financial framework of nearly 30% of the budget for the Seventh Framework Programme for research, technical development and demonstration activities (FP7) and of nearly 25% of the budget for the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP); emphasizes, however, that Member States also finance research and innovation, and recalls the Barcelona target, according to which two-thirds of funding should be provided by the private sector; 3. Welcomes the contribution of the European