sites and make it possible to develop abbreviations common to all Member States. They must also be required to include warning banners on search engines operated in Europe. Amendment 30 Recommendation II, point 1 a (new) (1a) consider the possibility of creating filters which will prevent child pornography or other material which constitutes an assault on human dignity from being carried on the Internet; Justification Creating filters which would prevent minors from gaining access to child pornography and to any other kind of material which constitutes an assault on human dignity would be a valuable step. Amendment 31 Recommendation II, point 1 b (new) (1a) develop measures to foster the use of a labelling system for material distributed on the Internet, using protocols such as PICS (Platform for Internet Content Selection) and systems to filter information passing among users. Justification It is important and necessary to prevent unrestricted access by minors to pornographic content, but it is much more important to prevent minors from appearing directly as part of such content. Amendment 32 Recommendation II, point 2 (2) develop effective measures to avoid discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in all media, and to combat such discrimination and promote a diversified and realistic picture of the skills and potential of women and men in society. (2) develop effective measures to avoid discrimination as defined in Article II-81 of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and to combat any discrimination of this kind created by false and stereotyped images of human beings, commercial exploitation of the human body, and trivialisation of violence and war. Justification The industries must continue to improve their efforts to prevent the dissemination of false and stereotyped images of human beings, as well as images trivialising violence or warfare. This is vital if they are to act responsibly and inspire trust among their users. Amendment 33 Recommendation II a (new) (II a) INVITE the Commission to: - organise, in connection with the 2005-2008 multiannual Community programme on promoting safer use of the Internet and new online technologies, a European information campaign aimed at citizens, using all communications media, to alert public opinion to the dangers of the Internet and the risk of criminal penalties (lodging of complaints, parental control). Specific campaigns could be aimed at target groups such as schools, parents’ associations and users. - introduce a European toll-free number providing information on existing filter methods intended to offset the absence in some Member States of telephone hotlines, making it easier to lodge complaints with the competent authorities and report harmful sites. - consider the introduction of a generic top level domain name reserved for permanently monitored sites which would undertake to respect minors and their rights, on pain of criminal penalties (.KID for example). - maintain a constructive and ongoing dialogue with content providers’ organisations, consumers’ organisations and all parties concerned. - encourage and support self-regulation bodies in forming networks and exchanging experience, so as to assess the effectiveness of codes of conduct and approaches based on