lacks amenities for audiences and technical quality, S. whereas new digital distribution and projection techniques (e-cinema) will create new opportunities for the distribution of European films because they will make the distribution of films simpler and cheaper, and whereas this will spectacularly increase the scope for supplying several language versions, T. whereas, however, e-cinema is still in its infancy and not only requires further research but will initially also entail major investment in projection equipment, U. whereas virtually all European films owe their existence to public funds and other government incentives, V. whereas the audiovisual industry is very future-oriented and is a major potential source of employment, as confirmed by a study performed for the Commission in 1997, which states that the turnover of the audiovisual industry could rise by 70% by 2005, which could represent a growth of 350 000 new jobs, W. whereas film is a vector of contemporary culture which can potentially reach a large audience and thus does much to preserve and promote cultural diversity, X. whereas the restoration, promotion and circulation of the European cinematic heritage have a major part to play both in the economic exploitation of European culture and identity and in fostering their appreciation, Y. whereas the European internal market is extremely fragmented as regards the circulation of films, although its population of 376 million and, after enlargement, even more than 480 million makes it the largest market in the world, Z. whereas a strong European film industry presupposes strong national and regional film industries, AA.whereas, next to the nurturing of good directors, the development of a film star system could be one of the keys to an internationally more attractive cinema, AB.whereas in Europe the creative and commercial talent and the resources are available to build a sustainable industry, and the European film industry can only survive in the digital age if it is geared to the future and takes the initiative, AC.whereas there are too few complete and reliable statistics about the situation in the applicant countries, which impedes a thorough analysis, AD.whereas the revision of the Television Without Frontiers directive is planned for 2002, 1. Calls on the Commission and the Council urgently to adopt an ambitious, efficient and integrated multiannual plan to render the European film industry competitive and the choice of films pluralist; for this purpose calls for the funds made available for the film industry within the appropriations for the audiovisual industry in the Community budget to be increased; this plan should take into account the diversity of national circumstances and take measures to complement national and regional policies; 2. Calls on the Commission to pursue a consistent Community policy on the film industry, particularly as regards its cultural/industrial incentive policy, on the one hand, and its approach to State aid to the industry under its competition policy, which should take into account the specific nature of the sector, on the other hand, with the aim both of improving the European audiovisual industry’s competitiveness and of safeguarding cultural diversity; 3. Calls on the Commission, the European Investment Bank