asked Parliament's President Jerzy Buzek to create a special committee "to understand the state of the art of mafias in Europe" warning that special attention is needed during the crisis. "The main problem for companies nowadays is credit. Criminal organisations have big liquidity, so they can unfairly compete with legal companies. They are specialising in doing legal business with illegal systems," he said. Marietta Giannakou MEP: "At 0432 four consecutive explosions took place" How would you react if woken by the Police to say that a bomb has been placed at your home? For Greek MEP Marietta Giannakou of the centre right EPP group it became a reality on 29 October. "At 0420, the police came to our house, they rang the bell, and told us there was a bag with unknown contents at the entrance. In the beginning we were told to leave, but we were concerned that the bomb might explode as we came out or be detonated by remote control. " She describes the bombs going off: "Everything happened really quickly, because at 0432 four consecutive explosions took place, breaking all the entrance windows and heavily shaking a steel door. Four people have been arrested since, and more warrants have been issued." Why all this hatred? According to Ms Giannakou, this goes back to 2004-2007 when she was Minister for National Education and Religious Affairs, when in her own words "with a total of 21 laws she modernised the situation in Greece and adapted the universities to European standards". "I am not afraid" Her enemies say Ms Giannakou "provokes" them by staying in politics. She considers these terrorist groups (the continuation of groups like the "17th November") are easily mobilised by internet: "When a young man was killed by a policeman in December last year, within half an hour extremists were on the streets of all the Greek cities," she remembers. Asked about how the incident has affected her life, Ms Giannakou admits that she "does what she was doing before". "I am not afraid because politicians are public figures and it is natural that they inspire the sympathy or the hatred of some people who have reasons and interests to want something different. I am proud of what I did and I will continue doing it." She is of course worried about her 91-year old mother and her 17-year old daughter living with her in Greece, but luckily "the first one is a real personality who is not afraid and the latter is a child who immediately after the bombing went to school. "This is the answer to terrorism," says Ms Giannakou, "not being afraid". Carlos José Iturgaiz MEP : "A Dantesque image, with all the bones flying in the air" "I've lived under the threat of the Basque separatist terrorist group ETA for many years. Those killers threaten any person who doesn't want to dance to their tune, especially those who are against the independence of the Basque country and their criminal methods. They don't want to hear about democracy, freedom and human rights; therefore we're their