Answer given by Mr Figel' on behalf of the Commission (21 May 2007) Pursuant to Article 151 of the EC Treaty, Community action is to contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the Member States, while respecting their national and regional diversity and, at the same time, bringing the common cultural heritage to the fore. On that basis, it may support and supplement action by the Member States in conserving and safeguarding cultural heritage of European significance. The national authorities therefore have the primary responsibility for taking action in this area. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the implementation of structural policy interventions rests on the principle of partnership between the Member States and the Commission. In the framework of this partnership for the design, preparation, implementation, monitoring, audit and evaluation of co-funded interventions, the initiative to include specific projects in the Operational Programmes must be taken by the Greek authorities. According to Article 4, paragraph 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006 Regulation (EC) No 1080/2006 of Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the European Regional Development Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1783/1999, OJ L 210, 31.7.2006. , the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) in the period 2007‑13 shall, among other things, focus its assistance on ‘investments in culture including protection, promotion and preservation of cultural heritage; development of cultural infrastructure in support of socioeconomic development, sustainable tourism and improved regional attractiveness, and aid to improve the supply of cultural services through new higher added-value services’. In January 2006, the Greek authorities submitted the draft National Strategic Reference Framework (NSRF) for Greece in the programming period 2007‑13. The ‘promotion of culture as a vital factor of economic growth’ has been given an important place as one of the priorities of the 2007‑13 development strategy. Actions and projects in the field of culture are planned for inclusion in a variety of Operational Programmes, both national and regional. Therefore, a project related to the protection of the historical heritage of Gyaros Island could in principle be eligible for co-funding under the future Regional Programme ‘Crete and Aegean Islands’.