WRITTEN QUESTION E-4788/09 by Kriton Arsenis (S-D) to the Commission (7 October 2009) Subject: Illegal quarrying operation at Vachos tis Viannou in the prefecture of Heraklion In the prefecture of Heraklion in Crete, within the borders of the protected region of Omalos Viannou, which is part of the Natura 2000 network, a quarry has been operating since 2007 which has caused many problems and provoked strong protests from residents, regional organisations and the Heraklion section of the Ecological Intervention party. According to complaints from residents, in the autumn of 2008 the company operating the quarry began to extend it, cutting down centuries-old pines, and on 22 October a sudden fire destroyed a wooded area in the region. The Greek Ombudsman has informed the prefectural administration of Heraklion in writing of the effects of the operation of the quarry on the natural environment and residents’ lives. A letter from the legal team of WWF Greece describes the effects on residents’ health caused by the high levels of dust and noise, which should not exceed 50 db. In addition, it questions the legality of establishing a quarry in the area and describes the environmental impact assessment of the quarry as faulty, as there was never a prior assessment of the effects of the quarry on a protected area. According to the relevant law, it is prohibited to establish a quarry less than 500 metres from protected areas. Given that the Commission has been informed of other cases of quarries operating within protected areas in Greece, could the Commission provide the following information? 1. Is it aware of this case? 2. In the past, has it made recommendations to the Greek Government concerning compliance with the institutional framework in connection with the operation of quarries? 3. Does it consider that the operation of a quarry is a highly undesirable activity in an area that is protected under the Natura network? Does it consider that it is compatible with Community law? 4. Given that Greece had not transposed into national law Directive 2006/21/EC OJ L 102, 11.4.2006, p. 15. on the management of waste from extractive industries by the deadline of 1 May 2008, what action has the Greek Government taken to date in response to the Commission’s reasoned opinion?