Question for written answer P-002837/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Cornelia Ernst (GUE/NGL) (13 March 2012) Subject: Undercover investigators in a Europol operation against Internet activists At the end of February, in a joint operation, police forces in several countries arrested a number of individuals in Europe and Latin America suspected of being responsible for Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attacks on websites. Interpol and the EC law enforcement agency, Europol, played a leading role in the operation. The Interpol code name for the operation was ‘Operation Unmask’ (Interpol media release of 28 February 2012). Police forces in Argentina, Chile, Columbia and Spain were involved. Responsibility for the Latin American side of the operation lay with Interpol’s Latin American Working Group of Experts on Information Technology Crime. At the same time, Europol also reported that ‘Operation Thunder’ had made a successful strike against a ‘group of hackers’ suspected of several DDoS attacks (Europol press release of 28 February 2012). According to Europol, investigations by the Spanish National Police Cyber Crime Unit had been under way since June 2011. It was reported that. in addition to four arrests in Spain, servers had been confiscated in the Czech Republic and Bulgaria, where data had also been seized. Under the headline ‘Anonymous hackers claim they were infiltrated’, the Associated Press reported on 1 March 2012 that the suspects had not been pinpointed through the technical expertise of Europol or Interpol. Instead, according to Internet activists, undercover investigators had been deployed to operate on the Internet. What personnel from which departments were deployed by Europol in this operation, and which databases and technical aids (including analytical and forensic software) were used? How was cooperation with Interpol begun and how was it organised? How was personal data and other information processed by Europol during the operation, and where is this data (including in analysis files) being stored? How, to the Commission’s knowledge, were the arrested suspects identified? Is it the case that undercover investigators were used in the operation and, if so, to what extent was Europol involved or provided with reports in this connection?