the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee a report on the application of this Regulation. The report shall be accompanied, where appropriate, by proposals to adapt this Regulation . Amendment 55 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. To that end, the participating Member States shall communicate to the Commission relevant information on the application of this Regulation by their courts . Amendment 56 Proposal for a regulation Article 13 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment For those Member States participating pursuant to a decision adopted in accordance with the second or third subparagraph of Article 331(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this Regulation shall apply as from the date indicated in the decision concerned. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The rapporteur appreciates the need for this regulation, even though he realises that there will be much disappointment among citizens and practitioners about its limited scope. One of the reasons for this is the constraints imposed by recourse to the enhanced cooperation procedure. The rapporteur trusts that when the regulation has been adopted, other Member States will join in. By and large, the rapporteur considers that the changes discussed by the Council to the Commission’s proposal are sensible and he has therefore taken most of them over, albeit with some changes. He has also put forward a certain number of amendments of his own. First, he considers that the idea of leaving the scope virtually undefined is undesirable. He has therefore set out what does not fall within the Regulation in both a recital and an article. Secondly, he considers that before parties decide to make a choice of law or to forgo making a choice of law, the court seised should satisfy itself that they have had the benefit of proper legal advice. Thirdly, the rapporteur agrees that a Member State cannot be required to recognise as a marriage, even for the sole purpose of its dissolution, an act that is not considered to be such by the law of that State and that, in the same way, it would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity to impose on a judge in a Member State whose law does not provide for such an act a requirement to pronounce the divorce. For this reason, he commends the addition of Article 7a by the Council. However, without a provision on forum necessitatis (which it would be impossible to include in this regulation adopted under the enhanced cooperation procedure), the provision set out in Article 7a, whereby nothing in the regulation is to oblige the courts of a participating Member State whose law does not provide for divorce or does not deem the marriage in question valid for the purposes of divorce proceedings to pronounce a divorce by virtue of the application of the regulation, is extremely problematic. This is because the jurisdiction rules with regard to divorce and legal separation in Regulation No 2201/2003 are peremptory. The relevant articles of that regulation