for the 14 July conciliation. Inclusive discussions on priority issues for the European Parliament 30. The hearing on external policy aspects was held first. This was in line with the European Parliament's Resolution on the Commission's Annual Policy Strategy (APS), which was supported by a large majority in plenary, paragraph 4 of which criticised the Commission for "insufficient attention...to the vast and very rapid changes underway in the global economy". The second hearing focused on key internal policy challenges. The topics for the hearings were chosen to reflect priority issues set out in the APS resolution (paragraph 6). The mixture of both external speakers and high-level participants from within the EU institutions, and including chairs of parliamentary committees, was intended to maximise the relevance of discussions to EU policy making. Sections II and III provide more details on topics and speakers for each hearing and set out the main ideas raised by each speaker. Towards better value for money and the 2008/ 2009 review of the MFF 31. The hearings provided an opportunity for EU policy-makers and opinion formers to discuss issues of current policy relevance against a backdrop of the need to set policy priorities and ensure value for money in the EU budget. The rapporteur notes that the hearings also served to remind the other EU institutions that the Parliament is this year conducting cost-benefit studies on a number of areas of spending that will contribute to setting future priorities. 32. A broad approach to EU policies was taken at the hearings due to the short preparation time available. However, the hearings will be most effective if they become part of a process of strategic scrutiny of EU spending that delivers better value for money and policy prioritisation. The rapporteur envisages that the policy hearings should become an annual feature, at an early stage of the annual budget procedure, in order examine particular areas of spending and to stimulate thinking about the priorities for the budget exercise ahead. This process should include the active participation of the EP's specialised committees. Further, the hearings could help to foster a more strategic mindset regarding the EU budget among parliamentarians such that the EP might have a more effective role in ensuring that its priorities are fully taken into account in the forthcoming review of the MFF. On the basis of the comments made by Commissioner Grybauskaite at the internal policies hearing and by Minister Wideroos for the Council Presidency in COBU on 30 May, there appears to be significant support for a greater focus on delivering value for money in the annual budget procedure across the Commission, Council and Parliament II - Summary of the ideas discussed at the external aspects hearing on 29 May 33. This section briefly summarises the main points made and ideas raised by each of the invited expert speakers per section of the hearing. The summary covers their opening remarks and responses to questions from members. Based upon notes provided by the secretariat of the committee on budgets. . Trade and development 34. David O'Sullivan , Director-General,