(new) (10a) The development of new intervention tools to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB should meet the specific needs of the developing countries as determined by them, in particular access to effective, easy-to-use products which ordinary people can afford to buy. Justification The results of R&D for treating and caring for patients in developing countries will need to be specifically adapted and targeted to the conditions in which they will be used, meaning they need to be efficient, adapted to the conditions of administration in developing countries and be affordable. Amendment 12 Recital 11a (new) (11a) The EDCTP research and development programme, designed to make a specific contribution to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, could serve as a pilot scheme. A similar initiative should be launched as soon as possible in order to enable effective action against other neglected diseases (such as trypanosomiasis, Buruli ulcer, dengue fever, leishmaniasis, leprosy, lymphatic filariasis and bilhargiasis), which particularly affect poor people in developing countries. Justification The three transmissible diseases with which the ECDTP programme is concerned are not the only diseases neglected in the R&D process. Other fatal diseases are neglected too, and should be covered by a similar programme. Amendment 13 Recital 12 (12) The objective of the EDCTP Programme, the cost of which is estimated by participating States at €600 million over a five year period, is to accelerate the development of new clinical interventions to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries, particularly in Sub Saharan Africa. The EDCTP Programme has been drawn up with a view to stepping up cooperation and the networking of European national programmes, accelerating clinical trails of new products in the developing countries, helping to strengthen capacities in the developing countries and obtaining additional funds to fight these diseases. (12) The objective of the EDCTP Programme, the cost of which is estimated by participating States at €600 million over a five year period, is to accelerate the development of new clinical interventions to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis and their contributing factors within the target populations in the developing countries, particularly in Sub Saharan Africa. The EDCTP Programme has been drawn up with a view to stepping up cooperation and the networking of European national programmes, accelerating clinical trials of new products and improving existing products in the developing countries, helping to develop and strengthen capacities in the developing countries stepping up the transfer of technologies to these countries, and marshalling additional funds to undertake product focused research for these diseases. Justification - The EDCTP should focus on accelerating the development of the most promising new products that are appropriate for meeting developing country needs. - Transfer of technology is an indispensable element of any solution that pretends to be efficient and sustainable. - The EDCTP should be product focused rather than structure focused – it needs to produce results. Amendment 14 Recital 15 (15) In order to increase the impact of the EDCTP Programme, the Community should participate in this programme with a financial contribution of €200 million. (15) In order to increase the impact