powers than those prescribed by the Directive to waive regulations on prudential supervision. At UK level, under section 68 of the 1982 ICA, the Secretary of State may, upon request or with the consent from an insurer, waive the application of prudential supervision rules. The exercise of this power is not constrained by the standards mentioned in the Directive (i.e. “exceptional circumstances”, “temporarily”, “under properly reasoned decision”). The provision stipulates that the Secretary of State’s decision “may be subject to conditions”, clearly attributing to the regulator discretion to decide whether to impose those conditions or not. These seem to be broader powers than those prescribed by the Directive. Such powers entail the risk of being exercised in a very lenient way, undermining the application of harmonized standards. This raises some concerns as to the compatibility of section 68 of the ICA 1982 with the 3LD. See further arguments in the section covering Article 25 on the Solvency margin. Article 29 - Conditions of assurance and premiums (Article 34 of CD) Summary of objectives The aim of this article is to encourage Member States to adopt less trade restrictive practices. It prevents Member States requiring the prior approval of policy conditions, scales of premiums, technical bases used for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions and other printed documents the insurer may use in its dealing with policyholders. Text of the article Article 29 Member States shall not adopt provisions requiring the prior approval or systematic notification of general and special policy conditions, scales of premiums, technical bases used in particular for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions or forms and other printed documents which an assurance undertaking intends to use in its dealings with policy-holders. Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, for the sole purpose of verifying compliance with national provisions concerning actuarial principles, the Member State of origin may require systematic communication of the technical Bases used in particular for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions, without that requirement constituting a prior condition for an undertaking to carry on its business. Not later than five years after the date of application of this Directive, the Commission shall submit a report to the Council on the implementation of those provisions. Comments on UK transposition The Directive’s provision was transposed into UK legislation by Regulation 4 and Schedule 1, paragraph 11 of the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994. According to those rules, applicants are no longer required to submit information on the general and special policy or treaty conditions which the company proposes to use. This information was required by the Insurance Companies Regulations 1981 but since the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994 came into force the applicant only needs to provide information on “the nature of the commitments which the company proposes to cover” but not on the issues mentioned above. Link to the ELAS case Unclear. For further information on this point, see Part III on Regulatory Action. Divergences between the 3LD and implementing provisions : none found. Article 30 - Cancellation period (Articles 15 of 2LD and 35 of CD) Summary of