a foreign language. In addition, there may well be complex arguments around the issue of applicable law, but also in relation to the interaction between private international law and internal market rules. 24. The general conclusion, which the committee made in connection with UK policyholders, that litigation is not a viable alternative to the average policyholder due to potentially high costs and risks, also applies, in general terms, to non-UK policyholders, although the degree of risk to which litigants are exposed may vary depending on their respective domestic legal systems and the costs of accessing the same, including the availability of any legal aid schemes. (e) Remedies under Community law 25. The committee takes note of the case-law and institutional practice according to which the Commission is prevented from bringing infringement proceedings against Member States for past breaches of Community law which have since been remedied. The committee insists, however, that such a position creates an unfortunate lacuna in the judicial protection of individuals who are victims of violations of Community law by a Member State, which may only become apparent several years after the breach. The committee believes that the possibility of condemning Member States for past breaches, in addition to being of assistance to victims considering possible actions before national courts, would create a strong incentive for Member States to implement EU legislation correctly and on time. The committee also notes that the Commission has the power to investigate past breaches of Community law by undertakings in breach of certain Treaty rules where there is a legitimate interest in doing so. Recital 11 and Article 7(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 of 16 December 2002 on the implementation of the rules on competition laid down in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty (OJ L 1, 4.1.2003, p. 1). 26. Conversely, such a limitation on the powers of the Commission highlights the vital importance of the citizen's right of petition and the Parliament's right of inquiry in such situations. The Commission, in response to complaints it received from Equitable Life policyholders, argued that it could not investigate the content and application of the former regulatory regime in the UK, which had since been replaced. Parliament, by contrast, decided that the matters raised by the petitioners were sufficiently important to warrant an in-depth investigation and the consequent setting up of a Committee of Inquiry. Although Parliament itself does not have the power to award compensation to petitioners, it may make any recommendations it deems appropriate in this respect. 27. The Third Life Directive does not itself provide for any remedies and does not deal with, or make any reference to, the question of compensation. Such questions must therefore be determined according to general principles of Community law, including the duty of loyal cooperation enshrined in Article 10 of the EC Treaty. 28. The UK may in principle be held liable before national courts in damages to Equitable Life policyholders who have suffered loss as a result of the UK's failure to comply with the provisions of the 3LD. Certain failures