review of the MFF. The case of EU Special representatives 26. At the beginning of 2006 the Council decided to extend until 28 February 2007 the mandate of eight EUSRs (Bosnia Herzegovina, Central Asia, Middle East Peace Process, Moldova, South Caucasus, Great Lakes, FYROM, and Afghanistan). 27. In accordance with the current IIA of 6 May 1999, the European Parliament received copy of the financial statements for the Council Joint Actions extending these mandates. At the last joint meeting with Council Parliament members clearly considered that these texts did not provide any evaluation of the activities carried out by the EUSRs. 28. There is a need to discuss further the criteria for the appointment EUSRs, the definition of their tasks, lengths of their mandates and the complementarity and coordination with the Commission delegations and work/instruments under the first pillar. During the 2006 budgetary procedure the Committee on Foreign Affairs requested that Council establishes clear guidelines for the establishment of EUSR posts. Such guidelines should provide criteria for assessing the added value of Special Representatives. What actually defines the need and the success of a mandate? 29. At the joint meeting in question the Council presidency indicated that: (a) EUSRs were an expression of the EU political priorities and an important CFSP instrument for ensuring political consistency towards a particular geographical area; (b) They provided political steering to CFSP/ESDP missions; (c) (Where there was no CFSP/ESDP mission) they provided visibility to the Union and promoted a coordinated regional approach (e.g. in Central Asia) 30. On a specific question by MEPs why the Commission's Delegations could not carry out the same work the presidency indicated that: (a) When they were dealing with an entire region, EUSRs were often called upon to travel frequently (something which would hardly be compatible with the duties of EC Ambassadors, who were in charge of Community Assistance and Cooperation in relation to a given country). (b) When they were in charge of a CFSP/ESDP mission they could not be replaced by a Commission official since these missions involved a different chain of command (EUSRs were accountable to the Political and Security Committee and Mr Solana - not to the Commission). 31. These indications on the Council's part do not lessen the need for objective means to assess the advisability of creating EUSRs and a more thorough/objective assessment of their work and the financing requested from the budget. 32. As for the costs of the EUSRs, in 2004 five of them were financed from the EU budget to the tune of EUR 3, 1 million. In 2006, the amount is EUR 7, 5 million for eight of them. The average cost to the EU budget has therefore increased from EUR 0, 6 million/year/envoy to 0, 9 million, an increase in costs of 50%. Can this be fully accounted for by a shift from MS financing to EU budget financing for some costs? Which? 33. The 2007 PDB again proposes a doubling of appropriations for EUSRs. The proposed figure is EUR 14 million, i.e. an increase of + 448 % in