Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (16 November 2011) The Commission confirms that, on the basis of Decision No 1855/2006/EC establishing the Culture Programme http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2006:372:0001:0011:EN:PDF , the funding opportunities available under this EU action are not limited to cultural exchanges at professional level. In fact, the European Youth Music Festival was selected in 2008 In 2008, festivals could apply under operating grants with the strand ‘European cultural organisations’ — category Festival. In 2008, under this category c4 annual propositions and 16 multi-annual propositions were received. In 2009 and 2010 the calls were only opened to annual applications. The number of applications under the category Festival amounted respectively to 89 and 117. to receive a Framework Partnership Agreement covering three years (from 2008 to 2010) under this programme. The qualities of the festival were acknowledged, in particular the fact that it focuses on youth and education with the involvement of professional musicians as teachers, conductors and directors. However, it should be stressed that applications for funding are subject to a highly selective assessment process based on predefined award criteria published in the Culture Programme Guide http://eacea.ec.europa.eu/culture/programme/documents/2010/may/EN.pdf . This year, a call was opened for annual and multi-annual support under a new scheme specifically dedicated to festivals. Given the available budget and the number and high quality of applications, only 36 festivals out of the 674 that applied for funding could be supported. The European Youth Music Festival applications for both annual and multi-annual support were both significantly below the selection thresholds and they were therefore not retained. Besides the funding opportunities offered by the Culture Programme, the ‘European Music Festival for Young People’ and similar organisations dealing with youth exchanges may find additional co-funding opportunities under the Youth in Action Programme. Information about this programme may be found at: http://eacea.ec.europa.eu/youth/index_en.php