committee members pursuant to Rule 177, the committee shall elect a bureau consisting of a chairman and one, two or three vice-chairmen who shall be elected in separate ballots. Notwithstanding the provisions of the first subparagraph, for the period from January 2007 to July 2009 each committee bureau shall include four vice-chairmen. 2. Where the number of nominations corresponds to the number of seats to be filled, the election may take place by acclamation. Where this is not the case, or at the request of one-sixth of the members of the committee, the election shall take place by secret ballot. If there is only one candidate, the election shall be won by an absolute majority of the votes cast, these to include votes cast for and against. Where there is more than one candidate at the first ballot, the candidate who obtains an absolute majority of the votes cast, as defined in the preceding subparagraph, shall be elected. At the second ballot, the candidate who obtains the highest number of votes shall be elected. In the event of a tie, the oldest candidate shall be elected. Where a second ballot is required, new candidates may be nominated. CHAPTER 2 COMMITTEES - FUNCTIONING Rule 183 Committee meetings 1. A committee shall meet when convened by its chairman or at the request of the President. 2. The Commission and Council may take part in committee meetings if invited to do so on behalf of a committee by its chairman. By special decision of a committee, any other person may be invited to attend and to speak at a meeting. By analogy, the decision on whether to allow Members' personal assistants to be present at committee meetings shall be left to the discretion of each committee. The committee responsible may, subject to approval by the Bureau, organise a hearing of experts if it considers such a hearing essential to the effective conduct of its work on a particular subject. Committees asked for opinions may attend the hearing if they so wish. 3. Without prejudice to Rule 46(6) and unless a committee decides otherwise, Members may attend meetings of committees to which they do not belong but may not take part in their deliberations. Such Members may, however, be allowed by the committee to take part in its proceedings in an advisory capacity. Rule 184 Minutes of committee meetings The minutes of each meeting of a committee shall be distributed to all its members and submitted to the committee for its approval at its next meeting. Rule 185 Voting in committee 1. Any Member may table amendments for consideration in the committee responsible. 2. A committee may validly vote when one-quarter of its members are actually present. However, if so requested by one-sixth of its members before voting begins, the vote shall be valid only if the majority of the component members of the committee have taken part in it. 3. Voting in committee shall be by show of hands, unless a quarter of the committee's members request a vote by roll call. In this case