third countries, on the other , which have entered into force prior to the entry into force of this Directive ; (b) the European Social Charter of 18 October 1961, the amended European Social Charter of 3 May 1987 and the European Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers of 24 November 1977. (b) the European Social Charter of 18 October 1961, the amended European Social Charter of 3 May 1987 and the European Convention on the Legal Status of Migrant Workers of 24 November 1977. 5 . This Directive shall not affect the possibility for the Member States to adopt or retain more favourable provisions for persons to whom it applies. 2. This Directive shall not affect the possibility for the Member States to adopt or retain more favourable laws, regulations and administrative provisions for persons to whom it applies, provided that they are compatible with it . Amendment 20 Article 3b (new) Article 3b 1. This Directive shall not apply to pre-existing or recently introduced national rules which may contain provisions or criteria relating to family reunification and integration which are more favourable than those laid down in this Directive. 2. The implementation of this Directive may in no circumstances be used to justify lowering the level of protection already guaranteed by the Member States as regards family reunification in the areas covered by this Directive. Amendment 21 Article 3c (new) Article 3c Non-discrimination clause Member States shall apply the provisions of this Directive without discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, nationality, membership of a particular social group, health, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation. Amendment 22 Article 4, paragraph 1, point (a) (a) the applicant's spouse; (a) the applicant's spouse , irrespective of sex, according to the relevant national legislation, or the applicant's registered partner, irrespective of sex, according to the relevant national legislation or the applicant's unmarried partner, irrespective of sex, with whom the applicant has a durable relationship, if the legislation or practice of the Member State concerned treats unmarried couples and married couples in a corresponding manner and in accordance with the conditions laid down in any such legislation. Amendment 23 Article 4, paragraph 1, point (b) (b) the minor children of the applicant and of his/her spouse, including children adopted in accordance with a decision taken by the competent authority in the Member State concerned or a decision which is automatically enforceable due to international obligations of that Member State or must be recognised in accordance with international obligations; (b) the minor children of the applicant and of his/her spouse or unmarried or registered partner, as referred to in point (a) , irrespective of whether they were born in or out of wedlock, including children adopted in accordance with a decision taken by the competent authority in the Member State concerned or a decision which is automatically enforceable due to international obligations of that Member State or must be recognised in