WRITTEN QUESTION P-1380/10 by Proinsias De Rossa (S&D) to the Commission (8 March 2010) Subject: Theft of EU citizens' identities by those involved in the extra-judicial killing of Mr Mahmoud al-Mabhouh in Dubai Article 3(2) of the Treaty on European Union (TEU) states that the Union shall offer its citizens ‘an area of freedom, security and justice without internal frontiers’. Article 3(5) provides that ‘in its relations with the wider world, the Union shall uphold and promote its values and interests and contribute to the protection of its citizens’. Article 4(2) commits the Union to respecting Member States’ fundamental political and constitutional structures and their essential state functions, including maintaining law and order and safeguarding national security. On 22 February 2010, the Council acknowledged that the killing of Mahmoud al-Madhouh in Dubai on 20 January 2010, was not conducive to peace and stability in the Middle East and raised ‘profoundly disturbing’ issues for Europe. It strongly condemned the fact that those involved had used fraudulent passports and credit cards acquired through the theft of EU citizens’ identities and it sought to reassure EU citizens and the international community about the integrity of EU Member States’ passports. Does the Commission condemn this killing? Does it accept that these actions display a lack of respect by the organisers for Member States and that the stealing of EU citizens’ identities is an infringement of the sovereignty of the Member States concerned? What steps is it taking to ensure that all countries, including Israel, the main suspect, cooperate with the investigation by the Dubai authorities into these criminal acts and with the investigations being carried out by the Member States concerned into the theft of their citizens’ identity? Does it plan to take the same action it recently took in relation to Guinea and Sri Lanka if it is established that a state with which we have close relations is responsible for these criminal acts? Will it undertake a full review of the provisions and implementation of EC Regulation (EC) No 2252/2004 OJ L 385, 29.12.2004, p. 1. on standards for security features and biometrics in passports and travel documents issued by Member States, and other relevant EU legal instruments? What additional action is it taking or considering in this matter?