parties concerned, and by ensuring that adequate monitoring is carried out in order to keep the Community informed of progress. The services of a European coordinator should also be made available to other projects, at the request of the Member States concerned . (15) Member States should be invited to coordinate implementation of certain projects, in particular cross-border projects or sections of cross-border projects. (16) A more favourable context for the development and construction of trans-European energy networks should be created, mainly by providing stimulus for technical cooperation between the entities responsible for networks, by facilitating the implementation of authorisation procedures applicable for network projects in the Member States in order to reduce delays and by mobilising as appropriate the funds , instruments and financial programmes of the Community available to network projects. The Community should support Member States' measures taken in pursuit of that objective. (17) Since the budget allocated to the trans-European energy networks is mainly intended to finance feasibility studies, it is the Community Structural Funds, financial programmes and instruments that could , if necessary, enable funding to be provided for such interconnection networks , in particular interregional networks . (18) The identification of projects of common interest, their specifications and priority projects , in particular those of European interest, should be without prejudice to the results of the environmental impact assessment of the projects , plans or programmes. (19) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. . (20) The Commission should periodically draw up a report on the implementation of this Decision. (21) Information which must be exchanged or provided to the Commission under the provisions of this Decision is likely to be held, to a large extent, by companies. Therefore, Member States may have to cooperate with such companies in order to obtain that information. (22) Since this Decision covers the same subject matter and scope as Council Decision 96/391/EC of 28 March 1996 laying down a series of measures aimed at creating a more favourable context for the development of trans-European networks in the energy sector OJ L 161, 29.6.1996, p. 154. and Decision No 1229/2003/EC, those two Decisions should be repealed, HAVE ADOPTED THIS DECISION: Article 1 Subject matter This Decision defines the nature and scope of Community action to establish guidelines for trans-European energy networks. It establishes a series of guidelines covering the objectives, priorities and broad lines of action by the Community in respect of trans-European energy networks. These guidelines identify projects of common interest and priority projects , including those of European interest , among trans-European electricity and gas networks. Article 2 Scope This Decision shall apply: 1) in electricity networks, to: a) all high-voltage lines, excluding those of distribution networks, and to submarine links, provided that this infrastructure is used for interregional or international transmission or connection; b) any equipment or installations essential for the system