to meet its liabilities or to fulfil the reasonable expectations of policyholders or potential policyholders and for the purpose of ensuring that the company observes sound and prudent management principles. Failure to comply with a requirement imposed in the exercise of any of the powers mentioned above is an offence. According to the ICA 1982, the Secretary of State is equipped with comprehensive powers to discharge his duties and neither the formalities he has to observe nor the set of grounds that he must invoke may impose severe restrictions on him in exercising those powers. On the contrary, the exercise of most powers (other than the restriction of a company’s freedom to dispose of its assets) is subject to a flexible and vaguely defined threshold, i.e. the protection of the reasonable expectations of policyholders or potential policyholders. Ultimately, the Secretary of State may intervene on almost any occasion he considers desirable (rather than necessary) for the protection of policyholders and not just when specific infringements or shortcomings have been identified. Link to the ELAS case Three elements of this article link it to the ELAS case. First, the issue of the "powers and means” of the regulators; secondly, the question of ‘excessive respectful treatment’; thirdly, the obligation of regulators to ensure that ELAS complied with national law, which, as explained previously, includes the concept of PRE. 1. Powers and means It is necessary to ask, first of all, whether the UK regulator had the "powers and means necessary" to perform its functions at the time. Numerous pieces of evidence point to weaknesses in terms of ‘means’; on the other hand, the evidence received clearly demonstrates that, as far as ‘powers’ were concerned, the regulators had clearly enough. 1.A. The ‘means’ According to Mr. LAKE in H1, the " insurance regulators were seriously under-resourced throughout the 1990s ". He supports his claim by citing the Baird report (WE 17), likewise cited by Mr. HOLMES (WE 84 ) when referring to the breakdown of staff involved in insurance regulation on 1 January 1999: “... the total number of staff involved in the prudential regulation of approximately 200 insurance companies (…) was less than 135. By way of comparison, there were approximately 135 staff involved in the regulation of 400 authorised UK banks, building societies and UK branches of non-EU institutions” (WE 17, paragraph 2.23.5). Mr. NASSIM (WE7) similarly claims that "the regulators were not always sufficiently resourced and did not all possess the necessary skills to make an effective contribution to the regulatory process and responsibly exercise discretionary powers as intended by Parliament from 1973 onwards. As a consequence, they did not properly undertake their functions." The Penrose report (WE 16, par. 158) also states that " the DTI insurance division was ill-equipped to participate in the regulatory process. It had inadequate staff and those involved at line supervisor level in particular were not qualified to make any significant contribution to the process. Insurance division regulators were fundamentally dependent on GAD for advice on the mathematical reserves, implicit items, technical matters generally and PRE