practice. As far as key directives are concerned, the Commission may not only rely on complaints and press reports before it starts investigating possible problems. Instead, it should be proactive in looking into the practical application of key pieces of EU legislation throughout the Member States. It should first assess whether the application in practice complies with the EU requirements and secondly evaluate whether the results achieved correspond to the objectives originally pursued. The Commission should regularly report its findings to the European Parliament. If it is found that the objectives were not met, legislative amendments should be considered. There is also an urgent need to speed up infringement procedures. When deciding on opening or following-up infringement procedures, the Commission currently organises four meetings a year and all decisions (from the first letter of formal notice to the decision to seize the Court of Justice) are taken by the College of Commissioners. In its resolution of 16 May 2006 EP resolution on the Commission's 21st and 22nd Annual reports on monitoring the application of Community law (2003-2004) - P6_TA(2006)0202 . the European Parliament requested that " careful thought be given to the possibility of the internal procedures being shortened in the initial stage of proceedings by authorising each Member of the Commission to send letters of formal notice to the Member States within the field of his/her responsibility (as is already the practice in cases where a Member State has not transposed Community law into its national legislation within the set deadline) . Par.7. "Referring to the need for swift and targeted action in key areas, the EP requested in another resolution EP resolution on the implementation, consequences and impact of the internal market legislation in force - P6_TA(2006)0204 . that the Commission " establish a transparent fast-track infringement procedure for internal market test cases and that it inform Parliament on how its priority criteria for infringement handling ... are in practice screened and brought to the attention of complainants " Par.13. and urged the introduction of " sanctions for non-compliance ." Par.14. The importance of implementation might be further underlined by the creation of a Commissioner directly responsible for the transposition and application of EC law, assisted by a dedicated task-force for Transposition and Application' inside the Commission. If the Commission is really committed to upgrading its performance in this key issue, the designation of a Commissioner specifically responsible for this task would send not only a clear political message but also help to coordinate all the efforts which are currently undertaken separately and to varying degrees by the different Directorates General and the General Secretariat of the EC. This Commissioner would group under his responsibility all horizontal departments dealing with implementation and be responsible for the coordination of the other vertical units in all Directorates-General. Parliament has already suggested that Member States also " appoint political figures responsible at national level for infringement policy" EP resolution P6_TA(2006)0202 , par. 16. and called on the Commission to ask Member States "to guarantee retroactive application of the Community provisions which have been