candidate country for the alignment with the acquis communautaire ; 56. Stresses the geopolitical importance of the Black Sea region for the Union's energy security and for the diversification of its energy supplies; 57. Calls on the Member States to reinforce energy relations with the countries of Latin America in the context of existing and future association and cooperation agreements; 58. Calls on Member States to use the euro as an instrument to structure international financial relations in order to reduce fluctuations arising from the invoicing of purchases of oil and gas; calls on the European Union to examine the issue of foreign investment in the European energy sector by applying the reciprocity clause; indeed believes that as long as reciprocity concerning access to markets is not guaranteed the European Union should, as proposed by Parliament and the Commission, apply an effective third country clause regarding the acquisition of a transmission system or transmission system operator; 59. Calls on the Commission to analyse different ways in which the volatility of oil and gas prices can be reduced; notes in particular the role of transparency and sufficient spare production capacity as well as of the catalytic effect of financial speculation on price formation on the market; rejects the use of strategic oil stocks to reduce price fluctuations on economic grounds; 60. Calls on Member States to intensify and coordinate their actions with a view to securing supply routes, particularly maritime routes; 61. Calls on Member States to identify best practices at international level and to step up technological cooperation with these countries so as to enhance knowledge and experience in this area; in particular, calls on Member States to step up their technological cooperation with Japan, whose economy is totally dependent on imported energy and which has developed one of the most efficient energy systems in the world; 62. Notes that China's growing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions represent a huge challenge to environmental goals and security of energy supply; calls for an enhanced cooperation between the EU and China to promote the transfer of low carbon technology, in particular energy efficiency and renewables; stresses the critical importance of developing and deploying carbon capture and storage (CCS) in China, given the importance of coal to its economy; 63. Notes the importance of the EU-OPEC energy dialogue and encourages the Commission to intensify the energy dialogue with Norway; Ways of responding to crises by managing oil and gas stocks 64. Welcomes the Commission's intention to revise Directive 2006/67/EC of 24 July 2006 imposing an obligation on Member States to maintain minimum stocks of crude oil and/or petroleum products (codified version) OJ L 217, 8.8.2006, p. 8. and proposes the publication of weekly rather than monthly data as at present to render the market transparent and avoid a disproportionate reaction to the American situation; 65. Notes the failure of the Member States to demonstrate solidarity, with regard to increasing the amount of gas available to the affected Member States during the recent gas crisis between Ukraine and Russia; urges the Council and the Commission