non-attached MEPs, said that Chancellor Merkel "deserved a great deal of respect for what you have achieved during your life". He called on Chancellor Merkel to be bold and concentrate on the democratic legitimacy of the EU. As Roman Herzog put it "Europe he said can not function without democratic legitimacy." He ended by calling on Chancellor Merkel "not to bypass the people". British and Irish speakers Timothy KIRKHOPE (EPP-ED, UK), leader of the British Conservative Delegation, began by congratulating Chancellor Merkel on the early meeting with the American President. For too long, he said, there has been an apparent schism between Europe and the United States, and it was time to move things in the right direction. You are, he said, laying some solid ground work for future cooperation. Mr Kirkhope also welcomed some of the key measures outlined in the Presidency work programme – the emphasis on economic reform, the need for less regulation and also the emphasis on the fight to combat climate change. Mr Kirkhope said :"as a British Conservative, needless to say I do not welcome the emphasis on resurrecting the European Constitution. I think that this could reinforce a sense of alienation within Europe and I think that would be unhelpful and would complicate matters at a time when we need to make some progress." Speaking in Irish, Bairbre DE BRÚN (GUE/NGL, UK) said that her group would continue to work to ensure that Irish gained full and equal status. She expressed concern that the German Presidency would focus on the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty which showed "a disregard" for the democratic results in France and the Netherlands. Rather, the presidency should focus on tackling inequality, poverty and racism as well as strengthening the social welfare of Europe. Ms de Brún also stressed the importance of defending civil liberties, human rights, fair trade and working to combat global inequalities. Finally, Ms de Brún called on the German Presidency to listen to the voices of European citizens. Andrew DUFF (ALDE, UK) said that for the German Presidency to succeed in resolving the crisis, it will have to demand and expect the faithful support from all the Member States. He said: "Do you agree that the recent Spanish-Luxembourg proposal to coral the 18 Member States in a separate process will not only accentuate the division between the two camps, but also expose brutally the wide division among the 18 themselves? Will you please discourage such an initiative?" Chancellor Merkel's response Responding to the debate, Chancellor MERKEL said that on the constitutional treaty, Mr Cohn-Bendit was wrong to portray the Council as a dark chamber compared to the bright light of Parliament. MEPs were a vital link in creating public opinion, she said, but people in democratically elected governments also knew how that should act. She was not a great enthusiast for referendums, but she was clear that it was for each Member State to legitimise a treaty in its own way. “The starting point is the existing treaty, I am sceptical about getting consensus on something else,”