WRITTEN QUESTION E-0340/10 by Ioannis A. Tsoukalas (PPE) to the Commission (8 February 2010) Subject: Use of Public Sector Information (PSI) Aware of the potential for innovation and economic development which easy access to the Public Sector Information (PSI) in the digital age may afford, Directive 2003/98/EC OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, p. 90. was issued laying down the conditions under which public services may allow private access to public sector sources of information. Public Sector Information (such as maps, satellite images, legislation and case-law, statistics, various archives and registers of organisations, etc.) may be used as the raw material for innovative services and products for the benefit of European citizens (for instance, car navigation systems, public information applications, etc.). The value of the EU PSI market is estimated at over EUR 27 billion. Despite the existence of the directive, access by companies and private individuals to PSI continues to be extremely difficult at European level. Complicated agreements are needed for issuing re-use licences, and there are many bureaucratic obstacles which unjustifiably hamper access to information without good reason. By contrast, in many other countries (the US, Japan, Korea, Singapore, etc.) PSI is widely used to develop innovative services, providing added value to citizens of these countries and boosting economic activity. Nevertheless, the Commission has announced in Communication COM(2009)0212 that it does not intend to amend the directive. In view of the above, will the Commission say: 1. What data does it have about the transposition of Directive 2003/98/EC into national law? How does it view progress made in this area? Does it have any data on the creation of IT systems which have used PSI in Member States? Does it stand by its position not to revise the directive? 2. How does it judge the proposal to create a ‘PSI Market Observatory’ — a proposal which is supported by various interested parties — to monitor developments in the sector and coordinate the actions taken?