and for the implementation of its decisions in those fields." 12. Re Article 85 12. " The Commission undertakes to make a report by 1 January 2006 on the application of the provisions of the new Financial Regulation and, in particular, on the discontinuation of centralised ex ante controls, and, if necessary, to submit appropriate proposals to the Council." 13. Re Article 87 13. " The European Parliament and the Council wish the Court of Auditors to have the possibility of commenting on the general rules applicable to the internal audit function." 14. Re Article 108 14. " The European Parliament and the Council note the Commission's intention of submitting a proposal for a Framework Regulation in which the overall criteria regarding selection and the awarding of grants for the functioning of the bodies provided for in Article 108(1)(b) may be specified. 15. The three institutions undertake to achieve this objective so as to ensure that the Regulation comes into force as from the 2004 financial year." 15. " The Commission undertakes to take into account the remarks entered in the budget in the context of implementation." 16. Re Article 146 16. "The provisions of Article 146 are without prejudice to the possibility for the institutions to conclude agreements on the procedures for implementing the said Article." 17. Re Article 183 17. "Before adopting the Regulation laying down the rules for implementing the Financial Regulation, the Commission undertakes to submit draft implementing rules for an opinion from all the institutions. It also undertakes to take account, as far as possible, of the opinion delivered by the latter when it adopts the implementing rules. The Commission will ensure that the draft implementing rules are submitted in accordance with a timetable which does not delay entry into force of the provisions of the Financial Regulation which it is the purpose of those implementing rules to implement." Re Article 185 18. "Before the summer of 2002, the Commission will submit a proposal for amending the basic Regulations of the bodies referred to in Article 185 in such a way as to adjust those Regulations to the provisions of the said Article. The Commission hopes that the legislative authority will give due priority to the examination of the proposal so that it comes into force concomitantly with the new Financial Regulation." 19. "Before adopting on the basis of Article 185 the framework financial regulation for the bodies set up by the Communities, the Commission undertakes to submit a draft for the opinion of the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors. This consultation should replace the consultation on the individual financial regulation of each of the bodies mentioned. The institutions undertake to give their opinions within six weeks of receiving the Commission's draft. The Commission will also consult the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors in the event of revision of the framework financial regulation." Re statement of assurance 20. " The Court of Auditors, the Commission and both branches of the budgetary authority , fully respecting the independence and competence