Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (12 April 2006) The Commission is not aware of the facts described by the Honourable Member. The site ‘Cuenca del río Lozoya y sierra Norte’ (ES3110002) has been proposed by the Spanish authorities as a site of Community importance (pSCI) under the Habitats Directive Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora, OJ L 206, 22.7.1992. . It includes the whole area designated by the Spanish authorities as a special protected area (SPA) under the Birds Directive Council Directive 79/409/EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds, OJ L 103, 25.4.1979. ‘Alto Lozoya’ (ES0000057). The Vulnerability section of the standard data form, where the nature and extent of pressures upon the site from human and other influences are indicated, points out a number of activities that could potentially negatively affect the habitats and species present in the site; among them, urban projects are highlighted. According to Article 4(4) of the Birds Directive, Member States shall take appropriate steps, in respect to the special protected areas, to avoid pollution or deterioration of habitats or any disturbance affecting the birds. In addition, Article 6(3) of the Habitats Directive states that any plan or project not directly connected to, or necessary to, the management of the site but likely to have an effect thereon, either individually or in combination with other plans or projects, shall be subject to appropriate assessment of its implications for the site in view of the site’s conservation objectives. In light of the conclusions of such an assessment and subject to the provisions of the Habitats Directive, the competent authorities shall agree to the plan or project only after having ascertained that it will not adversely affect the integrity of the site concerned and, if appropriate, after having obtained the opinion of the general public. On the basis of the information provided by the Honourable Member, the plan may be subject to a strategic environmental assessment, in accordance with Directive 2001/42/EC Directive 2001/42/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 27 June relating to the evaluation of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment, OJ L 197, 21.7.2001. . The information submitted has not provided sufficient details for the Commission to assess whether or not the obligations of the abovementioned directives are being respected. The Commission will therefore contact the Spanish authorities requesting relevant information regarding the implementation of the directives in relation to this case.