Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of Commission (30 August 2005) Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty provides that: ‘Save as otherwise provided in this Treaty, any aid granted by a Member State or through state resources in any form whatsoever which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods shall, insofar as it affects trade between Member States, be incompatible with the common market’. Furthermore, according to Article 2 of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of the former Article 93 of the EC Treaty, OJ L 83, 27.3.1999 . ‘any plans to grant new aid shall be notified to the Commission in sufficient time by the Member State concerned’. Such notification is necessary even if the Member State behind an aid measure believes the measure is compatible with the common market pursuant to Article 87(2) of the EC Treaty. The Commission therefore has to adopt a formal decision on the measure in question after checking, where appropriate, that it is compatible with the common market. In particular, as regards aid having a social character intended to open up the outermost regions of Europe and the application of the derogation from Article 87(2)( a), the Commission must check, in the light of the communication on state aid in the air transport sector, Commission Communication 94/C 350/07 on the application of Articles 92 and 93 of the Treaty in the aviation sector, OJ C 350, 10.12.1994. that — the aid is actually granted to the final consumers; — the aid is of a social character, i.e. in principle it may cover only certain categories of passengers such as children, the disabled, people on low incomes, etc.; — the aid is granted without discrimination as to the origin of the services, i.e. whichever air carriers from the European Economic Area operate the air link concerned. In particular this means that there may not be any obstacle to access to this link for Community air carriers. The UK authorities may certainly introduce a system similar to that enjoyed by Corsica provided the measure concerned complies with all the above conditions and is notified to and approved by the Commission. If the services are regarded as being of general interest, an exemption from the obligation regarding prior notification to the Commission would be possible under the conditions laid down in the Commission decision concerning the application of Article 86(2) of the EC Treaty to state aid in the form of public service compensation granted to certain undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest. This will, for example, be the case for compensation for air links where the annual traffic does not exceed 300000 passengers.