Joint answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-2327/09 , E-3250/09 (26 May 2009) The Commission would refer the Honourable Member to its communication for the Spring European Council — Driving European recovery — of 4 March 2009 COM(2009)114 final. and to its proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 2006/48/EC and 2006/49/EC Capital Requirements Directive; COM(2008)0602 final. . The latter is being subject of a codecision procedure COD(2008)0191. . More specifically, the Commission is reviewing the prudential treatment of bank's trading activities and will reinforce both the level and the quality of capital. In particular, it will: — reinforce capital requirements for trading book activities (i.e. the capital requirements related to assets that banks hold for short-term resale). This proposal will be introduced in the context of the revision of the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), to be presented by June 2009; — upgrade capital requirements for complex securitisations, both in the banking and the trading book. This proposal will also be introduced in the context of the revision of the Capital Requirements Directive (CRD), to be proposed by June 2009; — mitigate any excessive procyclicality of existing capital requirements through measures including the possibility of building up additional reserves in good times. It is also crucial to provide good and transparent accounting treatment of these counter-cyclical buffers (‘dynamic provisioning’). Conversely, banks should be allowed to reduce capital buffers during difficult times, thus ensuring adequate availability of capital over the whole economic cycle. A report on ‘excessive’ pro-cyclicality in the CRD will be presented by the end of 2009; — initiate a rolling programme of actions to introduce a far more consistent set of supervisory rules. Key differences in national legislation stemming from exceptions, derogations, additions made at national level or ambiguities contained in current directives should be identified and removed, so a harmonised core set of standards is defined and applied throughout the Member States; — work on measures supplementary to risk-based requirements in the CRD. In the G20 and the Basel Committee fora, the Commission has already raised the need for a new and simple metric to supplement the existing risk-based capital requirements (e.g. addressing leverage and/or liquidity risk). The international dimension and the need for coordination and coherence are important when developing this work. Nevertheless, the specific needs of the EU banking system may require the EU to adopt different measures that are most suited to its own needs. The Commission will present proposals in autumn 2009.