adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38. (Amendment 40) Article 18(2), 1st indent - the average of prices recorded for a significant proportion of Community output on representative wholesale markets or in representative ports during the three fishing years immediately preceding the year for which the price is fixed, - the average of prices recorded for a significant proportion of Community output on representative wholesale markets or in representative ports during the five fishing years (other than those with the highest and the lowest figures) immediately preceding the year for which the price is fixed, (Amendment 41) Article 21(3)(a) and (b) (a) The financial compensation shall be equal to: (a) The financial compensation shall be equal to: i. 87.5% of the withdrawal price applied by the producers" organisation concerned for quantities withdrawn not exceeding 2% of the quantities put up for sale each year; i. 87.5% of the withdrawal price applied by the producers" organisation concerned for quantities withdrawn not exceeding 5% of the quantities put up for sale each year; ii. 80% of the withdrawal price applied by the producer organisation concerned for quantities withdrawn which exceed 2% but not 5% of the quantities put up for sale each year; ii. 75% of the withdrawal price applied by the producer organisation concerned for quantities withdrawn which exceed 5% but not 10% of the quantities put up for sale each year; iii. from the 2003 fishing year, 50% of the withdrawal price applied by the producer organisation concerned for quantities withdrawn which exceed 5% but not 8% of the quantities put up for sale each year; for the 2001 and 2002 fishing years, it shall be equal to 70% and 60% of the withdrawal price, respectively. iii. from the 2003 fishing year, 50% of the withdrawal price applied by the producer organisation concerned for quantities withdrawn which exceed 10% but not 12% of the quantities put up for sale each year; for the 2001 and 2002 fishing years, it shall be equal to 70% and 60% of the withdrawal price, respectively. (b) No financial compensation shall be granted in respect of quantities withdrawn exceeding 8% of the quantities put up for sale by each producer organisation. (b) No financial compensation shall be granted in respect of quantities withdrawn exceeding 10% of the quantities put up for sale by each producer organisation. (Amendment 42) Article 21(6), 1st subparagraph 6. Where producer organisations carry out the withdrawals referred to in paragraph 1, they shall grant their members, for the quantities withdrawn from the market, an indemnity at least equal to the sum of the financial compensation calculated in accordance with paragraph 3(a), plus an amount equal to: 6. Where producer organisations carry out the withdrawals referred to in paragraph 1, they shall grant their members, for the quantities withdrawn from the market, an indemnity at least equal to the sum of the financial compensation calculated in accordance with paragraph 3(a), plus an amount equal to 10% of the withdrawal price applied by that organisation. - 10% , in the case