to Section 45 was however limited to cases when the purpose of policyholder protection was considered not achievable by the exercise of powers under Sections 38-44 and to preclude " restricting the company's freedom to dispose of its assets." ICA 82(45)(2). Amendments to ICA 82 introduced with the implementation of 3LD and taking effect from 1st July 1994 " introduced new criteria for 'sound and prudent management' set out in a new Schedule 2C to the Act, and added to the grounds on which, under section 11, the Secretary of State could direct that an insurance company should cease writing new business, that any of the criteria of sound and prudent management were not being, might not be, or might not have been fulfilled in respect of the company." see WE-CONF25, para.4-5. In an international comparison, ES-1 considers that UK supervisors " preferred to avoid the use of formal statutory powers wherever possible". Thus while the UK and Irish supervisors had similar enforcement powers, the German insurance supervisor's powers were " more extensive and specific and would support a more interventionist approach ... The German system contemplated a more intrusive system of monitoring and inspection than in other Member States, allowing representatives of the supervisory authority to attend supervisory board meetings, providing for ad hoc inspections without the need to show due cause, up to the replacing of members of management and of the supervisory board." Referring to enforcement of CoB rules, the use of intervention powers by PIA in relation to life insurers (such as restrictions on dealing with assets or a requirement to maintain certain assets) could be exercised only by the prudential supervisor (DTI/HMT) and were outside the PIA’s powers. The proposed use of intervention powers by the PIA/SIB had to be notified in advance to the DTI/HMT, which had a power of veto over the proposed intervention action. see ES-2, chapter 6 and 7. 6. Regulators' Liability The subject of regulators' liability has been elaborated in more detail in Part V of this report As far as Regulators' liability is concerned, it may be worth noting that under Common Law a supervisory authority may be held liable only for the tort of 'misfeasance in public office'. This would require a proven element of 'bad faith', with liability limited to losses that could have been foreseen by the authority as a likely consequence of its action/omission see also the conclusions of WE71. . Self-regulating Organisations (SRO) and their officers were not liable in damages for actions or omissions in their functions, unless the act or omission was proved to have been done in 'bad faith' Financial Services Act 1986, section 187(1). . Under EC law, supervisory liability is limited to 'serious breaches' in the implementation of EC law but only if the infringement has affected individual rights and there is a direct causal link with the damage sustained by the injured party. Recent ECJ rulings appear to have further weakened supervisory liability, asserting supervisory authorities' responsibility to act 'only in the public interest' , meaning that supervising functions are