consistent application of the IFRS in the EU The Roundtable comprises representatives of the IASB, CESR, EFRAG, Fédération des Experts Comptables Européens (FEE), Businesseurope, auditing firms and the Commission; it discusses key issues without in any way providing interpretations of existing standards. launched by the Commission at the beginning of this legislative period did not live up to expectations surrounding its ability to give clear expression to the Community point of view and interests; 22. Stresses that consistency in adoption and application is essential to the success of the IFRS, but recalls that these are principle-based standards and that, therefore, consistency should not be pursued to the detriment of professional judgement; 23. Agrees with the Council on the point that the conclusions of the abovementioned Roundtable must be taken into account to a much greater extent in the IASB work on standards; 24. Notes that there are numerous players involved in the Community endorsement procedure; points out, in particular, that the Commission receives input from a number of players whose competences clearly overlap; points out that this overlap offers potential for enhancing efficiency and transparency; 25. Considers that the tools the Community has for making its views known (Accounting Regulatory Committee (ARC), EFRAG) do not allow it to deal on an equal footing with states whose structures are founded on the centralised powers of regulators and supervisors (e.g. Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and SEC for the USA, Accounting Standards Board (ASBJ) and Financial Services Authority for Japan); 26. Takes the view that creating a more streamlined EU structure, taking into account national structures for accounting issues could, especially if, where appropriate, some existing bodies were abolished, contribute to simplification and thereby also strengthen the role that the EU should play at global level; calls on the Commission to develop and put forward a proposal, in consultation with the Parliament, the Member States and Committee of European Securities Regulators (CESR) to establish a EU structure constituting a legitimate international partner and guaranteeing uniform interpretation and application of standards; 27. Expresses satisfaction with the way in which it has exercised its authority in this field and points out that, within the framework of the revised comitology procedure, the Parliament will be even more involved in the development and endorsement of international accounting standards; notes, however, that Parliament is formally involved only in the last phase of the endorsement procedure; calls for a guarantee, as a time-saving measure, that the Parliament will already be involved in the procedure when the IASB work programme is drawn up and a draft new accounting standard is considered, in order to avoid a EU version of IFRS or the need for subsequent modifications; 28. Believes it would be to the detriment of EU publicly traded companies if carve-outs from IFRS are used other than as a last resort; 29. Asks that an accounting standard should be drawn up and modified only when it has been ensured that there is a clear and beneficial need for it, and following a proper preliminary consultation process; 30. Takes the view that