limited success. When framework directives do not go into details, implementing "comitology" measures can contain sensitive political and commercial issues which merit close Parliamentary scrutiny and cannot be delegated to executives. The European Parliament's role will need to be reinforced if greater reliance is made on such measures, as is indeed recognised by the Commission. A possible way of doing this could be a revision of the 1999 Comitology Decision to ensure Parliament and Council equality in monitoring and controlling implementing measures. In particular, the envisaged extension of the delegation of executive powers to the Commission within framework directives is unacceptable if not completed by a call-back mechanism for secondary legislation to be activated in cases of insufficient progress, or of implementing measures taken in contradiction or beyond the scope of the essential elements defined in the framework directives, or else raising issues of particular sensitivity. As regards implementation of EU measures in the wider sense, it sounds sensible for the Commission to establish criteria to focus its work in investigating possible breaches of Community law. On the other hand, why is this needed at all? The task should be a simple one, since all that the Commission has to do is to fully use its existing powers. The problem seems to be that the Commission appears reluctant to use them, for fear of offending the Member States. The idea of greater flexibility that the White Paper talks about in relation to the implementation of Community legislation "in a way that takes account of regional and local conditions" carries considerable risks. If legislation is implemented in this way, then any idea of getting Member States up to more or less the same standard may be a lost cause, especially since the EU is currently trying to keep the acquis intact while negotiating with the Member States; Voluntary agreements may speed up the process of legislation and have the advantage of a more direct involvement of stakeholders. On the other hand they also pose a great number of problems as long as it is not clear when they would be appropriate and how and when the European Parliament would be involved. They should be accompanied by "fail-safe mechanisms", including when and how to introduce legislation if voluntary agreements fail. The ideas of improved consultation mechanisms and sources of expertise are to be welcomed, although what is meant by minimum standards needs to be more carefully spelled out. There is a need for a better preparatory phase, and for an assessment of whether legislation is needed and its possible impact. There should be an open and more transparent system of consultation and expert advice and one that does not rely so much on the "usual suspects" but is not too bureaucratic or corporatist either. There does not need to be a new network of intermediaries between the concerned public and decision-makers. It seems to be a good idea to develop criteria for establishment of regulatory agencies. However, it must be explained how these criteria would apply to the new agencies currently being set up