the addition of a cultural component . Cooperation in the food and agriculture sector, which is of strategic importance, should now be one of the UfM’s priorities, with a view to moving towards greater convergence among Euro-Mediterranean agricultural policies. c. Increasing and guaranteeing funding The Barcelona Summit must put an end to the underfunding of projects announced by the UfM . The funding of planned projects must rely on a combination of public and private funds, which must be developed and established on a permanent basis: - in the period leading up to the end of the 2007-2013 financial perspectives, the Union’s financial contribution – which is essential – must not affect existing or planned Euro-Mediterranean regional projects; the EU’s forthcoming financial perspectives for 2014-2020 must substantially increase the funds allocated to the UfM; - financial institutions at national, European (EIB-FEMIP, EBRD) and international (World Bank) level are already active in the region. Synergies must be identified in connection with major projects. This will be a task for the secretariat; - consideration must be given to setting up a Euro-Mediterranean investment and development bank, inter alia in order to consolidate the North-South parity basis on which the UfM operates; - the recent launch of investment funds for the financing of UfM projects is a positive step. The development of similar initiatives must be encouraged. It is also important to work on improving the economic and legal environment in third countries, making it a priority to set up viable and credible sub-regional financial institutions able to attract foreign investment. Existing investment protection agreements are bilateral, and vary widely. A common investment protection charter for countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean and the establishment of an insurance and financial guarantee system for investors would harmonise and enhance such protection. Lastly, the capital flows represented by the funds migrants send to people in countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean are crucially important for the economic development of the recipient countries. Consideration must be given to ways of simplifying such transfers, in particular by endeavouring to reduce the costs incurred. **** Europe and its neighbours south and east of the Mediterranean are now at a crossroads in their shared history. There is virtually no other option but to join forces in a spirit of solidarity in order to address the major global challenges whose effects are being felt on a daily basis on the shores of the Mediterranean. In Barcelona, the heads of state and government will have to show pragmatism and vision in order to use the region’s current complexity as a starting-point for building a common Euro-Mediterranean future for more than 800 million people. They must fulfil citizens’ legitimate aspirations for peace, stability and prosperity and their desire to live in a society based on the rule of law and mutual respect. Complementarity and joint responsibility are the best tools for enabling Mediterranean diversity to flourish in such a way as to contribute to a prosperity in which all citizens can share. 8.4.2010 OPINION of the Committee on Industry, Research