coherence, which undermined its effectiveness, as proven by a number of major bank failures and financial scandals in the 1980s and 1990s which rocked the UK financial industry." Dr. Kern Alexander cited the following UK financial sector crisis prior to the Equitable Life case: Johnson Matthey Bankers insolvency (1984), BCCI collapse (1991), Lloyd's scandal (1994), Barings Bank collapse (1995), endowment mortgages scandal (1999). These cases suggest that an inherent weakness existed in the UK banking and insurance supervising system throughout the 1980s and 1990s, prompting the regulatory reform as defined in the Financial Services and Market Act (FSMA) 2000 . In WE7, Mr. Michael NASSIM detailed allegations of operational failure by the UK regulators, stating that "the Regulators did not intervene in any effective way, although they should have known that such over-bonusing would have inevitable effects. In other words, the Regulator, by inaction, allowed the Society to be put in grave solvency peril, both in immediate terms and in constructive terms. The claimants’ losses flowed primarily from reckless behaviour by the Society’s management which over the period 1973-1987 had critical consequences. This behaviour was of a kind which fell squarely within the scope of the Regulator’s duties and powers to monitor, warn and compel retraction. The Regulator took no action or no effective action and allowed actuarial etiquette to guide its conduct instead of statutory duty. As a result the Prudential Regulator became equally responsible for the losses in question." Mr. NASSIM also claimed that "the regulators failed to question why the Society inappropriately extended its chronic over-allocation by using inappropriate adjustments and subordinated loans which anticipated future premium income and impacted adversely upon future profits. As a result they failed to digest the prudential and PRE implications. The regulators could not detect the reinsurance arrangements made to cover the Hyman position and did not examine ELAS’ public statement in February 2000 that losing Hyman would cost members no more than £50 million, when reinsurance to the tune of £800 million was nominally being sought to cover the same situation." He concludes saying "if the Regulator had insisted on truly prudent action at that time or earlier, all final (i.e. discretionary) bonuses would have been suspended indefinitely until the financial condition of the Society could be fully established. In sum, therefore, there is sufficient evidence to maintain that operational regulatory failure was total over an extended period, and that in the later stages it was deliberate, such that it had the effect of extinguishing many just claims without opportunity of recompense. Had the regulators halted this progression, an eventually fraudulent position would have been averted, which effectively they condoned by allowing the Compromise Scheme to take place ... Total operational failure of this ultimate kind can only be due to an overall deficiency in ethically responsible attitude. Others have wished further to maintain that, over and above organisational and operational deficiencies, regulatory failure must also have been collusive." The memo WE-CONF6 claimed that " it is inescapable that the more someone knew about conventional assurance methods, the less likely he was