institutions have confidence in each other." He said fundamentalism of any flavour had no place in our societies, and pointed to Turkey as an example of European democratic values being embedded in an Islamic society. It would be wrong to turn our backs on Turkey in these circumstances, he argued. Leader of the ALDE group, Graham WATSON (UK) stated that no civilised person could excuse the indiscriminate barbarity of the July attacks in London. After other terrorist attacks in recent years, he welcomed plans to strengthen security, but said these must be measured, proportionate and values driven. "I disagree when Charles Clarke says that the human rights of the victims of terrorism are more important that those of the terrorists. Human rights are indivisible. The public may not like it, but suspected terrorists do have rights, to a fair trial, to be interrogated and not tortured by the police, and to serve a sentence in a European prison if convicted." Suspending rights such as those of the ECHR would lead to summary justice - the "justice of High Noon" which leads to deaths of innocents like Jean Charles de Menezes. "The state is the main protector of security and liberty. The EU must guarantee both proportionately. If you follow that route, you will have our support," he told Mr Clarke. Jean LAMBERT (UK) for the Greens/EFA group welcomed the fact that the Home Secretary Charles Clarke had talked about organised crime in his speech. If the EU were to alter civil liberties because of terrorism, then terrorists had already won part of the battle. Human rights, she said, were universal not divisible. The UK had learned that convictions over proper police investigation and evidence would not work and were counterproductive. Mrs Lambert warned against the dismantling or nuancing of the European Convention on Human Rights pointing out that the UK had already temporarily withdrawn from Article 5. The EU, she said, should build on the European Convention of Human Rights. Mrs Lambert looked forward to examining the Commission communication on radicalisation and terrorist recruitment and wondered what would be the foreign policy ramifications. Overall, she underlined the importance of safeguards, political oversight and means of redress. Francis WURTZ (FR) for the GUE/NGL group stated that nobody underestimated the seriousness of the challenge facing the EU and Member State governments. There was a clear need, he said, to boost co-operation. The idea of "war against terrorism" was unacceptable given that meant undermining civil liberties. The West too, he said, had committed atrocities in Chechnya and in Guantanamo Bay. Mr Wurtz called for the respect of civil liberties and rejection of the notion of a war on terrorism. Nigel FARAGE (UK) for the IND/DEM group referred to the longstanding principal used by Jean Monnet of a "beneficial crisis". Each time there was a crisis, he said, the EU would push for further integration as the answer. Mr Farage stated that he understood the argument that information on telephone calls could help to prevent terrorism but stated that there was no clear legal basis for