of the UK and a note on the scope and powers of a European Parliament Committee of Inquiry. Website: A website for the EQUI committee was set up and has been operational since 16 February 2006. Here citizens and Members alike can find all relevant information as well as a number of contact lists, such as the committee secretariat, political group' advisers and other useful information. E-mails were regularly sent to Members with the updates to the website. The Brussels-based press has also been informed of its existence. The purpose of the website was to allow the work of the committee be as transparent as possible for the public, without prejudice to the need to preserve confidentiality when required. The EQUI secretariat kept the website updated to ensure that all relevant documents (oral and written evidence, background documents and agendas) and Working Documents, Draft Reports and other documents were available. Up to 92 pieces of evidence were posted on the website before the closing date of 20 March 2007. Members were also able to contribute to the web by proposing that documents or links be added at their request. The verbatim transcripts of each of the 11 committee public hearings were also posted on the website. The link to website is as follows: ( http://www.europarl.europa.eu/comparl/tempcom/equi/default_en.htm ) 7. Studies: - Study on part 1 of mandate (ES 1) : In order to help with the tasks at hand, EQUI requested the advice of external experts. For this purpose, a comparative study was commissioned under the committee's expertise budget. The experts were asked to examine how the provisions on prudential supervision and conduct of business rules of life assurance undertakings as laid down in the relevant EU Directives were transposed into UK law. The study identifies for each of those provisions the matching UK provisions and indicates when they entered into force, by way of a transposition table. The transposition in the UK was then compared with implementing legislation in Ireland, Germany and Spain. The results of the study are included in the findings of the final report. - Study on part 2 of mandate (ES 2): To advise members on legal and procedural issues related to this part of the mandate, as well as to collect and analyze relevant background material, the Committee of Inquiry commissioned an external study on the UK regulatory arrangements related to both prudential supervision and conduct of business rules of life assurance undertakings, seen in the context of the Equitable Life case. The comparative approach includes financial regulators in Ireland, Germany and Spain and other relevant examples of transposition and regulation in EU Member States. The results of the study are included in the findings of the final report. - Study on part 3 of the mandate (ES 3): the committee received a comparative study on the adequacy of remedies available under UK and EU law for policyholders from the UK and other Member States in the context of the Equitable Life affair. The study provides a complete list of existing judicial and non-judicial remedy schemes available under