the European Charter for Small Enterprises, the Commission shall submit to the Council an assessment report on the implementation of the multiannual programme in the context of the Charter before each Spring summit. The report shall be forwarded to Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee. (Amendment 52) Article 5(2b) (new) 2b. The Commission shall review at its earliest convenience, but no later than the end of 2000, the functioning of existing business support networks with a view to their improved integration and streamlining. Based on this assessment, the indicative amounts contained for networks in the Multiannual Programme may be revised accordingly. (Amendment 53) Annex 1(3), 5th paragraph a (new) Action will be taken, together with organisations representing small enterprises and craft enterprises, to identify the specific needs of small enterprises and develop appropriate tools, such as mutual guarantees, and to adapt existing tools, such as those of the EIB, to their needs. (Amendment 54) Annex 1(5), 1st paragraph a (new) Together with the Member States and representative organisations, the Commission will endeavour to identify the simplification and support measures needed in order to better adapt cooperation and exchange instruments to the needs of enterprises. (Amendment 55) Annex 1(5), 2nd paragraph a (new) The Commission undertakes to support the Normapme initiative, particularly as regards the importance to be given to strengthening policies on quality and standardisation in enterprises and in particular in small and craft enterprises. (Amendment 56) Annex 1(6a)(new) 6a. The Commission will coordinate the action plans drawn up jointly by the Member States and organisations representing small and craft enterprises, in the context of the implementation of the European Charter for Small Enterprises. (Amendment 57) Annex 3 (new) Annex 3 EUROPEAN CHARTER FOR SMALL ENTERPRISES (Text of Charter to be annexed to the Decision) Justification: The programme must take account of the conclusions of the Feira European Council, in particular with regard to the promotion of small enterprises, and it should therefore incorporate the European Charter for Small Enterprises. European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a Council decision on a Multiannual Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship (2001-2005) ( COM(2000) 256 - C5-0274/2000 - 2000/0107(CNS) ) (Consultation procedure) The European Parliament, - having regard to the Commission proposal to the Council ( COM(2000) 256 ), - having been consulted by the Council pursuant to Article 157(3) of the EC Treaty ( C5-0274/2000 ), - having regard to Rule 67 of its Rules of Procedure, - having regard to the report of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the opinion of the Committee on Budgets ( A5-0267/2000 ), 1. Approves the Commission proposal as amended; 2. Calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly, pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty; 3. Calls on the Council to notify Parliament should it intend to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 4. Calls for the conciliation procedure to be initiated should the Council intend to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 5. Asks to be consulted again if the Council intends to amend the