resources intended to safeguard civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference that jeopardise the security of civil aviation. Article 3 Non-discrimination Member States shall ensure that security charges do not discriminate between airport users or air passengers. Article 4 Airport network Member States may allow the competent body of an airport network to introduce a common and transparent charging system for security charges to cover the airport network. Article 5 Common charging systems After having informed the Commission and in accordance with Union law, Member States may allow the competent body to apply a common and transparent charging system at airports serving the same city or conurbation, provided that each airport fully complies with the requirements on transparency set out in Article 7. Article 6 Consultation and remedy 1. Member States shall ensure that the competent body has access to all necessary information on the costs of providing aviation security services at the airport. 2. Member States shall ensure that ▌a compulsory ▌procedure for regular consultation between the competent body and airport users or the representatives or associations of airport users is established with respect to the operation of the system of security charges and the level of such charges. Such consultation shall take place at least once a year , unless agreed otherwise in the latest consultation. Where a multi-annual agreement between the competent body and the airport users exists, the consultations shall take place as provided for in such an agreement. Member States shall retain the right to request more frequent consultations . 3. The competent body shall submit any proposal to modify the system or the level of security charges to the airport users or the representatives or associations of airport users no later than four months before it enters into force, together with the reasons for the proposed changes. The competent body shall hold consultations on the proposed changes with the airport users and take their views into account before a decision is taken. 4. The competent body shall publish its decision no later than two months before it enters into force. When no agreement on the proposed changes is reached between the competent body and the airport users, the competent body shall justify its decision with regard to the airport users. 5. Member States shall ensure that in the event of a disagreement over a decision on security charges taken by the competent body, either party may seek the intervention of the independent supervisory authority referred to in Article 10 which shall examine the justifications for the modification of the system or the level of security charges. 6. A Member State may decide not to apply paragraph 5 in relation to changes to the level or the structure of the aviation security charges at those airports for which: (a) there is a mandatory procedure under national law whereby aviation security charges, or their maximum level, are to be determined or approved by the independent supervisory authority; or (b) there is a mandatory procedure under national law whereby the independent supervisory authority examines, on a regular basis or