the European project, as it had been at the time of the Coal and Steel Community or the Euratom treaty. Moreover, “climate change is one of the most important challenges of the 21st century – perhaps the most important.” On constitutional matters, he said no-one was really proposing a centralised European superstate, but “the European dimension is an indispensable one to meet the challenges of the 21st century.” Even the largest European countries alone could not meet these challenges. One area where less should be done was bureaucracy, he said. Better regulation was needed to improve conditions for businesses and citizens. “Working in the spirit of partnership,” he concluded, “we can achieve real results during these six months, and should look forward to the next 50 years with hope and pride.” -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-005-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-007-EN DOC XML V0//EN Institutions Rome II: MEPs reintroduce rules on defamation 2007-01-22 - 12:29 The Parliament approved its recommendation for second reading for the Regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, known as Rome II. MEPs approved a number of amendments that reintroduce the provisions related to violations of privacy, including defamation, previously deleted in the Council's Common Position. The so-called "Rome II" Regulation aims to facilitate litigations between citizens from different European countries on matters such as traffic accidents, accidents caused by defective products and violation of the environment. As a general rule, the law applicable to a non-contractual obligation arising out of a tort is the law of the country in which the damage occurs, irrespective of the country in which the event giving rise to the damage took place. Road traffic accidents represent the majority of cross-border disputes involving EU citizens. By approving the report by Diana WALLIS (ALDE, UK), MEPs decided that in case of personal injury, for instance caused by a car accident, the court should apply the law of the victim's country when evaluating the scale of the damage. Moreover, the approved amendments say that the court should also apply the principle of 'restitutio in integrum' and therefore include the actual cost of medical after-care in its evaluation. This provision takes into account the fact that citizens are not aware of other countries' legislation. According to Mrs Wallis, in fact, this rule aims "to put the people back in the position they were before the accident." At first reading, MEPs had approved a compromise amendment that regulated the violation of privacy by a printed or audiovisual media. The Council decided to delete this provision from its Common Position. In the vote in plenary, MEPs decided to reintroduce the same rules, as adopted at the first reading. According to the approved text, the law applicable, in case of defamation by media, should be the one of the country to which the publication or broadcasting service is principally directed or, if this is not apparent, the country in which editorial control is exercised. Finally,