Joint answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-7583/10 , E-7716/10 (30 November 2010) The Commission has closely followed recent events in Maputo and is well aware that the real casualty figures might be higher than the official figures announced by the Government, but there is no other reliable source to calculate the exact figures. Since official data is based on obituary and hospital records and not all the casualties have been officially registered, it is possible that these figures are underestimated. Regarding the amount of damages, the Commission has no reason to question the credibility of these calculations. The EU Delegation in Mozambique was in contact with Government officials and was received by President Guebuza on 6 September 2010. During this meeting, the President expressed his serious concern about the protests while considering that the government's policy to fight urban poverty was the right approach. He expressed his hope for the Commission's continuous support in this endeavour. The Government of Mozambique recognises that current measures are short term and as such do not address the underlying problems that led to the violent clashes. Only a comprehensive longer-term policy that tackles the root causes of poverty will lead to a sustainable improvement and thereby a reduction of potential conflicts. The government is in the process of designing a medium-term strategy to implement its poverty reduction strategy (PARPA). This constitutes a welcome opportunity to refocus on a number of critical elements like the creation of employment as a means to increase incomes, improved domestic productivity and reduction of import dependency or increased national production of basic food items and services. In the framework of its programmed cooperation, the EU supports food security in Mozambique through support to the poverty reduction strategy and an agriculture sector programme. In addition, Mozambique qualified for assistance under the Food Facility, receiving an allocation of EUR 22 million to respond to problems caused by soaring food prices in developing countries. There is actually no need to increase food aid but to address the structural imbalances of Mozambican food production. The Commission is aware of the statements by United Nations Special Rapporteur De Schutter and maintains regular contact with him. The recent occurrence of disturbances in different countries in the region has naturally prompted concerns that protests could spread to other developing countries reliant on food imports. The Commission in its communication on Food Security COM(2010)127 final. has emphasised the need to improve access to food. It is of the opinion that the ‘right to food’ approach should support strategies that tackle root causes of hunger and empower marginalised groups. Measures to create employment and improve domestic productivity, as outlined above, are key.