shall be forwarded only with its consent. 2.2 In the event of any doubt as to the confidential nature of an item of information, or where it is necessary to lay down the appropriate arrangements for it to be forwarded in accordance with one of the options set out in point 3.2., the chairperson of the parliamentary committee concerned, accompanied, where necessary, by the rapporteur, shall consult the Member of Commission with responsibility for that area without delay. In the event of a disagreement, the matter shall be referred to the Presidents of the two Institutions so that they may resolve the dispute. 2.3 If, at the end of the procedure referred to in point 2.2., no agreement has been reached, the President of Parliament, in response to a reasoned request from the parliamentary committee concerned, shall call on the Commission to forward, within the appropriate deadline duly indicated, the confidential information in question, selecting the arrangements from among the options laid down in section 3 of this Annex. Before the expiry of that deadline, the Commission shall inform Parliament in writing of its final position, in respect of which Parliament reserves the right, if appropriate, to exercise its right to seek redress. 3. Arrangements for access to and the handling of confidential information 3.1 Confidential information forwarded in accordance with the procedures set out in point 2.2. and, where appropriate, point 2.3. shall be forwarded, on the responsibility of the President or of a Member of the Commission, to the parliamentary body which submitted the request. 3.2. Without prejudice to the provisions of point 2.3., access and the arrangements designed to preserve the confidentiality of the information shall be laid down by common accord between the Member of the Commission with responsibility for the area involved and the parliamentary body concerned, duly represented by its chairperson, who shall select one of the following options: - information intended for the chairperson of and the rapporteur for the relevant parliamentary committee; - restricted access to information for all members of the relevant parliamentary committee in accordance with the appropriate arrangements, possibly with the documents being collected after they have been studied and a ban on the making of copies; - discussion in the relevant parliamentary committee, meeting in camera, in accordance with arrangements which may vary by virtue of the degree of confidentiality involved and in accordance with the principles set out in Annex VII to Parliament's Rules of Procedure; - communication of documents from which all personal details have been expunged; - in instances justified on absolutely exceptional grounds, information intended for the President of Parliament alone. The information in question may not be published or forwarded to any other addressee. 3.3 In the event of non-compliance with these arrangements, the provisions relating to sanctions set out in Annex VII to Parliament's Rules of Procedure shall apply. 3.4 With a view to the implementation of the provisions set out above, Parliament shall ensure that the following arrangements are actually put in place: - a secure archive system for documents classified as confidential;