Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (18 January 2012) Firstly, the Commission acknowledges the pertinence of the issue raised by the Honourable Member, that is, the protection of consumers in the European Union (EU). The Commission intends to adopt a communication in 2012 as a follow-up to the 2011 Green Paper consultation Green Paper on online gambling in the internal market (COM(2011) 12 final). . One of the key issues will precisely be how to ensure an appropriate protection of consumers and to fight against illegal offers effectively. Member States and the responsible national authorities are primarily competent to map out and enforce their legislation governing the provision of gambling services, in conformity with the fundamental freedoms of the Treaty and applicable EU secondary legislation. However, and although not privy to details of the constituent's alleged complaint, the Commission understands that the Maltese gambling regulator suspended the licence of the operator in question in 2009, that the case is now before the national courts, and that a public notice was placed for players to submit relevant data http://www.lga.org.mt/lga/content.aspx?id=224002 . It is suggested that the constituent verify with the regulator the site used, because operators can hold more than one license and these may be from different jurisdictions, including out of the EU, such as the operator in question. The Commission would like to recall that there are a number of active gambling sites promoting their services in Europe without holding any licence An estimated 85 % of more than the 14 000 active gambling sites in Europe. ‘Cyber-criminality in online gaming’ is not a study carried out for the Commission but a publicly available research paper conducted by CERT-LEXSI (Laboratoire d'Expertise en Sécurité Informatique), found at: http://www.lexsi.com/ressources/contentimages/subcnt1291.pdf . The issue could also be related to the directive on Unfair Commercial Practices Directive 2005/29/EC, OJ L 149, 11.6.2005. which requires that traders operate with professional diligence and do not distort the economic behaviour of consumers inducing them to enter into transactions they would not have entered otherwise. The Commission is in the process of reviewing its overall application and intends to issue in spring 2012 a Report which will draw a list of the most unfair commercial practices encountered.