US dollar compared to the average exchange rate recorded in the previous three years and 11% against main industrialised countries and accession countries. The appreciation led to a loss in market share and thus export developments put a significant drag on growth. Oil prices have been subject to high volatility reaching a high of USD 31 in mid-October. The accession countries kept a resilient average growth rate at 3,1%, an average budget deficit of 5% of GDP but unfortunately also a high unemployment rate of 15% in 2003. In spite of EMU, there is a growing lack of convergence amongst European economies, with an increasing disparity of their economic performances, as for example in the inflation rates, growth, debt ratios and deficits, instead of moving towards a more homogeneous and coherent economy. Investments continued its tendency of contraction and strangled growth. In particular, contraction of investments in the future, such as research and development, knowledge and physical infrastructures, undermine Europe's productivity, competitivity and growth, and are all in drastic contradiction with the aims and targets set at the Lisbon European Council . Improving economic governance The rapporteur stresses her regret about the non-implementation of the Lisbon strategy by Member States which has additionally aggravated the economic crisis and the growing gap between the aims and objectives set at the Lisbon European Council and the existing Broad Economic Policy Guidelines and the concrete implementation at national and local level . This lack of implementation provides no clear signals to citizens and market participants, and results in poor economic governance. However, the Lisbon strategy remains the Union’s most comprehensive strategy to undertake economic reforms, support growth, the promotion of full employment, social inclusion and to give answers to environmental challenges and the viability of the European social model. The rapporteur appeals to Member States to increase coherence and consistency between the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategy, the Growth Initiative and the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines 2003 - 2005, the European Employment Guidelines 2003 - 2005, the European Growth Inititative, the 6th framework programme on research and the Stability and Growth Pact and calls for a full and speedy implementation of these measures at national and local level. Furthermore, democratic legitimacy of the European economic governance approach and the participation of civil society needs to be improved to raise political ownership of the strategy and responsibility for the measures to be undertaken. The Spring Council should not only include the European Parliament but all national Parliaments in the process of the Lisbon strategy, and debates should be held in all national Parliaments before the Spring Council. Social Partners and civil society should be mobilised and involved at all levels of implementation of the Lisbon strategy. Investment The rapporteur stresses the fact that both public and private investment across the European Union have fallen sharply from 3,8% of GDP in the 1970s to just 2,4% of BIP in 2002 compared to 3,5% (2002) in the USA. Alone in the course of 2002, overall investment contracted by 2,9% in the EU with the declining tendency persisting in 2003,