Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (9 October 2007) The Commission is aware of the environmental problems created by the mismanagement of the solid waste generated in the area surrounding the Mediterranean Sea. The inefficiency of waste collection schemes, inadequacy of treatment given to waste, but also the abundance of uncontrolled landfills are the immediate causes of this situation. The Commission has started a number of infringements against Member States especially on this last issue. The Commission considers that the proper implementation of relevant EU legislation in the field of waste management would undoubtedly contribute to lowering the amount of solid waste — including plastic — that reaches the Mediterranean Sea. The Commission would like to stress the fact that awareness raising activities and information campaigns are common means that Member States use to help the implementation of these directives COM(2006)406 final (report from the Commission to the Council and the Parliament on implementation of the Community waste legislation). . In addition, the forthcoming Marine Strategy Directive, at second reading stage already, will require each Mediterranean Member State, in close cooperation with the relevant other Member States and third countries within the Region, to draw up a programme of measures tackling the main environmental pressures affecting its marine waters. These measures will be defined only after a detailed assessment of the state of the environment is done, the characteristics of ‘good environmental status’ at regional level are defined and the establishment of environmental targets and monitoring programmes is completed. The integrated approach adopted by this directive is to ensure the consistency between the different measures concerned. As part of the measures taken to reduce marine pollution in the Mediterranean Sea, the Commission continuously works for the full implementation of Directive 2000/59/EC Directive 2000/59/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 27 November 2000 on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues, OJ L 33, 2 28.12.2000. by improving the availability and use of the facilities designed to receive and treat ship-generated waste, including plastic waste, in European ports. Infringement procedures have been launched against Member States when ports do not have adequate facilities for ships' waste reception and handling plans. Further, the Commission has financed studies to develop adequate facilities in the Mediterranean countries. In the framework of the Safemed Programme activities have been included to implement effectively the Barcelona commitments and to encourage the Mediterranean Partners to align their port reception facilities and their use to the standards of EC Directive 2000/59/EC. As regards financial support to Member States to implement solid waste management actions, the Commission would like to remind the Honourable Member that the current framework of Structural and Cohesion Funds already allows them to take measures in this field. It is therefore within the responsibility of each Member State to decide upon the introduction in its national plans of actions aimed at enhancing the management of solid waste. Hence the funds used for this purpose vary according to Member States' priorities. Likewise, the new Financial Instrument for the Environment, LIFE+ Regulation