evaluation : Evaluation that is conducted either on or after the completion of an intervention. It strives to understand the factors of success or failure, as well as the sustainability of results and impacts. 13. In the rapporteur's view, a mix of the three should be taken into account for political evaluation. Although the structure of the next financial framework will change considerably, in particular for the main internal and external policies (Heading 1a-3a and b, 4), the result of an evaluation of a programme run before 2007 (ex post) is useful to evaluate the adequacy and appropriateness of a programme starting in 2007 (ex ante). The link between the two should be emphasised. Which areas? 14. At the coordinators meeting of 15 March 2006, the principle of cost benefit studies was agreed for a number of policy areas. These studies will be carried out either internally or externally using part of the budgetary expertise earmarked for the Committee on Budgets. An ex post analysis of the results of these activities will be useful to ensure the success of the new programmes. · CIP and Impact of different budget instruments on the development of SMEs (Heading 1a) Continuation of the previous MAP Programme which was a specific instrument to support SMEs in particular (Multi-annual Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship, in 2001-2005). The new Framework Programme for Competitiveness and Innovation (CIP) will be a significant step forward in simplification and rationalisation of Community instruments especially in the areas of improving the business environment of SMEs, innovation on business level and policy analysis, development and coordination of SMEs. · LIFE (Heading 2) New programme for the environment, becoming a single financial instrument targeting only the environment (to support the priorities of the 6th Environmental Action Programme in combating climate changes, halting the decline in bio-diversity, minimising negative environmental effect on human health etc.). · Citizenship (Heading 3b) Including a wide area of subjects as health and consumer protection, culture, youth (education programmes, their evaluations), vocational training, culture and language, dialogue with the citizens (e.g. financial support granted to associations) · Communication policy of the European Union (Heading 3b): Scope, targets, financial means and results. · Information Policy (Heading 3b) Evaluation of the financial means and mechanisms for delivering the objectives of the policy with particular focus on tools, tasks and staff of the European Houses, distribution of information. · Assessment of budgetary resources and means to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (Heading 4) · Real cost of CFSP (Heading 4) Evaluation of the network of EU centres abroad, EU monitors, EC support to MERCOSUR, thematic evaluation of population and development oriented programmes in EC external cooperation, different EC country's strategies · OLAF After more than five years in operation and at the beginning of a the mandate of the newly appointed Director, the Committee on Budgets should evaluate the cost effectiveness of this body in the protection of European financial interests. 15. The rationale of such evaluations is based on the assumption that although information on results of EU policies is available in many