Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (25 October 2006) Angola is indeed a country of large revenues resulting from exploitation of abundant natural resources, namely oil and — to a much lesser extent — diamonds, coinciding with dramatic poverty levels and social indicators. Widespread poverty is mostly a legacy of three decades of civil war, but the war came to end more than three years ago and an improvement of the social situation should now be visible. In fact some progress has been made, evidenced by a reduction in the numbers of children out of primary schooling, the construction of health and education infrastructures and Angola’s rise in the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) human development index: from 166th in 2004 to 160th in 2005. But there is no doubt that the Angolan Government needs to give much more attention to the social sectors. While budget allocations to the social sectors have declined steadily in the period 2004‑06 in percentage terms to 4.4 % for the health sector and 3.8 % to education in 2006, there has been an increase in absolute terms as public expenditure grew significantly in this period. In addition, budget execution levels have been consistently low. But there is also a bias against primary health and education visible in the government’s political agenda. Progress is also hampered by lack of planning and management instruments, weak institional capacity and lack of qualified human resources at all levels. Delivering social care is hence not only a matter of financial resources. It is also a matter of institutional and human resources capacities which Angola does not have in order to impact in the short term on improved social indicators. The Commission through its bilateral cooperation and in its contacts with the Angolan Government strongly encourages the latter to enhance its efforts to make progress towards achieving the Millenium Development Goals. The Commissioner responsible for Development and Humanitarian Aid did so when meeting the Angolan Minister of Planning (and National Autorising Officer) in Gaborone in February 2006. The need to address poverty reduction also by means of medium term planning instruments has been a subject of a session of the political dialogue with the Angolan Government and will continue to be on the agenda of the dialogue. Furthermore the preparation of the 10th European Development Fund (EDF) cooperation strategy provides an occasion to address this important issue. As the Honourable Member is aware, governance (including social governance) is a crucial element in this exercise, namely in the context of the ‘incentive tranche’. Government and Commission must agree on commitments to governance reform, which will help to determine the eventual additional amount allocated to the country. The Commission will emphasise that commitments in the area of social governance must be part of the governance programme. The Commissioner responsible for Development and Humanitarian Aid plans to visit Angola later in 2006 and this message will be passed to the Angolan authorities. In the discussions on the 10th EDF country strategy paper priority is given to these sectors, namely the enhancement