the extension of the four level approach are also required because the EU institutions do not yet benefit from an extensive practical experience of the four level Lamfalussy approach. Furthermore, the first and second Interim Reports of the Inter-Institutional Monitoring Group monitoring the Lamfalussy process have pointed out certain remarks and criticisms concerning the functioning of the process. Justification The Lamfalussy procedure is still in its infancy. It would be inappropriate to vastly extend its remit without sufficient guarantees regarding the workings of the process. The proposed compromise amendment amends the text to relate to: the additional commitments which will be provided by President Prodi to mirror the committments given to the securities sector, and to the committments to be made by the Council regarding the non-use of the "aerosol clause" and respect of the rights of all EU institutions such as drawn up in the draft Constitution for Europe. Amendment 6 RECITAL 7 B (new) (7b) The speed of adoption of legislation and the quality of legislation are fundamental objectives of the Lamfalussy process. The success of the Lamfalussy process depends more on the political will of the institutional partners to set up an appropriate framework for the adoption of the legislation than on an acceleration of the setting up of the related technical delegated provisions. In addition, an overemphasis on the speed of setting up of the delegated provisions can create significant problems with regard to the quality of those provisions. Justification Speed is not the sole factor by which the Lamfalussy process should be judged. In the setting up of a Single Market for Financial Services, due account should be taken of the good quality of legislation, rather than adopting a tick-box approach to legislation whereby measures are adopted in haste and subsequently prove to be inappropriate. Amendment 7 RECITAL 7 C (new) (7c) The extension of the Lamfalussy procedure is without prejudice to possible decisions regarding the organisation of supervision at a European level. Justification The extension of the Lamfalussy process should not affect a possible future debate on the setting up of a system for single Europe-wide supervision. Amendment 8 RECITAL 10 A (new) (10a) The implementing measures adopted should not modify the essential provisions of Directives. Justification See justification to amendment to Article -9 (new). The proposed compromise amendment splits Amendment 8 of the Draft Report into 2 amendments in the interest of clarity. Amendment 9 RECITAL 10 B (new) (10b) The European Parliament should be given a period of three months from the first transmission of draft implementing measures to allow it to examine them and to give its opinion. However, in urgent and duly justified cases this period may be shortened. If, within that period, a resolution is passed by the European Parliament, the Commission will re-examine the draft measures. Justification See justification to amendment to Article -9 (new). The proposed compromise amendment splits Amendment 8 of the Draft Report into 2 amendments in the interest of clarity. Amendment 10 RECITAL 10 C (new) (10c) In exercising its implementing powers, the Commission should respect