of social organisations. Greater involvement 8. Notes that, although the EUR-Lex portal has become more user-friendly and contains more documents, there is still not a single uniform on-line contact point for all institutions where members of the public can monitor the formulation of policy proposals throughout the whole decision-making process; calls on all the institutions, therefore, to combine the various internet sites to create a single portal; 9. Welcomes the Commission's proposals for minimum standards for the consultation of third parties by the Commission; considers that, in a parliamentary democracy, it is important that such consultation should take place in a transparent and efficient manner in order not to slow down the legislative process and in order to guarantee openness; 10. Considers, similarly, that the Commission, throughout the whole process of taking advice before a piece of draft legislation is put forward, should enjoy adequate political and professional freedom. 11. Considers it essential that the implementation of the Commission’s framework for consultation be dealt with in the annual report on ‘better regulation’. 12. Considers, however, that an Interinstitutional Agreement laying down uniform minimum rules for consultation for all institutions would be even more effective; urges that ways of concluding such an agreement be investigated as soon as possible; 13. Warns, however, that such consultation must not become a substitute for parliamentary democracy which is based on the role of the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers as co-legislator and proper control by national and regional parliaments when the European legislator cannot or is not permitted to perform that role; 14 . Considers that the Commission, in the collection and use of expert opinions, must ensure compliance with the duty of responsibility, pluralism and the integrity of experts . 15. Stresses that the European Union already has dialogues with the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. The first of these bodies is made up of the legitimate representatives of civil society, the two sides of industry, the second of representatives of regional and local authorities; stresses also that there is a need for greater institutionalisation of the social dialogue and consultation of the two sides of industry; takes the view, therefore, that the consultation process should always make use of the expertise of these bodies; 16. Welcomes the cooperation protocols which the Commission has concluded with the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee; urges that these protocols be put to use correctly and as often as possible; calls moreover for more frequent use of Articles 262 and 265 of the EC Treaty, which provide for consultation of these committees; 17. Takes the view, however, that this consultation must not affect the right of the representatives of civil society and the regional and local authorities to approach the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the European Commission directly; Use of experts 18. Considers that the minimum standards which the Commission proposes and the three basic principles applied in this connection - openness, effectiveness and quality - are a good step towards greater harmonisation and