16 December 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Charles Pasqua, Cristiana Muscardini and Luis Queiró on behalf of the UEN Group on the Heads of State and Government Summit on the IGC European Parliament resolution on the Heads of State and Government Summit on the IGC The European Parliament , - having regard to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure, A. whereas at the Brussels Summit the Heads of State and Government of the 25 Member States failed to reach an agreement within the IGC on a new European Treaty, 1. Thanks the Italian Presidency for its efforts during its six-month term of office; 2. Notes that the failure to reach an agreement demonstrates that the EU is composed of sovereign states and that it is for them to decide whether or not to take any further steps towards European integration; 3. Considers that the timetable laid down in Declaration 23 appended to the Treaty of Nice could have been adhered to; 4. Welcomes the maturity, the sense of responsibility and the wise decision-making displayed, in the face of persistent difficulties, by Europe's political leaders in opting to adjourn the IGC rather than make a dash for a second-rate agreement; 5. Believes that a rushed agreement would have been counterproductive and would have subjected the enlargement process to unnecessary tensions; 6. Believes that a period of reflection is needed to allow the Member States to concentrate on finding an agreement on the main political issues which the IGC has left open; 7. Considers that there is no irreversible crisis and that the Treaty of Nice could contain the requisite answers to the challenge immediately facing the EU; 8. Recognises the importance of continuing to work for a positive outcome regarding the conclusions of the draft Treaty; 9. Places its trust in the ability of all the Member States - through serious reflection, mutual respect, democratic consultation, a gradualist approach and political realism - to reach a fresh agreement (a proper, firm and unanimous one) on the future of Europe and the reform of its institutions; 10. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the governments of the 25 Member States.