1. Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1655/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 197, 29.7.1999, p. 1). Justification Based on amendment 7 of the first reading. This is in line with Recital 3 according to which the construction and maintenance of energy infrastructure should be subject to market principles. Amendment 2 Recital 6 a (new) (6 a) Projects shall only benefit from an increase of TEN support, from 10% to 20% of total project cost, where it is clearly in the interests of the European economy and general public interest, where funding from commercial sources has been proven to be unfeasible, and where this does not result in a significant distortion of competition between undertakings. Justification This amendment makes the necessary link between the present common position and the Commission proposal amending Council Regulation (EC) N° 2236/95 laying down general rules for the granting of Community financial aid in the field of trans-european networks ( COM(2002)134 ) which provides for an increase in Community subsidy for priority projects from 10% to 20%. Amendment 3 Recital 8 (8) Since the project specifications are liable to change, they are given indicatively. The Commission should therefore continue to be empowered to update them. (8) Since the project specifications determine the use of significant public funds, it is important to find the appropriate balance between legislative oversight governing all substantial changes to these specifications and the flexibility required in implementing projects that merit potential community support. Justification Self-explanatory. Amendment 4 Article 6, paragraph 5 5. The indicative project specifications, comprising the detailed description of the projects and , where appropriate, their geographical description, are set out in Annex III. These specifications shall be updated in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 5. The indicative project specifications, including , where appropriate their geographical description, are set out in Annex III. These specifications shall be updated in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). Updates must be limited only to technical changes of projects contained in annex III, modifying for example a particular part of the specified route, but shall not include substantial changes such as entirely new projects nor new country destinations not listed in Annex III. Justification See amendment 11 of the first reading. Unlike the existing Decision 1254/96 on Transeuropean energy networks the Commission proposal and the common position introduce the possibility of "updating" Annex III in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10 (2) (comitology procedure). According to the Commission this flexibility is needed in order to react to new developments. This has to be considered carefully by the EP. There must be a balance between the need to react quickly to new developments concerning the projects and the need for an efficient control by the co-legislator (the EP) especially as the priority axes and projects set out in Annex I and Annex II are very largely defined. It is therefore proposed to limit the revision of Annex III by comitology procedure to those modifications which are of a purely technical