Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (1 August 2011) The Commission is aware of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's (US FDA) new requirements for sunscreens marketed in the United States, published in June 2011. In the EU, sunscreens are regulated by the Cosmetics Directive Council Directive 76/768/EEC of 27 July 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to cosmetic products, OJ L 262, 27.9.1976 (‘Cosmetics Directive’). which addresses the issue of claims by requesting Member States to ensure that, ‘in the labelling, putting up for sale and advertising of cosmetic products, text, names, trade marks, pictures and figurative or other signs are not used to imply that these products have characteristics which they do not have’ Articles 6(3) of Directive 76/768/EEC. . In addition, it establishes that the person responsible for placing a product on the EU market must, for control purposes, keep information on the proof of the effect claimed for the cosmetic product, readily accessible to the competent authorities of the Member State concerned. All UV filters used in cosmetic products placed on the EU market have to be assessed by the Scientific Committee for Consumer Safety and authorised by the Commission for use in sunscreen products. The authorised UV filters may be added to cosmetic products only within the limits and under the conditions laid down in the Cosmetics Directive. In parallel, in order to address some specific concerns related to sunscreen products, the Commission adopted in 2006 the recommendation on the efficacy of sunscreen products and the claims made relating thereto Commission Recommendation of 22 September 2006 on the efficacy of sunscreen products and the claims made relating thereto, OJ L 265, 26.9.2006. . The objectives of this recommendation were to establish: claims which should not be made in relation to sunscreen products; precautions to be observed including application instructions; the minimum efficacy standard for sunscreen products in order to ensure a high level of protection against UVA and UVB radiation, and simple, understandable labelling to assist in choosing the appropriate product. From a legal standpoint, a recommendation is not binding. However, the recommendation has been prepared in close cooperation with consumer associations and industry, and it has been implemented progressively by the industry, on a voluntary basis, since its publication in September 2006. Since therefore, at the EU level there are already strict criteria for labelling and efficacy of sunscreens, the Commission does not consider necessary to change the current requirements.