market in consumer credit. An example would be the rules on the annual percentage rate of charge laid down in the directive. MEPs wish to exclude various types of loans from the directive. These include credit agreements of less than €500 or more than €100,000 in net loan, further credit agreements secured either by a mortgage on immovable property, hiring and leasing agreements, private credit agreements, credit which an employer gives his employees as a subsidiary service and credit in the form of an advance on a current account or a debit account if the total amount must be paid back within three months or on demand. Another key point for MEPs is the need for standardised information about credit offers and credit agreements, to enable consumers to make comparisons more easily Europe-wide and choose the best product. Parliament says this information should always include the annual percentage rate of charge, the agreed duration of the credit, the number and amount of monthly payments and the total cost of the credit. Additional information, in particular with relation to costs, the modalities for repayment, any deposit required or the amount of the rates may be provided separately. MEPs were also keen to ensure that both creditor and consumer provide information prior to the signing of an agreement, so that the creditor can assess the consumer's creditworthiness on the basis of the information provided. Concerning overdrafts, the consumer has to be informed at the time or before the agreement is signed about the credit limit, annual percentage rate of change, of any change of this rate and all the conditions and procedure for terminating the agreement. Regarding cross-border credit , the Parliament says each Member State must grant access to databases to creditors from other Member States under the same conditions as for firms and individuals in its own country. MEPs added that the consumer and the guarantor have to be informed of the results of any such consultation immediately and without charge. The consumer should be allowed to pay back loans at any time before the period fixed in the agreement. As regards joint and several liability , MEPs demanded that, if the consumer has withdrawn his acceptance of an agreement for the supply of goods or services, he shall no longer be bound by his acceptance of any consumer credit agreement linked thereto. The consumer may also refuse to repay the credit if the goods were not delivered or the services not provided. In the case of consumer credits linked with another contract, the Member States remain free to maintain more far-reaching provisions, such as for example the principle of joint and several liability existing in the United Kingdom, to protect consumers. Press enquiries: Miriam Orieskova (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74864 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 31054 & Tanja Rudolf (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74897 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 31053 e-mail : lega-press@europarl.eu.int Harmonised Customs Controls Measures throughout the Union Janelly FOURTOU (EPP-ED, F) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code (