Answer given by Mr Šefčovič on behalf of the Commission (13 January 2010) Latvia needs to put its public finances back on a sound footing in order to restore international confidence and eventually be able to finance itself without international assistance. The measures to implement fiscal adjustment efforts due to economic crisis and the priorities for public expenditure are at the discretion of the Latvian government. The commitments being undertaken by the government in the context of the 2010 budget require a number of difficult adjustments — not only in the fields of higher education and research. The Commission would also like to stress that as regards the responsibility for higher education policy, planning and funding lies fully with the Member States. However, the Commission is convinced that investments in education and research are crucial to secure long term growth and productivity. Given the challenges of the globalised knowledge economy, ensuring appropriate resources for education and training, and supporting young people who are especially hard hit by unemployment, is crucial for Europe's sustainable economic recovery. In response to the economic crisis, the Commission's European Economic Recovery Plan of November 2008 concluded that Member States and the private sector should increase planned investments in education and research to stimulate growth and productivity. The Plan also asks Member States to maintain investments to increase the quality of education. The Recovery Plan is supported by the European Social Fund, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the European Investment Bank. The Commission is currently supporting several initiatives which can inform Member States about higher education funding choices, including peer learning between Member States and research studies on higher education funding reform and on specific aspects of funding policy such as the private and social rates of return to investment in higher education. The Commission is also of the view that the absorption and governance of structural funds should be strengthened. A significant share of these funds is foreseen for projects supporting education and training, research and development and innovation.