STATEMENT I. Background The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. According to the provisions of point 28 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management OJ C 139, 14.6.2006, p. 1. and of the Article 12 of Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 OJ L 406, 30.12.2006, p. 1. , the Fund may not exceed a maximum amount of EUR 500 million, drawn from any the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and / or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to Heading 1b. The appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and / or cancelled commitments have been identified. As concerns the procedure, in order to activate the Fund the Commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the Fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. In parallel, a trilogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the Fund and the amounts required. The trilogue can take a simplified form. II. State of play: Commission's proposal On 29 October 2010 the Commission has adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of Poland in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. This is the twenty-eight application to be examined under the budget 2010 and refers to the mobilisation of a global amount of EUR 633.077 from the EGF for Poland. It concerns 1104 redundancies (of which 590 targeted for assistance) in two enterprises operating NACE Revision 2 Division 29, namely "Manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers" during the nine-month reference period from 1 March to 30 November 2009. The application, case EGF/2010/004 PL/Wielkopolskie Automotive, was submitted to the Commission on 5 February 2010 and supplemented by additional information up to 6 July 2010. It was based on the intervention criterion of Art. 2 (b) of the EGF Regulation which requires at least 500 redundancies over a nine-month period in enterprises operating in the same NACE Revision 2 Division in one region or two contiguous regions at NUTS II level in a Member State and was submitted within the deadline of 10 weeks (Art. 5 of the Regulation). Commission's assessment was based on the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis, the unforeseen nature of the concerned redundancies, demonstration of number of redundancies and compliance with the criteria of Article 2 (a), explanation of the unforeseen nature of those redundancies, identification of dismissing enterprises and workers targeted for assistance, the territory concerned and its authorities and stakeholders, the impact for the redundancies as regards the local, regional or national employment,