7 (7) Besides international Conventions and Treaties some Member States have concluded bilateral agreements on the provision of technical assistance. ( 7) Besides international Conventions and Treaties some Member States have concluded bilateral agreements on the provision of technical assistance. The coordination of actions under such agreements with Community actions is desirable . Amendment 7 Recital 9 (9) It is understood that, when giving assistance to the nuclear installation concerned, it is with the aim that maximum impact could be obtained by the assistance, without, however, deviating from the principle that the responsibility for the safety of the installation should rest with the operator and the State having the jurisdiction over the installation. (9) It is understood that, when giving assistance to the nuclear installation concerned, it is with the aim that maximum impact might be obtained by the assistance, without, however, deviating from the 'polluter pays' principle , and that liability for the safety of the installation , its decommissioning and the waste it has generated should rest with the operator and the State having jurisdiction over the installation. Furthermore, priority should be given to assisting nuclear installations and activities which are likely to have significant effects on the Member States. Amendment 8 Recital 13 (13) This Regulation, providing for financial assistance in support of the objectives of the Treaty, is without prejudice to the respective competences of the Community and Member States in the fields concerned, in particular in nuclear safeguards. (13) This Regulation, providing for financial assistance in support of the objectives of the Treaty, is without prejudice to the exclusive powers of the Member States to make their own energy choices and the respective competences of the Community and Member States in the fields concerned, in particular in nuclear safeguards. Amendment 9 Recital 13 a (new) (13a) A financial reference amount, within the meaning of point 38 of the Interinstitutional Agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of 17 May 2006 1 , should be included in this regulation with respect to the entire duration of the instrument, without thereby affecting the powers of the budgetary authority as defined by the Treaty. __________________ 1 OJ C 139, 14.6.2006, p. 1. Amendment 10 Article 1 The Community shall finance measures to support the promotion of a high level of nuclear safety , radiation protection and the application of efficient and effective safeguards of nuclear material in third countries in line with the provisions of this Regulation. The Community might finance measures to support efficient implementation in cases which result in a nuclear safety level corresponding to the technological, regulatory and operational state of the art in the Union, taking into consideration the latest scientific and technological developments , radiation protection and the application of efficient and effective safeguards of nuclear material in third countries in line with the provisions of this Regulation, without prejudice to the 'polluter pays' principle . Amendment 11 Article 2, paragraph 1, point (a), introductory part a) the promotion of an effective nuclear safety culture