2847/93 relating to sanctions (Article 31) remain thus applicable to violations of the rules of the Common Fisheries Policy other than those addressed by this Regulation. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Article 1, paragraph 2 2. To this end, each Member State shall take appropriate measures, in accordance with Community law, to ensure the effectiveness of the system. It shall place sufficient means at the disposal of its competent authorities to enable them to perform their tasks as laid down in this Regulation. 2. To this end, each Member State shall take appropriate measures, in accordance with Community law and both multilateral and bilateral international obligations , to ensure the effectiveness of the system. It shall place sufficient means at the disposal of its competent authorities to enable them to perform their tasks as laid down in this Regulation. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 - point -a (new) -a) IUU fishing means illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing, where: 1. Illegal fishing refers to activities: - conducted by national or foreign vessels in waters under the jurisdiction of a State, without the permission of that State, or in contravention of its laws and regulations; - conducted by vessels flying the flag of States that are parties to a relevant regional fisheries management organisation (RFMO) but operate in contravention of the conservation and management measures adopted by that organisation and by which the States are bound, or relevant provisions of the applicable international law; or - in violation of national laws or international obligations, including those undertaken by cooperating States to a relevant RFMO . 2. Unreported fishing refers to fishing activities: – which have not been reported, or have been misreported, to the relevant national authority, in contravention of national laws and regulations; or – undertaken in the area of competence of a relevant RFMO which have not been reported or have been misreported, in contravention of the reporting procedures of that organisation. 3. Unregulated fishing refers to fishing activities: – in the area of application of a relevant RFMO that are conducted by vessels without nationality, or by those flying the flag of a State not party to that organisation, or by a fishing entity, in a manner that is not consistent with or contravenes the conservation and management measures of that organisation; or – in areas or for fish stocks in relation to which there are no applicable conservation or management measures and where such fishing activities are conducted in a manner inconsistent with State responsibilities for the conservation of living marine resources under international law. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – point a a) "Fishing vessel" means any vessel of any size used or intended for use for the purposes of commercial exploitation of fishery resources, including support ships, carrier vessels, fish processing vessels and vessels engaged in transhipment; a) "Fishing vessel" means any vessel of any size used or intended for use for the purposes of commercial exploitation of fishery resources, for refrigeration, freezing or processing on board or for transport, including