Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (22 December 2005) A survey of current practices and legal requirements on organ donation and transplantation in Member States and acceding countries was carried out in 2003. The results of this survey can be found at the public health website of the Commission http://europa.eu.int/comm/health/ph_threats/human_substance/documents/organ_survey.pdf . Organ donation and transplantation is an area where the Commission collaborates closely with the Council of Europe. This institution publishes data every year on organ donation and transplantation in a Transplant Newsletter. It is possible to find this information at the Council of Europe website http://www.coe.int/T/E/Social_cohesion/health . The Commission is aware that the severe shortage of organ donors remains a major obstacle, imposing a severe limit to the number of patients who benefit from this form of therapy. With a view to increase organ donation, the work plan 2005 of the public health programme incorporated as a priority the implementation and evaluation of educational programmes in the area of organ donation and transplantation. Other Community programmes in areas of Research, Information Society, and Justice, Freedom and Security have introduced in their objectives diverse aspects oriented to increase organ donation. A number of projects have been funded in this area. For example, in the area of the Information Society, initiatives have been taken allowing transplantation information on available organs to be more accessible and more transparent across the EU. The Commission is currently drawing all the information together and elaborating a Commission document on organ donation and transplantation, including the impact assessment of different options, which will incorporate a global view of all relevant aspects, such as safety and quality, organisation and ethics. This document will cover the aspects raised in the question and will be presented towards the end of 2006.