this report, it has emerged that a consensus might be acceptable to our Committee and Parliament on the following basis: - The Commission would accept the amendments contained in this report and President Prodi would make a new declaration before the plenary in order to reassure Parliament of the Commission's commitment to respecting the terms of his solemn declaration of February 2002 concerning securities in the areas covered by this proposal for a directive. - The Council would incorporate into the directive the amendments contained in this report. These amendments embody essential clauses safeguarding Parliament's interests contained in previous directives on financial markets and in Mr Prodi's solemn declaration before Parliament in February 2002. - The Council would make a declaration renouncing the 'aerosol' clause as currently set out in paragraph 5 (3) of the resolution of the Stockholm European Council or any other provision of equivalent effect in respect of areas covered by the extension of the Lamfalussy process. - The Member States would make a joint declaration reaffirming the political will on their part to adopt the text of Article 35 of the draft Constitutional Treaty for delegated legislative provisions relating to financial services in order to respect the institutional balance between the two branches of the legislative authority. Finally, it should be understood that this directive will be amended once a new Constitution has been adopted in so far as it lays down provisions relating to delegated regulations as contained in the current draft Article 35. 16 March 2004 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON CONSTITUTIONAL AFFAIRS for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directives 73/239/EEC, 85/611/EEC, 91/675/EEC, 93/6/EEC and 94/19/EC and Directives 2000/12/EC, 2002/83/EC and 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, in order to establish a new financial services committee organisational structure ( COM(2003) 659 – C5‑0520/2003 – 2003/0263(COD)) Rapporteur: Lord Inglewood PROCEDURE The Committee on Constitutional Affairs appointed The Lord Inglewood draftsman at its meeting of 19 January 2004. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 16 February 2004 and 16 March 2004. At the last meeting it adopted the following amendments unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Giorgio Napolitano (chairman), Jo Leinen (vice-chairman), Jean-Pierre Bebear (for Cees Bremmer pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Georges Berthu, Giorgio Calò, Richard Corbett, Jean-Maurice Dehousse, Gianfranco Dell'Alba (for Olivier Dupuis), Giorgos Dimitrakopoulos, Andrew Nicholas Duff, José María Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, Anne-Karin Glase (for Luigi Ciriaco De Mita pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Sylvia-Yvonne Kaufmann, Sir Neil MacCormick (for Monica Frassoni), Hans-Peter Martin, Iñigo Méndez de Vigo, Ana Miranda de Lage (for Carlos Carnero González), Camilo Nogueira Román (for Gérard Onesta), Reinhard Rack (for Teresa Almeida Garrett), Helle Thorning-Schmidt (for Enrique Barón Crespo), Françoise Veyrinas (for Jean-Louis Bourlanges) and Johannes Voggenhuber. SHORT JUSTIFICATION While substantive progress has been made, the single market for financial services remains incomplete. Markets remain segmented. Yet, the completion of a genuine single market for financial services is crucial for economic growth and job creation in the European Union. It will