Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (23 June 2006) The Commission confirms that, in 2005, it received and investigated a complaint involving the construction of electricity pylons in the local authority area of Dun Laoghaire 2005/5003. . The complaint expressed concern that no environmental impact assessment (EIA) had been undertaken for this project despite the fact that it affected a scenic area. Having examined the complaint in the light of Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment OJ L 175, 5.7.1985 . as amended by Council Directive 97/11/EC OJ L 73, 14.3.1997 . of 3 March 1997, the Commission decided to close the file. The complaint drew attention to the fact that, in correspondence, the local authority indicated that a size threshold in the Irish legislation automatically excluded the project from EIA, despite the fact that the Irish legislation contains provisions for an EIA in certain circumstances where a threshold is not reached. Directive 85/337/EEC inter alia makes provision for the EIA of powerline projects. Member States have a margin of discretion as to whether to require an EIA in an individual case. To this end, they may employ thresholds or criteria or a combination of these. The relevant Irish legislation provides for an automatic EIA where a size threshold is reached, while at the same time allowing for the possibility of a sub-threshold EIA on a case-by-case basis. In Case C‑87/02, Commission v Italy , the Court of Justice ruled that a decision on whether or not to require an EIA in an individual case (through the process known as ‘screening’) should be the subject of a reasoned record. Prior to receipt of the pylon complaint, the Commission had already made representations to the Irish authorities in relation to the need for Irish authorities to make reasoned records and ensure respect for the sub-threshold provisions of the Irish legislation. In response to these representations, the Irish environment ministry adopted Circular PD3/2005 of 25 July 2005 in which it explicitly referred local authorities to the decision in Case C‑87/02. Although the pylon complaint raised questions about the screening process employed by the responsible local authority, the Commission considered that the subsequent adoption of Circular PD3/2005 addressed the underlying administrative practice and that it was therefore inappropriate for the Commission to pursue the matter further.