EU Member States were given an overall thumbs up by Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee MEPs on Tuesday evening. The Council is an independent body which provides economic advice to the German government and Bundestag. The proposed plans could feature among the discussions among heads of state at the 9 December European summit. Describing the plans, Prof. Dr. Christoph Schmidt, one of the five Council members, said that the idea was to "provide a bridge between the short term fire fighting needs and the longer term ones of better economic governance". The plan would see debt of Eurozone Member States in excess of 60% of GDP hived off into a € 2.3 trillion fund which would be redeemed within 25 years. According to Prof Schmidt, the fund would lower interest rates on the repayment of this debt and would buy time, thereby providing a calm environment in which to work on long term solutions. Furthermore, it would not require a Treaty change and was expected to go down well with the German Constitutional Court, he added. Most MEPs were convinced by the idea, primarily because it could be implemented speedily, could reduce interest rates for the most stressed economies, and could create an incentive culture rather than merely imposing a punishment regime. The main concern raised was that countries currently financing themselves at low rates would be reluctant to participate. To this Prof Schmidt repeatedly replied that the discussion had moved on from one exclusively based on interest rate fairness to one based on the survival of the Euro. "This will not be a choice made only on the basis of achieving low interest rates but a choice in favour of the survival of the Euro. This issue is currently being ignored in Germany", Prof Schmidt said. Parliament seals ban on sovereign debt speculation and short selling limitations 15-11-2011 . Parliament on Tuesday voted into law a regulation to curb short selling and trading in credit default swaps (CDS), a financial product for insuring against default. The rules will impose much more transparency and virtually ban certain CDS trades, thereby making speculation on a country's default more difficult. This is one of the key regulations pushed through by the Commission to tackle the financial crisis. Both short selling and CDS trading are accused of having fuelled market volatility, with CDS trades moreover having been widely blamed for potentially aggravating Greece's troubles. Limiting speculation on a country's default - a key win for Parliament Parliament obtained a ban on naked CDS trading (purchasing default insurance contracts without owning the related bonds). Purchasing Italian CDS, for example, will now be possible only if the buyer already owns Italian government bonds or a stake in a sector highly dependent on the performance of these bonds, such as an Italian bank – in the event of a Italian default, Italian banks would certainly suffer significantly. The sole exception is an option for a national authority to lift the ban for a maximum of 12 months in cases where its sovereign debt market is no longer functioning