Answer given by Baroness Ashton on behalf of the Commission (9 April 2010) The Commission is not in a position to comment on media reports related to the involvement of Pakistan’s ISI in terrorist attacks against India or Indian interests in third countries. The EU does not provide military aid to Pakistan, it is therefore in no position to assess whether military aid supplied to Pakistan could be used against India and Western interests. The Commission welcomes the involvement of third countries in supporting civilian reconstruction and development in Afghanistan. The EU and Pakistan have both publicly committed themselves to strengthening security and stability in Afghanistan and the wider region and to promote sustained, constructive and positive engagement with Afghanistan’s regional neighbours including through enhanced cooperation in combatting terrorism. At the EU‑Pakistan Summit held in Brussels on 17 June 2009 both parties recognised that terrorism, extremism and militancy represent serious threats to international peace and security and should be eliminated and terrorist organisations prevented from recruiting. The EU and Pakistan have initiated cooperation aimed at improving Pakistan’s counter-terrorism capabilites, notably in the field of law enforcement and criminal justice. This is part of the EU’s support for due process and protection of human rights in Pakistan. The EU and Pakistan agreed that it was particularly important to support Pakistan’s National Counter-Terrorism Authority (NACTA) and Pakistan’s police forces. In this regard, Pakistan and the EU are conducting a regular counter-terrorism dialogue. There is also a shared awareness of the vital importance of countering extremism, particularly through education, civil society and mass media communication. In as far as relations between India and Pakistan are concerned, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice-President of the Commission welcomed the recent talks between India’s and Pakistan’s Foreign Secretaries and expressed the hope that this would lead to a serious and responsive dialogue to address the issues of concern between the two countries. In the Commission’s view these should include regional security issues, not least as concerns Afghanistan.