with an engine power between 18 and 560 kW, i.e. for small (railcar) engines. Specifications for heavy-duty engines in railway applications are not a part of this proposal and shall be addressed separately. 2. The Commission wants vessels on inland waterways to improve their environmental performance and therefore extends the scope of the Directive to cover these ships. Sea-going ships are addressed in a separate Communication from the Commission. Both rail and inland waterway shipping are relatively environmentally friendly modes of transport. However, further improvement is necessary in order not to lose this bonus by falling behind other modes of transport that recently have been making significant progress in their environmental performance. The proposal's purpose to further improve air quality, to consider and implement technological progress in that area and thus protect public health within the Community is to be welcomed. This is especially important in the light of an increasing number of vehicles and engines and in the run-up to the enlargement of the European Union. Your rapporteur considers the broadening of the scope of Directive 97/68 a sensible step. This broadening is part of a coherent and balanced overall approach relating to emission reduction. The stepwise tightening of emissions from road vehicles must be accompanied by parallel steps in the non-road sector as proposed by the Commission. The proposal also obliges the Commission to carry out a technical feasibility study by December 2006. The Commission will have to consider the availability of technology and to evaluate the possible need for exemptions as well as the need to amend the scope of the Directive as regards railway applications. In your rapporteur's view there is no need to wait for this study to develop suggestions to cover all railway applications in this Directive. This issue should be addressed without unnecessary delay. The two amendments proposed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism focus on this aspect as well as on further standards for waterborne transport. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism calls on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission not yet published Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 7 (7) Emission standards should also be introduced for certain railway and marine applications to help promote them as environmentally friendly modes of transport. (7) Comparable strict emission standards should also be introduced in due time for railway and waterborne transport to help promote them as environmentally friendly modes of transport. Justification As certain air pollution problems, caused by railways and waterborne transport, have also to be solved and performant technologies are available to improve their environmentally friendliness, adequate measures should be legislated in due time. Amendment 2 Article 2, 3rd indent - evaluate the need to amend the scope of the Directive according to the last developments in the railway transport and interoperability legislative framework in order to cover, in the most effective way, all railway applications. - evaluate the need to amend the scope of the