Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (17 December 2004) 1. Council Directive 90/425/EEC concerning veterinary and zootechnical checks applicable to intra-Community trade in certain live animals and products amended Articles 9 and 10 of Council Directive 64/432/EEC with a view to the completion of the internal market. The latter Directive, which was updated by Directive 97/12/EC and subsequently amended on several occasions by the Council and the Parliament, lays down the animal health rules for trade in bovine animals and swine between Member States of equal and different health status. Additional guarantees in accordance with Article 9 or 10 are only laid down for Aujeszky’s disease and Infectious Bovine Rhinopneumonitis (IBR), two out of four diseases listed in Annex E (II) to Directive 64/432/EEC. Unlike for the eradication of enzootic bovine leucosis, no financial support is provided by the Community for the eradication or maintenance of the free status in relation to IBR. 2. Additional guarantees are to be granted when a Member State has introduced a compulsory national control programme complying with certain criteria and where it can convincingly demonstrate an advanced state of disease eradication. In the case of the Member State referred to by the Honourable Member, the eradication measures for IBR follow the recommendations of the Terrestrial Animal Health Code of the OIE and are complemented with the use of marker vaccines as recommended by the Commission’s Scientific Veterinary Committee. 3. Trade problems were encountered after the adoption of Decision 2004/215/EC, which applied to the relevant Member State the additional guarantees for IBR that had been uncontested since 1995. The Commission then consulted the Member States on the draft for Decision 2004/558/EC, and the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health unanimously approved the Commission’s efforts to limit the impact of additional guarantees on trade. If additional Member States were to implement a compulsory IBR-eradication programme, the list of approved programmes and, where necessary, the additional guarantees would then need to be adapted. 4. Certain Member States introduced voluntary or sector-supported programmes for the eradication of IBR. These programmes are based on different criteria, notably in relation to vaccination, and therefore often incompatible. Although individual holdings in such Member States may have a similar IBR-status as holdings under an approved programme, the non-compulsory nature of the control measures and the lack of guarantees provided by the competent authorities complicate their recognition as equivalent. Therefore, the Commission does not deem it appropriate to modify in relation to IBR the animal health conditions for intra-Community trade in bovine animals which require that all necessary guarantees are provided at the place of departure.