amendments by 28 votes, with 7 abstentions. The following were present for the vote: Carlos Westendorp y Cabeza, chairman; Nuala Ahern and Peter Michael Mombaur, vice-chairmen; Rolf Linkohr, draftsman; Ward Beysen (for Nicholas Clegg), Guido Bodrato, Yves Butel, Gérard Caudron, Giles Bryan Chichester, Willy C.E.H. De Clercq, Concepció Ferrer, Francesco Fiori (for Renato Brunetta ), Colette Flesch, Jacqueline Foster (for Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl), Neena Gill (for Eryl Margaret McNally), Norbert Glante, Michel Hansenne, Malcolm Harbour (for Konrad K. Schwaiger), Roger Helmer, Hans Karlsson, Peter Liese (for Werner Langen), Caroline Lucas, Nelly Maes, Yves Piétrasanta, Samuli Pohjamo (for Elly Plooij-van Gorsel), John Purvis, Christian Foldberg Rovsing, Gilles Savary (for Harlem Désir), Esko Olavi Seppänen, Claude Turmes (for Ilka Schröder), Jaime Valdivielso de Cué, Alejo Vidal-Quadras Roca, Dominique Vlasto, Anders Wijkman and Olga Zrihen Zaari. SHORT JUSTIFICATION There is no apparent reason from a research policy point of view why coal and steel should continue to be treated differently from oil and ceramics, to take examples of the same kind. No-one would ever think of creating a research fund for coal and steel if it were not for the history of the ECSC Treaty. No harm would be done to coal and steel research if they were to be fully incorporated into the Framework Programme in the same way as other activities. The proposal to establish a separate fund is therefore driven not by the logic of research but by the constraints of the legal situation. It could be argued that, even if this is true, there is nothing we can do about it. However, unlike the laws of nature, politics has a room for manoeuvre which it can choose to make use of – or not. In this case, neither the Council nor the Commission has chosen to use it. It is not as though there were no alternatives. For example, one might consider scrapping the idea of a fund and placing the reserves from the ECSC budget in the general budget with the proviso that they should be used within the Research Framework Programme to fund coal and steel research. This would not cost any extra money and would give a clearer outline to the European Research Area system. Another possibility, which your draftsman prefers, would be to create a second pillar of European research. Starting from the proposed model of a fund, a European research foundation could be created which would exist independently alongside the Research Framework Programme. The initial model might – in order to reflect the current mood in the Council and Commission – be similar to the one set out in the Commission proposal. However, it should contain a clause enabling it to be extended to other areas in due course, provided that the appropriations in the fund are increased by subsidies or grants. There are a number of arguments in favour of this proposal. Firstly it is to be expected that we will have to give ourselves a more clearly defined profile in a number of research areas. These include dealing with new epidemics, AIDS, tropical diseases etc.,