the first legal instrument adopted in the field of audiovisual services was the 1989 ‘Television without Frontiers’ Directive, subsequently revised in 1997. Amendment 9 Recital 1 a (new) (1a) The European Community has already intervened in the field of audiovisual and information services in order to create the necessary conditions to ensure the free movement of television broadcasts and other information services, respecting the principles of free competition and freedom of expression and information, but it should intervene with greater determination in this area with the aim of laying down a set of legal provisions, also adopting measures to combat and protect consumers from incitement to discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. Justification It is necessary to prevent the possibility of the information and communication media being used to incite discrimination, hatred or violence. Amendment 10 Recital 5 (5) The changing media landscape, resulting from new technologies and media innovation, makes it necessary to teach children, and also parents, to use the media effectively. (5) The changing media landscape, resulting from new technologies and media innovation, makes it necessary to teach children, and also parents , teachers and trainers , to use all the media effectively , in particular audiovisual and information services, whatever their form of delivery . Justification The exponential pace of technological progress means that there is an urgent need to teach not only children and parents but especially - given their formative role in society - teachers and trainers to make proper use of the media, and in particular audiovisual and information services. It should also be taken into account that the scope of the recommendation covers audiovisual and information services in general, whatever the form or technical medium used for their delivery. Amendment 11 Recital 5 a (new) (5a) Given that the arrival of terrestrial digital television will make parental monitoring possible, which is essential if children are to be prevented from gaining access to televised content against their parents' wishes, the European Union should guide the process of transition to terrestrial digital television under the aim of shortening the deadline for 'analog blackout' as much as possible. Justification One of the many benefits terrestrial digital television will bring is the possibility for parents to monitor the programmes their children watch. We should avoid the uneven development of this technology across the EU, as this could widen the existing digital gap among the 25 Member States. Amendment 12 Recital 6 (6) In the public consultation concerning Directive 97/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 1997 amending Council Directive 89/552/EEC on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities, it was suggested that media literacy be included among the subjects covered by Recommendation 98/560/EC. (6) In the public consultation concerning Directive 97/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 1997 amending Council Directive 89/552/EEC on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law,