Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (28 February 2006) Earthquakes pose a threat to several European countries and particularly in the larger Mediterranean region where the eastern part is often confronted with high sismicity. Several research programmes in research and technological development framework programme 4 (FP4) and FP5 have addressed, in a broad sense, both the geophysical/seismology issues as well as the geotechnical and earthquake engineering ones. For example, in FP5, the Environment programme has funded around 25 earthquake related research projects for a total of EUR 24 million. In those 25 projects, the Greek scientific community was present in 15 projects. For FP6, at this stage, four projects, with total Community contribution of around EUR 9 million, are concerned with multi-hazards including earthquakes. Greek scientists are present in three of the four projects. Amongst them, the 3HAZ Corinth project (Earthquakes, tsunami and landslides in the Corinth rift) aims to contribute to better measure, model and predict the processes leading to earthquakes and their effects. The Lessloss Integrated project (Risk mitigation for earthquakes and landslides) wishes to improve the earthquake resistant design of structures, reduce vulnerability of buildings and improve pre-disaster planning and mitigation actions. The recent FP6 call for research projects in the global change and ecosystem programme (Global 4) has precisely focused on the ‘Reduction of seismic risks’ with the aim to improve for example the capacity of real-time seismology, to provide improved information and warning, to contribute to the scenario development and to the mitigation of catastrophic event. Two new projects have been selected for negotiation in January 2006. Furthermore, in the FP6 research infrastructures programme, an important network of research infrastructures for European seismology is under negotiation. All these research activities contribute to the improvement of the EU's seismic hazard assessment capacity, which is still not satisfactory, nevertheless, in the field of earthquakes. FP7 will continue to support research work in this challenging field. Concerning specific studies, the Commission generally refrains from commenting on the scientific merit of particular research studies, the scientific community being the appropriate forum for questioning and debating research results and their potential applications. Regarding European civil protection, the Commission is taking measures to strengthen the Union’s preparedness and response capacity to major emergencies. In the recent earthquake in Greece, to give one example, the Commission’s Civil Protection Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC) was alerted by its early warning tools immediately after the earthquake on 8 January 2006 and made immediate contact with the Greek authorities to inquire if assistance through the civil protection mechanism was required. The earthquake occurred less than a month after the MIC had organised an exercise simulating a tsunami emergency in the eastern Mediterranean, in which the civil protection services of 17 European countries participated. The MIC also established, with the support of the EC Joint Research Centre (JRC), a monitoring and alert tool (MIC Daily) in August 2005, which covers available early warning and alert information in a comprehensive way. It is updated on a daily basis and disseminated to civil protection authorities in