Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (17 January 2007) Trafficking is a modern form of slavery and a serious form of organised crime. The Commission has adopted a human rights and victim-centred approach as the essential strategy to assist and protect victims, and simultaneously improve investigation and prosecution. Trafficking is a complex phenomenon, which involves different forms of violence and abuse, and exploitation, (sexual exploitation, labour exploitation, domestic servitude). Every type of trafficking must be tackled by targeted means. The need for effective procedures aimed at ensuring early identification of victims of trafficking must be stressed, in particular child victims, as was underlined in the Helsinki Conference held by the Finnish Presidency. The EU Action Plan EU plan on best practices, standards and procedures for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings (2005/C 311/01), OJ C 311, 9.12.2005. is the framework for concrete actions and contains the EU strategy in this area. A lot has already been achieved and further actions are underway. A Report on the implementation of the Action Plan will be issued in 2007, taking into account the outcome of a comprehensive questionnaire, disseminated at the end of 2006. Furthermore, the Commission is monitoring the transposition of the Directive 2004/81 Council Directive 2004/81/EC of 29 April 2004 on the residence permit issued to third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings or who have been the subject of an action to facilitate illegal immigration, who cooperate with the competent authorities. OJ L 261, 6.8.2004. . The transposition deadline for Member States expired on 6 August 2006 and two Member States only (Greece, Poland) have notified the full transposition. The Commission has opened the infringement procedure against those Member States that have not notified, or notified partially the transposition of the directive. As far as the international context is concerned, the Commission has supported initiatives in West Africa towards the Declaration of Libreville and is working on supporting a regional high level declaration of commitment linked to a costed action plan in Southern Africa (where 10 million orphans and vulnerable children (OVCs) affected by human immunodeficiency virus/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (HIV/AIDS) are more vulnerable). The thematic chapter of Investing in People of the development Cooperation Instruments, plans support to regional and global actions to fight trafficking of children. Regional plans will include specific actions in the region involving regional structures and national governments, and enhancing their capacities in birth registration and monitoring of needs of children at greatest risk, development and enforcement of relevant legislation to prevent and prosecute child trafficking and protection and rehabilitation of victims, as stated in the Convention the Rights of the Child (CRC) and the Palermo Protocol.