as well as the attention for the child labour issue in the context of all EU-Uzbekistan meetings. But there is room for more to be done. ILO access remains essential to establish the facts and to begin working towards a solution for the children of Uzbekistan. The IPEC program of the ILO would be important in this respect. The rapporteur welcomes the agreement on setting up an EU Delegation in Tashkent and believes it should be used to obtain information on the ground and to increase the EU’s political profile. Forced child labour must be a priority issue in the EU human rights strategy in Uzbekistan, translated into monitoring, reporting and financial assistance. The rapporteur favours a positive approach, which should also include assistance to Uzbekistan. EU assistance should focus on agricultural reform through the promotion of reducing administrative regulation in cotton. In Kazakhstan, and to a lesser extent in Tajikistan, progress is being made. Making cotton production more profitable for farmers themselves would lead to less adult labour leaving Uzbekistan and would lead to more investment in machines on farms. The rapporteur also welcomes the Council’s call on the Commission to report on the relationship between the worst forms of child labour. This report should come with proposals on how the EU can effectively trace products produced using the worst forms of child labour. The rapporteur believes that, as long as the Uzbek Government continues to refuse ILO full access, the EU should initiate an investigation into the temporary withdrawal of the GSP rights for Uzbek cotton. The rapporteur is aware that, in the past, the Commission was awaiting the establishment of an ILO committee of inquiry. The rapporteur welcomes, in this sense, the new GSP proposal that eliminates this condition in order for an investigation to take place. However, the rapporteur stresses that the current procedure to start an investigation should not be seen as an impediment for acting. The EU should not be giving preferential access to cotton import produced through forced child labour. Conclusion The rapporteur has drafted an interim report on the textiles protocol in order to allow the EU to show its leadership in the field of a common commercial policy in line with the values and objectives of the Union. The rapporteur wants to enter into dialogue with the Commission and the Council in order to frame a coherent EU policy towards Uzbekistan, in which human rights concerns are at the core. The positive instruments for change are there but they also need to be implemented. 6.10.2011 OPINION of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the Committee on International Trade on the draft Council decision on the conclusion of a Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, amending the Agreement in order to extend the provisions of the Agreement to bilateral trade in textiles, taking account of the expiry of the bilateral textiles Agreement (16384/2010 – C7‑0097/2011 – 2010/0323(NLE) ) Rapporteur: