reasons therefor, shall be made to the President, who shall place it before the Bureau. If the matter is urgent, the President may take the decision himself. Should the request be rejected by the Bureau or the President the reasons for the rejection shall be stated. Rule 129 Attendance of Members at sittings 1. An attendance register shall be laid open for signature by Members at each sitting. 2. The names of Members present, as shown in the attendance register, shall be recorded in the minutes of each sitting. CHAPTER 2 ORDER OF BUSINESS OF PARLIAMENT Rule 130 Draft agenda 1. Before each part-session the draft agenda shall be drawn up by the Conference of Presidents on the basis of recommendations by the Conference of Committee Chairmen and taking into account the agreed annual legislative programme referred to in Rule 33. The Commission and Council may attend the deliberations of the Conference of Presidents on the draft agenda at the invitation of the President. 2. The draft agenda may indicate voting times for certain items down for consideration. 3. One or two periods, together totalling a maximum of 60 minutes, may be set aside in the draft agenda for debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115. 4. The final draft agenda shall be distributed to Members at least three hours before the beginning of the part-session. Rule 131 Procedure in plenary without amendment and debate 1. Any legislative proposal (first reading) and any non-legislative motion for a resolution adopted in committee with fewer than one-tenth of the members of the committee voting against shall be placed on the draft agenda of Parliament for vote without amendment. The item shall then be subject to a single vote unless, before the drawing up of the final draft agenda, political groups or individual Members who together constitute one-tenth of the Members of Parliament have requested in writing that the item be open to amendment, in which case the President shall fix a deadline for tabling amendments. 2. Items placed on the final draft agenda for vote without amendment shall also be without debate unless Parliament, when adopting its agenda at the start of a part-session, decides otherwise on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, or if requested by a political group or at least forty Members. 3. When drawing up the final draft agenda of a part-session, the Conference of Presidents may propose that other items be taken without amendment or without debate. When adopting its agenda, Parliament may not accept any such proposal if a political group or at least forty Members have tabled their opposition in writing at least one hour before the opening of the part-session. 4. When an item is taken without debate, the rapporteur or the chairman of the committee responsible may make a statement of not more than two minutes immediately prior to the vote. Rule 132 Adopting and amending the agenda 1. At the beginning of each part-session, Parliament shall take a decision on the final