(important) contribution to the overall aim of fostering research. Budget-related aspects are just one part of research policy. Other elements also play a significant role such as cultural background, the economic environment (market forces), the protection of intellectual property rights (conditions for registering patents) etc. All of these issues affect the willingness of researchers and private companies to invest time and money. Therefore, the European research programmes can only be one part of the solution. Energy Challenges 13. Energy is one of the subjects included under the Specific Research Programmes. The objective is quite ambitious: " Transforming the current fossil-fuel based energy system into a more sustainable one based on a diverse portfolio of energy sources and carriers combined with enhanced energy efficiency, to address the pressing challenges of security of supply and climate change, whilst increasing the competitiveness of Europe´s energy industry. " Annex 1 of the Commission Proposal for a Specific Programme "Cooperation" COM (2005)440 The rapporteur highlights the major potential contribution of fusion technology to efforts in delivering safe and secure energy supplies. 14. Indeed, there is a wide range of challenges ahead for EU energy policy. Needless to stress that the problem of high dependence on imports from third countries has been highlighted by recent events (currently, imports account for 50% of total EU demand - this figure is projected to rise to 70% by 2030 if current trends persist). Reserves are concentrated in a few countries. Today, roughly half of the EU’s gas consumption comes from only three countries (Russia, Norway, and Algeria). On current trends, gas imports would increase to 80 % over the next 25 years. Security of supply has thus become one of the major concerns of the EU´s energy policy. 15. Given the crucial role of the energy sector for the competitiveness and the economic growth of the EU, all activities in this field contribute directly to attaining the objectives of the Lisbon strategy, such as the completion of the internal market for gas and electricity, the promotion of eco-innovation and of European technology initiatives in environment friendly technologies. 16. There is also an urgent need for investment. In Europe alone, to meet expected energy demand and to replace ageing infrastructure, investments of around one trillion euros will be needed over the next 20 years. Key budget-related issues 17. In the PDB 2007 the Commission proposes EUR 120,42 million in commitment appropriations for research related to energy. 18. There are several energy-related fields of research that will be covered by FP7: § hydrogen and fuel cells : The aim is a strategic, integrated programme for transport, stationary and portable applications aimed at building a competitive EU fuel cell and hydrogen supply and equipment industry. § renewable electricity (photovoltaics, wind, biomass, geothermal energy, ocean and small hydropower): research should aim at increasing overall conversion efficiency, driving down the cost of electricity significantly, enhancing system reliability and reducing the environmental impact further. § renewable fuel production ("biofuels"): Improve technologies for the sustainable production and supply chains of solid, liquid and gaseous fuels from biomass in