Reply (18 June 2007) Article 6(1) of the Treaty on European Union lays down that ‘the Union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, principles which are common to the Member States.’ At the same time, in the fourth indent of Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, the Union sets itself the objective to maintain and develop the European Union as an area of freedom, security and justice. For cooperation on justice and home affairs and enhanced data exchange in this context, it is therefore important, as the EU has consistently emphasised, that the fight against terrorism must be conducted with full respect for the rule of law and human rights. The Hague programme for strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union confirms that fundamental rights must be fully respected. The European Union, including its institutions, has to ensure that in all its areas of activity, fundamental rights are not only respected but also actively promoted. Furthermore, the EU counter-terrorism strategy makes a strategic commitment to combat terrorism globally while respecting international law and human rights. A reasonable level of data protection is a major element in respect for the rule of law and human rights. A proposal for a framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters was presented to the Council at the end of 2005 and work is actively being pursued. Introduction of appropriate data-protection standards is a major concern in ongoing work on the proposal for a Council decision establishing the European Police Office and the initiative for a Council decision on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, as well as on the development of new IT systems such as the visa information system and the second-generation Schengen information system. As regards the Frontex Agency, Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 of 26 October 2004 establishing a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union stipulates the respect for fundamental rights and the observation of the principles recognised by Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union and reflected in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.