European Parliament votes at first reading on pesticides package Environment 2007-10-25 - 09:04 New EU legislation on pesticides was approved with amendments by the European Parliament at first reading on Tuesday 23 October. MEPs voted to ban aerial spraying with pesticides and to prohibit the use of pesticides in buffer zones round water courses. They also approved plans to ban or at least restrict pesticides in parks and sports grounds. However, they threw out proposals to divide the EU into three zones for the purposes of approving new pesticide products. In a report on a draft directive on the sustainable use of pesticides (drafted by Christa Klass (EPP-ED, DE) under co-decision first reading), Parliament backed a ban on aerial spraying (under which derogations would be allowed). MEPs rejected an amendment calling for farmers to be required to inform neighbours in advance if they plan to spray with pesticides. While agreeing that there should be buffer zones around water courses such as rivers and lakes, they rejected the idea that such zones should be 10 metres wide or indeed any specific width, preferring to leave this decision to Member States. Parliament agreed that pesticide use should be banned or restricted to a minimum in public areas such as parks and public gardens, and added further areas such as public healthcare facilities and substantial no-spray zones around these areas. Member States will be required to set up National Action Plans for reducing pesticide use, but the Commission proposed leaving the details to each state. Parliament today rejected the precise EU-wide figures for pesticide reduction proposed by its Environment Committee, opting instead for reduction targets in some cases only, e.g. for substances of "very high concern". Lastly, MEPs threw out the idea that Member States must fund their National Action Plans through taxes or levies or that a Community level tax should be introduced to discourage pesticide use. Approval of new pesticides Parliament also voted on a report on a draft regulation on the authorisation of new plant protection products (drafted by Hiltrud Breyer (Greens/EFA, DE) also under co-decision first reading. Under the regulation, a positive list of active substances (the key ingredients of pesticides) will be drawn up at EU level. New plant protection products (i.e. pesticides) will then be authorised at national level on the basis of this list. The Commission proposed that most new substances should be approved initially for 10 years, though low-risk ones would be approved for 15 years. Those which could be replaced by less toxic substances would be approved for only 7 years. In the latter case, the Parliament voted to cut the period to 5 years to encourage the use of non-chemical alternatives. The Commission proposed that all subsequent renewals should be for unlimited periods but Parliament took a more cautious line, voting today for approvals to be renewed "once or repeatedly for a period not exceeding 10 years". MEPs voted against the Commission's idea of dividing the EU into three geographical zones for pesticide approvals, opting instead for a single EU-wide mutual recognition system, within which