Answer given by Mrs Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (9 February 2010) In 2005 the European Commission decided to fund under the Public Health Programme the creation of a European Autism Information System (EAIS), with the Hope Project (Ireland) as project leader. Autistic spectrum disorders (ASDs) seem to be on the increase. However, no information on their prevalence is available at European level. The information available is affected by inconsistent diagnoses, lack of agreement on case definition and different case selection methods. The unreliability and inconsistency of epidemiological figures means that the social and economic burden of ASDs in Europe is not therefore adequately understood. Through the EAIS Project, the Commission is trying to establish an information system to record ASD data in an agreed format across the EU to determine both the prevalence and financial burden of the disease and to monitor ongoing trends. After the completion of the project this system could be further developed as a full-scale EU surveillance system .This action is included in the Work Plan 2010 for the Implementation of the Second Health Programme (2008‑13). A second EAIS output relates to the early detection and diagnosis of the disease, given that early and intensive education can help children to develop and learn new skills and is a key element in the treatment of children with ASD. Additionally an EU project European network of surveillance on risk factors for autism and cerebral palsy (ENSCAP), coordinated by the Aarhus Universitet (Denmark), was selected for funding in 2006 in order to define pre- and perinatal risk factors for these conditions. In addition to the work carried out through the Public Health Programme, the association may be interested in participating in the EU's Seventh EU Framework Programme for Research (FP7). Details about this programme and open calls for proposals are available at http://cordis.europa.eu/fp7/health/home_en.html, more information and individual advice at the national contact point in Italy (Nicola Bergonzi, Caterina Buonocore, contact details: http://cordis.europa.eu/fp7/ncp_it.html) To ensure a regular consultation with ASD stakeholders the Commission organises an annual meeting with a Panel of European Experts on ASD (next meeting, 11-12 March 2010) and will support the Conference European Autism Action 2020: Working Conference on a European Strategic Plan for Autism (Dublin, November 2010).