to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 RECITAL 4 (4) A conditional extension of the general lending mandate of the European Investment Bank (EIB) to Russia and the Western New Independent States (WNIS) should be envisaged to support the policy based on the Commission Communication “Wider Europe – Neighbourhood: A New Framework for Relations with our Eastern and Southern Neighbours”. (4) A conditional extension of the general lending mandate of the European Investment Bank (EIB) to Russia and the Western New Independent States (WNIS) and to the eight Southern and Eastern New Independent States, which are partner States under Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) n°99/2000, concerning the TACIS assistance, should be envisaged to support the policy based on the Commission Communication “Wider Europe – Neighbourhood: A New Framework for Relations with our Eastern and Southern Neighbours, in accordance with the resolution of the European Parliament of 20 November 2003 .” Justification There is no definition agreed by the EU institutions of "The Wider Europe" once the 5th Enlargement is in place, i.e. 1 May 2004. The Communication from the Commission on Wider Europe ( COM(2003) 104 final) seeks to encourage the Council and the EP to face up to the new realities of the enlarged EU's new geographical proximity and increased interdependence with its eastern and southern neighbours. The EP's resolution of 20 November 2003, based on the Napoletano report ( A5-0378/2003 ), takes a broader view of the concept of "Wider Europe". Its paragraphs 5, 8, 14, in particular 27 and 47, point to a simple criterion: "countries that have had some formal economic, political or cultural relationship with the EU should maintain it after the 5th Enlargement". And its paragraph 27 states: "the EIB should be given a mandate and appropriate resources to extend loans to all of eastern Europe". Amendment 2 ARTICLE 1, POINT 1 Article 1, point (a), point (i), sub-paragraph “The Community shall grant the European Investment Bank (EIB) a global guarantee in respect of all payments not received by it but due in respect of credits opened, in accordance with its usual criteria, and in support of the Community’s relevant external policy objectives, for investment projects carried out in the South-eastern Neighbours, the Mediterranean countries, Latin America and Asia, Republic of South Africa and Russia and Western New Independent States (WNIS).” “The Community shall grant the European Investment Bank (EIB) a global guarantee in respect of all payments not received by it but due in respect of credits opened, in accordance with its usual criteria, and in support of the Community’s relevant external policy objectives, for investment projects carried out in the South-eastern Neighbours, the Mediterranean countries, Latin America and Asia, Republic of South Africa, Russia and Western New Independent States (WNIS) and Southern and Eastern New Independent States (SENIS) .” Justification This amendment follows the logic and content of the amendment to recital (4), and seeks to enlarge the mandate granted to the EIB as justified in the previous amendment.