refer ACTA to the European Court of Justice for a ruling on the agreement. Parliament will wait for the Court's ruling before drawing any conclusions. However, in the meantime it will continue its own scrutiny of the agreement. How will the European Parliament come to a decision? The European Parliament is committed to doing everything in the open and actively encourages people to engage in the process, consult its documents or follow the meetings, which are mainly broadcast live on its website. The preparatory work will be done by the parliamentary committees. The committee on international trade will be in charge and as such will come up with a recommendation for the Parliament to either approve or reject ACTA. British MEP David Martin, a member of the S&D group, has been chosen by the committee to draft the position of the Parliament. However, there will be four other committees which will deliver their opinions on ACTA: the committee on industry, research and energy; the committee on legal affairs; the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs; and the committee on development. They will spend several months talking to as many stakeholders and interested parties as possible in order to draw on their knowledge and expertise and come to an informed decision. Many, if not all, of their meetings will be broadcast live on the Parliament's website. Once the recommendation to MEPs is available, it will be made publicly accessible. The Parliament will then vote on ACTA during a plenary session, which people will be able to follow live on the website. What has the European Parliament said so far about ACTA? So far there have been three resolutions to call on the Commission to make ACTA documents public and increase the Parliament's role in negotiating the content: a resolution on 11 March 2009 called on the Commission to "immediately make all documents related to the ongoing international negotiations on the ACTA publicly available" a resolution on 10 March 2010 rejected the secrecy around ACTA ("deplores the calculated choice of the parties not to negotiate through well-established international bodies, such as WIPO and WTO") ("expresses its concern over the lack of a transparent process in the conduct of the ACTA negotiations, a state of affairs at odds with the letter and spirit of the TFEU") a resolution on 24 November 2010 welcomes ACTA as a step in the right direction and calls on the Commission to confirm that it will have no impact on basic freedoms and existing legislation What happens if the European Parliament votes in favour? Cyprus, Estonia, Slovakia, Germany and the Netherlands would still have to sign the agreement and all member states would still have to ratify it before it can enter into force in the EU. What happens if the European Parliament rejects it? ACTA will not be able to enter into force in the EU. No agreement would be possible without the consent of the Parliament. However, if six countries outside the EU still ratify it then the agreement will enter into force there. How will