account of the objectives and characteristics of the instruments defined in Annex III to the sixth framework programme in order to guarantee the most efficient implementation possible , taking into account the need for easy access of participants through simplified procedures. This will be especially the case for SMEs, owing to the participation of enterprise groupings . (3) The rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities should take account of the nature of the research and technological development activities, including demonstration activities. They may, moreover, vary depending on whether the participant is based in a Member State, in an Associated State – whether a candidate country or not – or in a third country, and on its legal structure, namely whether it is a national organisation, an international organisation – of European interest or not – a small or medium-sized enterprise, a European Economic Interest Grouping, or an association formed by participants. (4) In conformity with the sixth framework programme, the participation of legal entities from third countries should be envisaged, in line with the objectives of international cooperation, particularly as enshrined in Articles 164 and 170 of the Treaty. (5) International organisations which are dedicated to developing cooperation in the field of research in Europe and which are largely made up of Member States or Associated States contribute to the creation of the European Research Area. They should therefore be encouraged to participate in the sixth framework programme. (6) The Joint Research Centre (hereinafter referred to as the "JRC") takes part in indirect research and technological development actions on the same basis as legal entities established in a Member State. (7) Activities under the sixth framework programme should comply with the financial interests of the Community and should safeguard those interests. The Commission's responsibility for implementation of the framework programme and its specific programmes also includes the financial aspects arising therefrom. (8) The rules governing the dissemination of research results should promote the protection of the intellectual property and the use and dissemination of those results. They should ensure that participants have mutual access to pre-existing know-how and to knowledge arising from research work to the extent necessary to conduct the research work or to use the resulting knowledge. At the same time, they should guarantee the protection of the participants' intellectual assets. They should also take account of the features of the integrated projects and networks of excellence, in particular by offering a high degree of flexibility to the participants, and allowing them to agree among themselves on the most suitable arrangements for their collaboration and for the exploitation of the resulting knowledge. These agreements may form part of a consortium agreement. (9) Activities under the sixth framework programme should be conducted in compliance with ethical principles, including those reflected in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and should strive both to increase the role of women in research and to improve information for, and dialogue with, society , as well as promoting participation from the outermost regions of the Community , HAVE ADOPTED