by the competent authorities of the Member State of residence in conformity with their national law. Amendment 15 ARTICLE 1, POINT 1 B (new) Article 4, paragraph 2 (Directive 93/109/EC) (1b) In Article 4, paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the following: "2. Community voters may stand as a candidate in more than one Member State for the same election, as long as the law of the Member State of residence does not exclude that possibility in respect of its nationals, and the Community voter satisfies the conditions in respect of the right to stand as a candidate as provided for in the law of the other Member State concerned." Justification The Act of 1976 explicitly excludes double voting, but does not exclude double candidature. According to the applicable primary law it is therefore up to the discretion of the Member State concerned to allow dual candidature. Amendment 16 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2, POINT (-A) (new) Article 6, paragraph 1 (Directive 93/109/EC) (-a) paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: "1. The Member State of residence may provide that citizens of the Union who, through an individual criminal or civil law decision, have been deprived of the right to stand as a candidate under the law of their home Member State, are to be precluded from exercising that right in the Member State of residence in elections to the European Parliament if they would have been deprived of that right under the national law of that State for the same misdemeanour and in the same manner." Justification The Treaty of Maastricht introduced genuine citizen's rights in the form of electoral rights for the citizens of the Union residing in another Member State. These rights depend on the fact that he or she has the nationality of one Member State but are not derived from or conditioned by the right to vote or to stand in the home Member State. Such citizens must be treated as far as possible as if they were nationals of the Member State of residence. This means that circumstances affecting electoral rights based on the legal situation in the home Member State have to be appreciated by the Member State of residence in the light of the relevant provisions of its own national law. There is therefore no need and no place for "exporting" disqualifications or for their mandatory recognition. The prohibition to stand as a candidate in the home Member State does not lead to a general prohibition in all Member States. Amendment 17 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2, POINT (A) Article 6, paragraph 2 (Directive 93/109/EC) 2. The Member State of residence shall check whether the citizens of the Union who have expressed a desire to exercise their right to stand as a candidate there have not been deprived of that right in the home Member State through an individual civil law or criminal law decision. 2. The Member State of residence may check whether the citizens of the Union who have expressed a desire to exercise their right to stand as a candidate there have