Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (20 March 2009) Allergy is among the most common causes of morbidity in children, having a serious health impact. While the precise role of the environment as a causative factor is not known, environmental conditions play a determinant role triggering allergic reactions. According to Article 152 of the Treaty, Community action in the field of public health shall fully respect the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health systems. It is the role of the Commission to support Member States through providing comparable data and information and to support activities where there is clear added value for Community action while always respecting the subsidiarity principle. The Commission 2003 Environment and Health Strategy has a strong focus on the prevention of allergy, asthma and other respiratory diseases. The strategy is currently being implemented by the 2004‑10 Environment and Health Action Plan. The action plan aims, inter alia , to establish a good understanding of the link between environmental factors and childhood respiratory diseases, asthma and allergies. The 2004-10 Environment and Health Action Plan is coming to its end and the Commission is currently assessing and reviewing the most updated research results in order to take the most appropriate steps to protect EU citizens and in particular vulnerable groups such as children from allergies and respiratory diseases. The Commission is also collaborating with the World Health Organisation (WHO) in the European Environment and Health Process to help Member States adopt preventive targeted health measures towards known risk factors relevant for allergic disorders. The 5th Ministerial Conference on health and environment to be held in Parma in 2010 will be a good occasion to stress and renew these commitments. For more details reference is made to the reply to Parliamentary Question E‑1995/08 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB/application/home.do?language=EN .