shall be required on the modified vehicle on condition that the evaporative control devices are kept as fitted by the manufacturer of the base vehicle. An EC type approval issued to the most representative base vehicle remains valid irrespective of change in the reference mass. W 2 Requirements must be complied with, but modification of the routing, length of the refuelling duct, fuel hoses and fuel vapour pipes is permitted. Re-location of the original fuel tank is permitted. W 3 A wheel-chair location is considered as a seating position. For each wheel-chair sufficient space shall be provided. The longitudinal plane of the special area shall be parallel to the longitudinal plane of the vehicle. Appropriate information shall be made available to the vehicle owner that a wheel-chair used as a seat in the vehicle must be capable of withstanding the forces transmitted by the tie-down mechanism during the various driving conditions. Appropriate adaptations may be made to the seats of the vehicle provided that their anchorages, mechanisms and head restraints guarantee the same level of performance provided for in the Directive. W 4 Compliance with Directive shall be required for the boarding aids when in the resting position. W 5 Each wheel-chair location shall be fitted with an integrated restraint system which consists of a restraint system for the wheel-chair and a restraint system for the wheel-chair user. Anchorages for restraint systems shall resist forces as prescribed in Directive 76/115/EEC and in Standard ISO 10542-1: 2001. Webbings and hardware intended to secure the wheel-chair (tie-down mechanisms) shall meet the requirements of Directive 77/541/EEC and of the relevant part of Standard ISO 10542. Tests shall be performed by the technical service which has been appointed for testing and checking in accordance with the Directives referred to above. The criteria are those included in these Directives. Tests shall be performed with the surrogate wheel-chair described in Standard ISO 10542. W 6. When, due to the conversion, anchorage points for the safety belts need to be moved outside the tolerance provided for in point 2.7.8.1. of Annex I to Directive 77/541/EEC, the technical service shall check whether the alteration constitutes a worst case or not. If that is the case, the test provided for in Annex VII to Directive 77/541/EEC shall be performed. Extension to the EC type-approval does not need to be issued. W 7. A new measurement relating to CO 2 emissions does not need to be performed when, in application of the provisions under W 1 , no fresh tests have to be performed with regard to tail pipe emissions. W 8 For the purposes of calculations, the mass of the wheel-chair including the user shall be assumed to be 100 kg. The mass shall be concentrated at the H point of the three-dimensional machine. The technical service shall also consider the possibility to use electric wheelchair(s), the mass of which, including the user, is assumed to be 250 kg. Any limitation in the passenger capacity resulting from the use of electric wheelchair(s) shall be recorded in the type-approval certificate and an