to the levels envisaged when the legislation was approved. We need to ‘fix’ the ETS. To combat global warming CO 2 emissions must be reduced on a worldwide basis. The latest indicators are not encouraging; emissions increased by 6 per cent during 2010. CO 2 is accumulating in the atmosphere at an accelerating rate. A recent assessment by scientists who had voiced doubts about the evidence of global warming concluded that temperatures were indeed rising at a rate very close to that estimated by the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. EU Member States were amongst the first in the world to industrialise and greatly increase their use of fossil fuels; we have responsibilities now to exercise leadership by reducing our CO 2 emissions. Some fear that adoption of the Roadmap, together with the emissions reduction trajectory and milestones it proposes, will handicap European competitiveness - and for little value. The EU is responsible now only for 11% of global CO 2 emissions and our actions alone will not curb the warming process. But the rapporteur argues that investment in developing a low carbon economy will strengthen Europe’s competitive position not detract from it; indeed he regards it as essential for our self-protection. It is often pointed out that China is still 70% dependent upon coal as a source of electricity, but the country is also the world largest developer of both renewable energy and nuclear power. Its current 5-year plan gives priority to low carbon ‘green’ investments, and on a scale that dwarfs those of Europe by a huge margin. We urgently need to back the technologies that will win and invest in the processes that use energy and resources much more efficiently. The positive case for setting ambitious targets is well illustrated by the rapid success achieved over recent years in reducing CO 2 emissions from new passenger cars. The increase in their fuel efficiency is helping to offset the consequences for drivers of the rise in fuel costs, and contrary to claims made when the EU legislation was proposed the average price of new cars has fallen in real terms. We might consider also the investments being made by companies like Rolls Royce in developing more fuel efficient aircraft engines. Cutting edge industry, high tech and high skilled, creating the products we need in ways that require the use of fewer resources and emitting less CO 2 in their manufacture, must surely be the ambition for Europe. It is the true ‘green economy’ we seek. Some energy intensive industries have voiced fears about the threat of ‘carbon leakage’, of business moving out of Europe to avoid higher costs resulting from the measures being taken to reduce CO 2 emissions. Such developments would certainly not be good for Europe’s economy and would do nothing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally. If such instances can be proven measures should be taken to protect or compensate the industries concerned. But the evidence suggests that the threat is much exaggerated. We should be cautious of industry lobbyists seeking to justify claims for assistance