proliferation’, D. having regard to the growing international consensus on the urgent need for nuclear disarmament, as promoted by the New Agenda Coalition and in the Rome Declaration of the World Summit of Nobel Peace Prize Winners (convened by Mikhail Gorbachev and the Mayor of Rome, Walter Veltroni) of 30 November 2006, E. highlighting the role of parliaments and parliamentarians in promoting nuclear non‑proliferation and disarmament and, against this background, welcoming the efforts of the global Parliamentary Network on Nuclear Disarmament (PNND), 1. Reaffirms its position that the NPT is the cornerstone of the global nuclear non‑proliferation regime, the essential foundation for promoting cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and an important element in furthering the goal of achieving nuclear disarmament and general disarmament in accordance with Article VI of the Treaty; 2. Calls upon all States whose activities violate the non-proliferation regime to stop their unwise and irresponsible behaviour and to comply fully with their obligations under the NPT; reiterates its call on all States not part of the NPT to accede to that Treaty; 3. Urges both the Council and the Commission to participate actively in the discussions being held at the Vienna NPT PrepCom meeting and to make a coordinated, substantial and visible contribution to a positive outcome of the 2010 NPT Review Conference; 4. Invites both the Council and the Commission to clarify which steps they envisage undertaking to strengthen the Non-Proliferation Treaty and to pursue effective multilateralism, as set out in the December 2003 EU Strategy against the Proliferation of Materials and Weapons of Mass Destruction; 5. Affirms that, for multilateral efforts to be effective, they must be set within a well‑developed vision of achieving a nuclear-weapon-free world at the earliest possible date; 6. Urges the Presidency to produce regular progress reports in the years leading up to the 2010 Review Conference on the implementation of each of the 43 measures adopted in the EU Common Position of 25 April 2005 relating to the 2005 NPT Review Conference, as well as a list of new commitments that the Council hopes to achieve at the 2010 NPT Review Conference; 7. Urges the Presidency to promote at the PrepCom a number of disarmament initiatives, based on the ‘Statement of Principles and Objectives’ agreed upon at the end of the 1995 NPT Review Conference and the ‘13 Practical Steps’ agreed unanimously at the Year 2000 NPT Review Conference, which must improved upon and implemented in order to make progress (to avoid regress or standstill); 8. Urges the Presidency, in particular, to break the deadlock on establishing a verifiable Fissile Material Cut-Off Treaty, to speed up the signing and ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) by all countries, especially those required for it to enter into force, to advocate a full stop on all nuclear weapons testing pending the entry into force of the CTBT, and to prioritise the importance of lowering the risk of nuclear terrorism by developing and enforcing effective export and border controls on sensitive WMD-related materials, equipment and/or technologies; 9. Calls on the