proposal from the President, the Conference of Presidents shall name the members of, and may confer a mandate on, Parliament's delegation to COSAC. The delegation shall be headed by one of the Vice-Presidents responsible for implementation of relations with the national parliaments. 2. The other members of the delegation shall be chosen in the light of the subjects to be discussed at the COSAC meeting, taking due account of the overall political balance within Parliament. A report shall be submitted by the delegation after each meeting. Rule 125 Conference of Parliaments The Conference of Presidents shall designate members of Parliament's delegation to any convention, conference or similar body involving representatives of parliaments and confer a mandate upon it that conforms to any relevant Parliament resolutions. The delegation shall elect its chairman and, where appropriate, one or more vice-chairmen. TITLE VI SESSIONS CHAPTER 1 SESSIONS OF PARLIAMENT Rule 126 Parliamentary term, sessions, part-sessions, sittings 1. The parliamentary term shall run concurrently with the term of office of Members provided for in the Act of 20 September 1976. 2. The session shall be the annual period prescribed by the Act and the Treaties. 3. The part-session shall be the meeting of Parliament convened as a rule each month and subdivided into daily sittings. Sittings of Parliament held on the same day shall be deemed to be a single sitting. Rule 127 Convening of Parliament 1. Parliament shall meet, without requiring to be convened, on the second Tuesday in March each year and shall itself determine the duration of adjournments of the session. 2. Parliament shall, moreover, meet without requiring to be convened on the first Tuesday after expiry of an interval of one month from the end of the period referred to in Article 10(1) of the Act of 20 September 1976. 3. The Conference of Presidents, stating its reasons, may alter the duration of adjournments decided pursuant to paragraph 1 at least two weeks before the date previously fixed by Parliament for resuming the session; the date of resumption shall not, however, be postponed for more than two weeks. 4. Exceptionally, after consulting the Conference of Presidents, the President shall convene Parliament at the request of a majority of its component Members or at the request of the Commission or the Council. Exceptionally, with the approval of the Conference of Presidents, the President may convene Parliament in cases of urgency. Rule 128 Venue of sittings and meetings 1. Parliament shall hold its sittings and its committee meetings in accordance with the provisions of the Treaties. Proposals for additional part-sessions in Brussels and any amendments thereto will require only a majority of the votes cast. 2. Any committee may decide to ask that one or more meetings be held elsewhere. Its request, with the reasons therefor, shall be made to the President, who shall place it before the Bureau. If the matter is urgent, the President may take the decision himself. Should the request be rejected by the Bureau or the President the reasons for the rejection shall be stated. Rule 129 Attendance of