Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (7 May 2008) The Commission's financial support to the Mekong River Commission (MRC) concerns the participation to a small component of the MRC Flood Management and Mitigation Programme (FMMP), a multi-donor programme also funded by the United States, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan, Denmark and Asian Development Bank (ADB), to which the Commission has contributed through its Disaster Preparedness budget line (DIPECHO) under the Humanitarian Aid Regulation Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid, OJ L 163, 2.7.1996. . The main focus of the Commission's support is capacity building through training and workshops, and the development of flood preparedness plans for provincial, district and communal authorities in selected provinces of the Lower Mekong Basin in Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam and Thailand. The programme, implemented mainly in collaboration with the Asia Disaster Preparedness Centre (ADPC), which is the leading organisation in the region in terms of training and capacity building, is one of the few ‘regional’ projects supported under the DIPECHO budget line that otherwise focuses mainly on community-based disaster preparedness projects in disaster prone areas. It should be noted that the EC support to FMMP amounts to EUR 283 027, which represents barely 4 % of the total programme, and that mitigation works such as dams are not included in the Commission's contribution. In November 2007, a few days prior to the 12th Meeting of the Development Partners Consultative Group of MRC, civil society led by TERRA sent a letter to donor institutions including the Commission, expressing their concern on the impact of hydropower development along Mekong River on the environment and the livelihoods of local communities. The Commission, together with the Development Partners, has requested MRC to strengthen its capacity and tools for programme monitoring. The improved mechanisms for monitoring should in the first place respond to the urgent need to follow-up the implementation and the impact of MRC programmes more closely. At the meeting mentioned above, the Development Partners, including the Commission, issued a Group Statement addressing two main issues: (1) the need for organisational reform of MRC and (2) the river basin development and the role of MRC. On the latter issue the Development Partners called on the MRC to fully utilise its capacities, tools and mandate to assess hydropower development plans with a view to transboundary environmental, economic and social impact in the spirit of the 1995 Agreement. The Development Partners also expressed their concern that public and private stakeholders were not being consulted, and that the cumulative impact of dams on fisheries and food security were not being given adequate attention. The Development Partners further urged MRC to accelerate reforms and take immediate action regarding civil society consultations. Currently the EC is not funding MRC under the DCI Regulation Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 of the Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation, OJ L 378, 27.12.2006. . As regards possible future DCI funding to MRC, the EC would like to see progress made in terms