Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (8 August 2011) It is undeniable that many commodity markets have experienced increasing financialisation over the past years. The good functioning of commodity and commodity derivatives markets is a priority for the Commission on which it has been working for the past years and will continue working. Some degree of volatility is not unusual in markets, but major commodity markets, including energy, metals, minerals, as well as agriculture, have displayed elevated volatility and unexpectedly strong upward and downward movements of prices in recent years. Addressing excessive volatility of commodity prices, and in particular the impact of greater presence of financial investors, is one of the Commission's main priorities in this area. The first step to improve these markets, is to ensure that fundamental data and information on the trading behaviour of all market participants is transparent. In addition, supervisors will need to have the supervisory tools necessary to address issues related to the integrity and the stability of the markets, including being able to impose position limits when deemed necessary. Currently, all commodity derivatives fall under the scope of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Directive 2004/39/EC (OJ L 145, 30.4.2004). . This means that there are general rules in place which ensure that they are traded in an orderly and transparent way. All transactions in commodity derivatives which are admitted to trading on a regulated market need to be reported to competent authorities. Also, commodity derivatives which are admitted to trading on a regulated market fall under the scope of the Market Abuse Directive Directive 2003/6/EC (OJ L 96, 12.4.2003). , which prohibits insider dealing and market manipulation in all financial markets, including commodity derivatives markets. In its communication of February 2011 on commodity markets and raw materials, the Commission has called for further action to improve integrity and transparency on the markets Tackling the challenges in commodity markets and on raw Materials, February 2011, COM(2011)25 final. . There is a broad agreement that it is desirable to increase the integrity and transparency of commodity derivatives market. In line with G20 principles and conclusions, the Commission has launched a number of initiatives to do so: — It has adopted a proposal for a regulation on OTC derivatives trading COM(2010)484 final. , which aims to reduce systemic risk and improve transparency for regulators in all derivatives, including commodity derivatives. This proposal introduces the requirement for derivatives to be reported to trade repositories. Thereby, positions in these derivatives will become transparent to competent authorities; — The review of the Market Abuse Directive Directive 2003/6/EC (OJ L 96, 12.4.2003). in October 2011 will aim to clarify what trading in commodity markets constitutes abuse, and to ensure that all venues and transactions where abusive practices can occur are properly covered under pan-EU rules; — The review of the Packaged Retail Investment Products (PRIPS) A public consultation on PRIPS was launched on 26th November 2010,http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/finservices-retail/investment_products_en.htm#consultation will examine the need for additional rigour and enhanced quality of information when retail investors are offered structured commodity investment products;