follows from the discharge's function as formal closure of the accounts and from the meaning and purpose of Parliament's political power of scrutiny, as set out in the discharge procedure under Article 276 of the EC Treaty, that these loopholes should be closed by means of a discharge to be given to the persons or bodies who are responsible for the implementation of the budgets of the relevant organisations. Consequently, the practice developed by Parliament is not incompatible with Community law. In principle, this would also apply in relation to the Council. 22 November 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUDGETARY CONTROL for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs concerning the amendment of the Rules of Procedure to reflect the resolution on the reform of budgetary control procedures and institutions (Morgan Report) adopted on 13 December 2000 (2001/2040((REG))) Draftsman: Jan Mulder PROCEDURE The Committee on Budgetary Control appointed Jan Mulder draftsman at its meeting of 29 May 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 19 June, 9 July, 22 October and 21 November 2001. At the last meeting it adopted the following amendments by 11 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions. The following were present for the vote: Diemut R. Theato, chairman; Herbert Bösch, vice-chairman; Jan Mulder, draftsman; Jean-Louis Bourlanges (for Raffaele Costa), Paulo Casaca (for Helmut Kuhne), John Joseph McCartin (for Christopher Heaton-Harris), Eluned Morgan, Heide Rühle (for Bart Staes), Francisca Sauquillo Pérez del Arco (for Freddy Blak), Michel Ange Scarbonchi, Gabriele Stauner, Jeffrey William Titford and Michiel van Hulten. SHORT JUSTIFICATION ANNEX V (DISCHARGE PROCEDURE) ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED IN THE CHANGES TO THE RULES FOLLOWING PARLIAMENT’S RESOLUTION OF 13 DECEMBER 2000: 1. The possibility of refusing discharge and the voting majority for decisions on discharge. 2. The procedure for adoption in plenary and the admissibility of opposite amendments. 3. The deadlines required for a final decision on discharge. 4. The role of Parliament in the closing of accounts. Refusal of discharge and voting majorities Whilst a decision to refuse discharge should really be subject to a bigger majority than granting (given the political consequences) it creates a number of practical and legal difficulties. Parliament’s legal service, in opinion SJ-0159/01, advise that Article 276 can be interpreted to enable EP to refuse discharge, though the Treaty does not foresee a different voting majority (Article 198). Any attempt by Parliament to prescribe through its rules of procedure a different voting majority than the simple majority provided for in Article 198 would therefore be contrary to the Treaty. Legally the refusal of discharge has no direct consequences under the Treaty but clearly politically it does and might be followed by a motion for censure. In any case, after a decision to refuse discharge, the Commission should be invited to make a statement on its position. The procedure for adoption in plenary and the admissibility of opposite amendments The final consideration is whether the rejection of a recommendation for decision implies the contrary and if so which option that is since there exist 3 possibilities. For instance, if the Committee on