on Wednesday in a minute's silence, in the presence of Mr Bouteflika, as a mark of the House's deep respect for those who died. Plane crash in Turkey Parliament observed one minute's silence to mark the deaths of 62 members of the Spanish armed forces and 13 Ukrainian crew members in an air crash which took place last week (26th May) in northern Turkey, while they were heading back to Spain after four months of humanitarian tasks in Afghanistan. Burma - Arrest of San Suu Kyi Pat COX , on behalf of the House, called on the Burmese authorities to release opposition leader Aung San SUU KYI . Aung San Suu Kyi was taken into " protective custody " after clashes between members of her National League for Democracy (NLD) and government supporters left several people dead. Terrorist attack in Navarra, Spain Parliament observed one minute's silence in respect of Bonifacio Martín HERNANDO and Julián Envit LUNA , members of the Spanish Police, who died after the explosion of a car bomb in Sangüesa, Navarra. Possible extra plenary session in 2004 Pat COX announced that Parliament would take a vote on Wednesday at midday on adding an eleventh plenary session to the calendar for 2004 from 3 - 6 May. Changes to the agenda Parliament will now vote on resolutions on human rights issues in Burma and Zimbabwe instead of Nepal and Guinea Bisseau respectively. Strike causes travel problems Mary BANOTTI (EPP-ED, Dublin), Chair of Parliament's Quaestors, invited Members to contact her office in order to arrange travel arrangements to Strasbourg for Tuesday as French public sector workers were planning to strike. Zimbabwe clashes Glenys KINNOCK (PES, Wales) called on the Council to issue a strong political statement condemning Mr Mugabe's regime. Morgan TSVANGIRAI, leader of the opposition Movement for Democratic Change, was charged with contempt of court after being arrested at his home. Geoffrey VAN ORDEN (EPP-ED, Eastern) also called for the EU sanctions on the Mugabe regime to be strengthened. Cyprus Geoffrey VAN ORDEN (EPP-ED, Eastern) also called on the Council to ease economic sanctions on the Northern part of Cyprus and welcomed the easing of travel restrictions on the island. Northamptonshire schools Christopher HEATON-HARRIS (EPP-ED, East Midlands) raised the question of possible discrimination at Northamptonshire schools with regard to free bus passes. He said his constituents were considering petitioning the European Parliament. Office facilities and junk e-mails Neil MacCORMICK (Greens/EFA, Scotland) stated that he was unable to work effectively since the air-conditioning system in his office had broken down. He also asked if Parliament's IT services could do anything about the increasing amounts of junk email on the system. Elections in Northern Ireland Nuala AHERN (Greens/EFA, Leinster) regretted the fact that the elections in Northern Ireland had to be postponed and called on all the authorities concerned to ensure that the elections take place swiftly. The risk of returning to violence, she underlined, would increase the longer there is a political vacuum.