policy and the ECB were in contact once a fortnight. "The channels of communication exist. What is lacking is a bold implementation of the Lisbon programme, by which the Member States undertook to carry out structural reforms which should support growth" . To Ms Bordes he replied that the policy of price stability was in the interests of ordinary citizens, in particular the poorest, whose purchasing power it protected. Questioned by several Members on the difference in the situations of the United States and the European Union, it being pointed out that the US debt level and deficit were not harming growth, Mr Trichet explained this growth differential as having three causes: the more dynamic population growth in the United States, America's lead in technology and hence productivity, and the greater flexibility of all its markets, not only in goods and services but also in labour. This, for him, showed the need to implement the Lisbon commitments swiftly and not to imitate American budgetary policy. Lastly, regarding the functioning of Ecofin and the Euro Group, Mr Trichet stressed that the current institutional framework was not a real obstacle to a more coordinated economic policy, although there was room for improvement. The right kind of transparency Olle SCHMIDT (ELDR, S) focused on the question of transparency, which he said was not the ECB's strong point. He deplored the fact that Mr Trichet planned to continue with the same policy as his predecessor, saying "We want a different approach to the one taken by Mr Duisenberg" . Herman SCHMID (EUL/NGL, S) maintained that the information published by the Bank was selective and felt it was wrong that a member of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee could not have access to the ECB's budget - Mr Duisenberg having made this a matter of principle. Mr Trichet replied that the ECB was more transparent than any other central bank in the world. He did not believe all the minutes of meetings should be published and he contended that all EU citizens and economic operators were clearly informed about what the ECB understood by price stability. To those who felt that consensus served above all to mask differences of opinion, he explained that every member of the Governing Council could hold his views, that these views were exchanged openly and that they generally resulted in a "collegiate wisdom" . Werner LANGEN (EPP-ED, D) wished it to be known that other MEPs, such as himself, supported the ECB's current communication policy. 11.09.2003 Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Press enquiries: André Riche - tel. 32-2 28 40992, e-mail: ariche@europarl.eu.int Paula Fernandez-Hervas - tel. 32-2 28 42535, e-mail: econ-press@europarl.eu.int Iraqi people should regain sovereignty as soon as possible Political and economic power in Iraq should be transferred as soon as possible to the Iraqi people and its representatives, the Foreign Affairs Committee said on Wednesday. MEPs also advocated that Iraq's oil revenues be given in trust to the UN for the financing of the reconstruction of Iraq under a UN mandate. Furthermore, there should be a UN Office