and Energy appointed Christos Folias draftsman at its meeting of 8 October 2002. The committee considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 23 January, 28 January, 19 February and 25 March 2003. At the last meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Carlos Westendorp y Cabeza, chairman; Peter Michael Mombaur, vice-chairman, Yves Piétrasanta, vice-chairman and Jaime Valdivielso de Cué, vice-chairman; Christos Folias, draftsman; Sir Robert Atkins, María del Pilar Ayuso González (for Marjo Matikainen-Kallström), Luis Berenguer Fuster, Guido Bodrato, Giles Bryan Chichester, Nicholas Clegg, Dorette Corbey (for Massimo Carraro), Willy C.E.H. De Clercq, Marie-Hélène Descamps (for Dominique Vlasto), Harlem Désir, Concepció Ferrer, Francesco Fiori (for Alejo Vidal-Quadras Roca), Glyn Ford (for Myrsini Zorba), Cristina García-Orcoyen Tormo (for Konrad K. Schwaiger), Norbert Glante, Alfred Gomolka (for John Purvis), Michel Hansenne, Roger Helmer (for Bashir Khanbhai), Hans Karlsson, Werner Langen, Caroline Lucas, Eryl Margaret McNally, Erika Mann, Angelika Niebler, Seán Ó Neachtain, Reino Paasilinna, Paolo Pastorelli, Elly Plooij-van Gorsel, Samuli Pohjamo (for Colette Flesch), Bernhard Rapkay (for Rolf Linkohr), Imelda Mary Read, Paul Rübig, Esko Olavi Seppänen, Roseline Vachetta, W.G. van Velzen and Olga Zrihen Zaari. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy calls on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. Considers that the Commission’s proposal represents a necessary counterpart to the principles governing undertakings’ partnerships and their social role, i.e. corporate social responsibility; 2. Considers that the Commission’s proposal may be expected to have direct results regarding, specifically the increase of employment in the framework of the Lisbon objectives; notes that positive experiences of financial participation schemes can be found both inside and outside the European Union, although in the EU the use of such schemes is so far not prevalent in SMEs but mostly linked to larger companies; 3. Considers that the Commission’s assurance that the application of the financial participation system will contribute to increasing employment needs to be further researched and evaluated taking particular account of SMEs; 4. Believes that the Commission’s task is to achieve an increase in employment, productivity and competitiveness by laying down specific measures; 5. Points out that there are no specific references to publicising financial participation systems to undertakings with fewer than 200 employees, which comprise the overwhelming majority of undertakings in the EU, particularly in the southern countries; 6. Emphasises that SMEs are facing particular difficulties as regards the implementation of the system of employee participation and that the respective cost and the administrative problems may be considered prohibitive; 7. Calls on the Commission to lay down more detailed policies in order to avoid appearing to care only about a small number of workers, to carry out an impact assessment of its proposal with regard to SMEs and to submit it to Parliament; 8. Notes the Commission’s intention to carry out a series of studies on its proposal for the system of employee participation and calls on it to support research which will be concerned, inter