and obtain the best possible result." 6. Transposition: Commission can only view a 'snapshot' Mr. TERTAK, under questioning, admitted that when analysing the transposition of a directive " you can just get a snapshot of any given time which not automatically covers what will happen afterwards (…). We should not forget that above all institutions, especially those which do have supervisory powers, the National Parliaments are also exercising a certain supervision, and one would expect the democratic Parliament is sufficient to overview institutional acting in their boundaries, and whether they are fulfilling that law, since the directives are being transposed by their national laws. " In WE-Conf 11, the lack of resources for the Commission in the area of transposition (especially linguistic capabilities, as the implementing legislation received is not even translated) becomes apparent, reinforcing the impression that the Commission can only perform adequate monitoring of transposition if it has more means at its disposal. On the issue of resources, Commissioner McCREEVY alludes in H8 " to some of the difficulties in checking the transposition record and the problems that there are and the problems there have been in the past. Since the new Barroso Commission and since my tenure, better regulation has been the theme of the Barroso Commission. One of the things it means is better regulation coming from Europe . Therefore, logically, there should be more people available in the whole system to police the transposition of directives, the implementation, infringement proceedings, etc." 7. Transposition has elements of box-ticking Under questioning from Members, Mr. TERTAK admitted that, as regards the functioning of the single market aspects, it could only be that the creation, adoption and implementation of new life insurance directives was a box-ticking exercise " because we were creating something new, making it easier for the European companies to offer freedom of services, in particular, across frontiers. So we carried out the examination of implementation fairly soon after the deadline for implementation. So, almost by definition, there was no experience of the practical application of the new measures at that stage (...). So, there is an element of box-ticking but there is much more to it as well ". During the different debates, Members have raised the idea that transposition is currently a static and short-sighted exercise which needs to become more forward-looking, for example, by evaluating the quality of a piece of legislation across the first few years of its application and not just at the outset. Reference was made to this by Commissioner McCREEVY in H8: "It is our job to make sure that the rules are applied. So how can we best achieve our objective? With the resources at our disposal, we can hardly send out teams of officials looking for cases of incorrect application in our 25 – soon to be 27 – Member States. But what we can do, and are already doing, is to encourage the Member States’ regulators and supervisors to work more and more closely together. As their cooperation becomes increasingly close and regular, as they carry out peer reviews,