28 June 2001 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the European Council report and Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Patrick Cox on behalf of the ELDR Group on the European Council meeting of 15-16 June 2001 in Göteborg (Gothenburg) European Parliament resolution on the European Council meeting of 15-16 June 2001 in Göteborg (Gothenburg) The European Parliament, – having regard to its resolution of 13 June 2001 on the preparation of the Göteborg European Council, – having regard to its previous resolutions on European Council meetings, in particular the meetings in Lisbon and Stockholm, - having regard to its resolution of 31 May 2001 on 'environment policy and sustainable development: preparing for the Göteborg European Council', - having regard to its resolution of 31 May 2001 on the Nice Treaty and the future of the European Union, A. whereas the European Council in Göteborg confirmed the breakthroughs in the negotiations and agreed on the framework for the successful completion of the enlargement, B. whereas the candidate countries have made impressive efforts and progress in meeting the accession criteria though some of the remaining chapters are among the most difficult, C. whereas there was agreement on a strategy for sustainable development and on adding an environmental dimension to the Lisbon process for employment, economic reform and social cohesion, D. whereas the EU attaches as much importance to the free movement of people, capital and goods within and between the 15 Member States as it does to freedom of expression and association in a peaceful and orderly context, E. whereas certain fringe groups used the summit, and in particular the huge media presence, to engage in gratuitous violence, Enlargement 1. Welcomes the Summit's clarification of the enlargement timetable, which means that negotiations should be finished by the end of next year and that the most advanced candidate states should be able to take part in the next European Parliament elections as members; 2. Calls on the Council to intensify its efforts to prepare properly for enlargement by reviewing its own policies, notably in the field of agriculture and regional policy, no later than scheduled in the road map; 3. Is of the opinion that the accession states must maintain their current speed in implementation and enforcement of the acquis, not least in the field of judicial reform, good administrative structures and the situation of minorities; notes the intention to provide special assistance to Bulgaria and Romania in this respect; Sustainable development 4. Welcomes the 'sustainable development strategy' as agreed in Göteborg and the renewed commitment to continue progress on the Cardiff process of integrating environmental protection and sustainable development policy into all EU policies; regrets, however, that the sustainable strategy lacks clear targets and a precise timetable for implementation; 5. Supports also the approach taken in Göteborg to include the reform of EU agricultural and fisheries policies within the wider sustainable development strategy; notes also the intention to present action plans for tackling issues related to outbreaks of infectious diseases and resistance to antibiotics; 6. Is convinced