the Western Balkans will benefit from reduced competition for the available lending space. On the other hand, Turkey is foreseen to be transferred from the Mediterranean to the central and eastern European region (which will be renamed). The net effect for the Western Balkans should still be positive. As Turkey moves out of the Mediterranean EIB region, other countries there will also benefit. All this is included in the Commission proposal, to which this opinion relates, and in the conclusions of the ECOFIN Council of 25 November 2003, which indicate what decision the Council intends to take. So far, the chosen approach must be welcomed. A more problematic aspect is the way the eastern European neighbourhood is dealt with. Russia and all the other so called New Independent States born when the Soviet Union imploded are also kept outside the general lending mandate. A special lending mandate for Russia was created in 2001, but the amount is very small. The mandate is limited to investments to improve nuclear safety and protection of the environment, which is extremely important, given in particular the alarming situation at many nuclear sites in Russia. The current ceiling of the special lending mandate is € 100 million and will soon be reached. The Council intends to broaden the mandate to cover also the so called Western New Independent States (Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus) and to widen the scope to include certain infrastructure investement. € 500 million would be added, to cover all the objectives in the whole region. Although it is true that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) already plays a significant role in eastern Europe, this is hardly a sufficient motive for continuing to keep this essential part of the European neighbourhood outside the general lending mandate and limiting the special mandate as foreseen. The EBRD's loans are focused on the private sector. The need to support public sector investment is, however, very big and the EIB has very much experience from other countries of relevant lending. Moreover, Parliament has consistently advocated inclusion of the South Caucasus in the European Neighbourhood policy, and a development in that direction is now under way. Although the necessary conditions for extending loans to Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan may not be in place that soon, it would be reasonable to stop giving them a less favourable treatment than most other countries of the world. In the same way, there should not be any principle barrier to lending to Central Asian countries. The exclusion of the NIS is a relict of the policy towards the Soviet Union. Correcting this anomaly is long overdue. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy calls on the Committee on Budgets, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C ... / Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 RECITAL 4 A (new) (4a) Consideration should be given to including countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia in the lending mandate after the