applies or Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 applies . In any event, any insured person who requests an authorisation to receive a treatment appropriate to his/her condition in another Member State should always be granted this authorisation under the conditions provided for in Regulations (EEC) No 1408/71 and (EC) No 883/ 2004 when the treatment in question cannot be given within the time medically justifiable, taking into account the patient's current state of health and the probable course of the disease. The patient should not be deprived of the more beneficial rights guaranteed by those Regulations when the conditions are met. ( 29 ) The patient may choose which mechanism they prefer, but in any case, where the application of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 is more beneficial for the patient, the patient should not be deprived of the rights guaranteed by that Regulation. ( 30 ) The patient should, in any event, not derive a financial advantage from the healthcare provided or goods purchased in another Member State ▌ . The assumption of costs should therefore be limited only to the actual costs. Member States may decide to cover other related costs, such as therapeutic treatment, provided that the total cost does not exceed the amount payable in the Member States of affiliation. ( 31 ) This Directive does not aim either to create entitlement for reimbursement of treatment or of the cost of purchasing goods in another Member State, if such a treatment or such goods are not among the benefits provided for by the legislation of the patient's Member State of affiliation. Equally this Directive does not prevent the Member States from extending their benefits in kind scheme to healthcare and goods provided in another Member State according to its provisions. This Directive recognises that entitlement to treatment is not always determined nationally by Member States and that Member States may organise their own healthcare and social security systems in such a way as to provide for entitlement to treatment to be determined at a regional or local level . (32) If there are several methods available for treating a certain disease or injury, the patient should have the right to reimbursement for all methods of treatment that are sufficiently tried and tested by international medical science, even if they are not available in the patient's Member State of affiliation. ( 33 ) This Directive does not provide either for transfer of social security entitlements between Member States or other coordination of social security schemes. The sole objective of the provisions regarding prior authorisation and reimbursement of healthcare provided in another Member State is to enable freedom to provide healthcare for both patients and healthcare providers and to remove unjustified obstacles to that fundamental freedom within the patient's Member State of affiliation. Consequently this Directive fully respects the differences between national healthcare systems and the Member States' responsibilities for organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. ( 34 ) This Directive provides also for the right for a patient to receive any medicinal product or medical device authorised for