communication on simplifying and streamlining the existing acquis COM(2003) 71 final. . Here too, the aim is to make legislation more accessible and comprehensible to the general public. Outdated legislation is to be repealed and the volume of legislation will be reduced by an estimated 35 000 pages by means of a programme of consolidation and codification. In addition, the Commission proposes simplifying the substance and form of the existing legislation by rewriting it. It is intended to make legislation more flexible, efficient and proportionate. This Commission initiative is laudable, as it will do much to help simplify and render more accessible the European system as a whole. At the same time, one must always be concerned about the possibility that valuable elements of the Community acquis, which has been built up over a period of 50 years, may be lost. The European Convention has now reached consensus on a proposal for far-reaching simplification of decision-making in the European Union. At the present the Council alone has 27 different types of decision available to it. In future only six would remain: two types of legislative decision (laws and framework laws) and four types of non-legislative decision (European regulations, European decisions, recommendations and opinions). These proposals accord with the position adopted by the European Parliament on simplifying legislation (Bourlanges report Report on the typology of acts and the hierarchy of legislation in the European Union - Committee on Constitutional Affairs, rapporteur: Jean-Louis Bourlanges, A5-0425/2002 . ). In the Action Plan for improving legislative procedures of June 2002, the Commission had already tackled the issue of the selection of appropriate and proportionate instruments for Community actions in the context of accelerating the legislative procedure and making it more effective. In selecting instruments, however, democratic legitimacy must never be sacrificed to effectiveness. Framework laws may be the best solution in some cases, but the involvement of Parliament and the Council must always be sufficiently guaranteed. The democratic legitimacy of the European Union is based on the sharing of responsibility between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Member States as represented in the Council. In addition, it must never be forgotten in Europe that legislation is always made for the people of Europe and that in formulating legislation the interests of the citizen must always come first. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has previously proposed a 'citizens' criterion', by analogy with the 'SME criterion' introduced by Jacques Delors. This means an ex ante impact assessment to identify a proposed measure's social, ecological and economic impact on the everyday life of members of the public. Such an assessment may result in information to the public or compensatory measures Opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on the report from the Commission to the European Council: Better Lawmaking - A Shared Responsibility (1998) (( COM(1998) 715 - C5-0266/2000 - 1999/2197(COS)) and on the Commission report to the European Council: Better Lawmaking 1999 - (( COM(1999) 562 - C5-0279/1999 - 1999/2197(COS)). Draftsman: Max van den Berg, A5-0269/2000 .