Prospectuses and Pension Funds, and the International Accounting Standards Regulation; The Member States should ensure, as soon as possible, the implementation and enforceability of legislation already adopted by the Council (e.g. the Regulation preventing excessive charges on cross-border payments in the retail sector) as well as the setting of oriented policies specially addressed to the information and protection of financial consumers rights, which are sometimes made vulnerable by the fact that the consumers are not adequately informed on the last developments and new regulations that are offered for them by the single financial market; Justification Consumers rights and information is an important aspect, if the consumers are to gain from an end to fragmented markets in the financial services. Amendment 20 Recommendation 3.6, i. (encourage entrepreneurship) (i) create a business-friendly environment: (i) create a business-friendly environment: – improve and simplify the corporate tax system and the regulatory environment. Reduce administrative and legal barriers to entrepreneurship to the barest minimum, in particular through a reduction of the typical time and cost required for setting up a new company; – improve and simplify the corporate tax system and the regulatory environment. Reduce administrative and legal barriers to entrepreneurship to the barest minimum, in particular through a reduction of the typical time and cost required for setting up a new company. Facilitate the development of young entrepreneurs focusing on the creation of new companies that are not only facing a domestic market but also are keen on the advantages provided by the EU single market; Justification Especially young entrepreneurs hold the hope for a more "European" business outlook (Amendment 21 ) Recommendation 3.7 (Title) Foster the knowledge-based economy Foster the knowledge-based economy, including public and private investment Justification Sound public finances and contained levels of public debt are a platform for fiscal stability and growth. But stability alone does not by itself create sustainable growth. Moreover, the achievement of stability and growth needs new opportunities within public and private investment expenditure in a wider sense (e.g. infrastructure, research, data highways, education and training). Particular attention should be paid to possible synergies among national and Community-wide public and private investment efforts and to stimulating a European investment policy. Amendment 22 Recommendation 3.7, i., indent 2 (knowledge-based economy) – improve ties between universities and business leading to knowledge transfer and a better commercialisation of R&D results. - improve ties between universities and business leading to knowledge transfer and a better commercialisation of R&D results. Early adoption of innovations and technological development that, no matter whether or not they have been invented and produced under European platforms of R&D, must be encouraged for fostering the productivity of the European Economy. Justification Self-explanatory. Amendment 23 Recommendation 3.7, i., indent 3 (knowledge-based economy) - enhance collaboration on research and innovation across Europe. - enhance collaboration on research and innovation across Europe. Inter alia by the improvement of the efficiency of the financial systems (included the RCAP) dedicated to R&D. Justification It is well-recognized that the lack of investment is one of the paramount difference between the US and Europe. Amendment