the outcome of such deliberations to the European Parliament; 18. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, the government and parliament of the Valencia autonomous region, the Sindic of Greuges of the Valencia autonomous region, the Spanish Government and the petitioners. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT For over two years Parliament has been receiving a large number of petitions concerning what seems to be an extremely critical situation relating to the application of a land development law in the region of Valencia (LRAU). The number of those protesting directly through associations is thought to be in the order of 15 000. The subject of the complaints concerns the improper encroachment on their existing property by urban amenity and land development projects. The criticisms relate both to the substance - legal, economic and environmental legitimacy of such projects - and to the form - poor information, lack of transparency, excessively short deadlines for lodging challenges and proposals, too low a level of compensation. In addition, serious accusations have been made concerning compliance with tendering procedures, observance of environmental standards and, still worse, cases of corruption. It should be noted that both the legal and the political responsibility for this situation and for future projects rests with the following three bodies: 1. the Spanish Government as regards land law; 2. the autonomous community of Valencia as regards local legislation concerning planning rules; 3. the municipalities which, on the basis of both Spanish and regional legislation, implement the programmes which they deem legitimate. What is at issue in this matter is the LRAU law introduced in 1994 which has been challenged both in terms of its substance and, above all, in terms of its implementation. The Community of Valencia recognises improper practices triggered by this law and is preparing to revise it with a new law. In this connection, the Community of Valencia proposed to our committee during its visit that it would submit the new draft to the committee in order to incorporate into it any suggestions or amendments which we might make. The issue has also become highly politicised, which makes it even harder and trickier to decide what one can contribute. What role can there be for Europe in dealing with this problem given that both Parliament and the Commission are being contacted by a growing number of citizens, not only Spaniards but also from most of the other member countries of the European Union? Intervention by Europe can be based only on Community law and, in this particular case, on a possible infringement of the directive on public procurement (the Commission has started an investigation to this end). On the environmental issue, the subject is much more complex and difficult to act on since land development does not fall within the existing terms of reference of the Union * See Commission communication of 11 April 2004 COM(2004)6 * and the environment is not included among the areas of exclusive competence of the Union (see Articles 1-13 and 1-14). Lastly, on the issue of respect for human rights as such,