this conclusion is contained in this edited document. In July 2004, the FSA published an information document with advice for ELAS policyholders about various issues on its website (WE-FILE 29). In it the FSA confirmed its view that " generic claims against Equitable Life regarding its basis for allocating bonuses during the 1990s are unlikely to succeed " (WE-FILE 29 Page 8. ). Policyholders who believed they had claims against ELAS had the possibility either to seek redress from the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) or to pursue legal action against ELAS before the courts, provided that they were not covered by the Compromise Scheme or otherwise accepted an offer of compensation from the Society that ruled out legal action. 1. Non-judicial - The Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) a.) Introduction The committee received a memorandum prepared by the FOS (WE 27 Memorandum prepared by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the EU Committee of Inquiry into ELAS; 31 May 2006. ), which outlines the involvement of the FOS in complaints made against ELAS and sets out the statutory and regulatory scope of the FOS, its role, powers and responsibilities. Thus, the FOS was established pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). It brought together the six former regimes, including the Personal Investment Authority (PIA) Ombudsman Bureau, which had previously covered various sectors of UK financial services. Other rules made pursuant to the FSMA set out the jurisdiction of FOS and the procedure which it must adopt in considering complaints. The FOS is also subject to transitional provisions contained in both the FSMA and other UK Statutory Instruments, which cover the handling of partly completed complaints under former schemes and complaints about facts and omissions which occurred before the introduction of the FOS. In the case of Equitable, the relevant former ombudsman scheme is the Personal Investment Authority scheme operated by the PIA Ombudsman Bureau Ltd. This scheme required the ombudsman to observe any applicable enactment, rule of law or relevant judicial authority. The FOS must decide on complaints which were originally submitted to the PIA Ombudsman in accordance with the PIA criteria and thus observe any applicable statute or case law. By contrast, in the case of new complaints the FOS must adjudicate what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking account of any applicable statute or case law (see ES 3 Page 35. ). The FOS describes itself as an independent public body set up to resolve individual disputes between consumers and financial services firms informally and as an alternative to the courts. http://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/about/index.html Consumers may lodge complaints with the FOS free of charge. Eligible complainants are, in general, private individuals, small businesses and organisations in relation to complaints which arise out of a customer or potential customer relationship. The complainant is not required to live or be based in the United Kingdom. The FOS’s compulsory jurisdiction extends to any authorised firm against which a complaint is made where the complaint relates to an activity regulated under the FSMA and is subject to the compulsory