Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (4 July 2006) Research activity intended to modify the genetic heritage of human beings which could make such changes heritable Research relating to cancer treatment of the gonads can be financed. is not allowed under the sixth framework programme (FP6). Therefore there is no direct or indirect funding of projects on human germ line transmitted genetic enhancement by the Commission. As a result of the sequencing of the human genome and rapid advances in molecular genetics research, there is a massive expansion in the development of gene-based diagnostic and therapeutic technologies such as gene therapy. In this context, the frontier between the use of the results of this research for therapeutic or for enhancement purposes may be blurred in some cases. For those cases ethical considerations are crucial and the two following projects illustrate this. In the United States (US) Western Case, the project funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) aims to ‘identify the differences between genetic research performed for therapeutic purposes and research performed for enhancement purposes; determine the conditions under which it would be ethical to conduct genetic enhancement research using human subjects; determine whether existing rules meet the ethical conditions for performing genetic enhancement research, and if they do not, recommend changes to the existing rules’. Similar considerations lie behind an EU‑funded project, Enhance (Enhancing human capacities: ethics, regulation and European policy), funded under the FP6 area ‘Science and society’. This specific targeted research project is coordinated by the Centre for Ethics in Medicine, University of Bristol in the United Kingdom and also involved partners from the Netherlands, Sweden and Italy. The goal of the project is to reach a deeper understanding of the ethical and philosophical issues of the use of available technologies beyond the purpose of therapy. The project will document scientific advances in the fields of cognitive enhancement, ageing, mood enhancement, and physical performance and will then consider the corresponding ethical and social implications of potential future research in these areas. These results may impact on future regulatory needs in Europe. It should be noted that any proposal to the framework programmes where the objectives of the research may be unclear as regards any possible misuse of human genetic research has to go though a rigorous ethical review procedure before receiving any consideration for funding. Today, all the projects supported within the framework programmes involving human genetics research aim to improve human health. For the Honourable Member’s information, the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies, an independent, pluralist and multidisciplinary body which advises the Commission on ethical aspects of science and new technologies, has produced two opinions http://ec.europa.eu/comm/european_group_ethics/avis_old_en.htm. of relevance to human genetic enhancement: the ethical implications of gene therapy (Opinion No 4, 13 December 1994) and the ethical aspects arising from doping in sport (Opinion No 14, 11 November 1999).