provisions are implemented. The penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. (19) Since the objectives of this Directive, namely to protect human health and the environment from the possible risks associated with the use of pesticides, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, by reason of scale and effects of the action, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives. (20) This Directive respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. In particular, this seeks to promote the integration into Community policies of a high level of environmental protection in accordance with the principle of sustainable development as laid down in Article 37 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. (21) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. Decision as amended by Decision 2006/512/EC (OJ L 200, 22.7.2006, p. 11) . , HAVE ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE: Chapter I General Provisions Article 1 Subject matter This Directive establishes a framework for achieving a more sustainable use of pesticides by reducing the use of and the risks and impacts of pesticide use on human health and the environment in line with the precautionary principle and encouraging the promotion and adoption of non-chemical alternatives to pesticides . Article 2 Scope 1. This Directive shall apply to pesticides in the form of: a) plant protection products as defined in Regulation (EC) No […] [ concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market ] , for use in agricultural and non-agricultural contexts, b) biocidal products as defined in Directive 98/8/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 1998 concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market OJ L 123, 24.4.1998, p. 1. Directive as last amended by Directive 2007/47/EC (OJ L 247, 21.9.2007, p. 21). belonging to product types 14 to 19 as defined in Annex V thereto. 2. This Directive shall apply without prejudice to any other relevant Community legislation or to any national fiscal measures to encourage the use of less harmful pesticides . 3. Member States may provide subsidies or take fiscal measures to encourage the use of less harmful pesticides. This may include the introduction of a pesticides levy on all products except non-chemical products or low-risk plant protection products as defined in Article [50(1)] of Regulation (EC) No ... [concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market]. 4. The provisions of this Directive shall not prevent Member States from applying the precautionary principle in restricting or prohibiting the use of pesticides.