and credible international investigation of the events, including into credible allegations of excessive use of force by the police and of ill-treatment and torture of detainees made by independent trade unions and independent media sources; 2. Due to the significant retreats made by the government of Kazakhstan in the recent period in the fields of human rights, including prisoners´ rights, the rule of law, electoral democracy, democratic freedoms, media freedom and with the wide scale arrest of opposition activists, negotiations on a new agreement with Kazakhstan should not be reactivated until significant progress on these issues is made by the government of Kazakhstan; 3. Takes note of the declared willingness of the Kazakh government to address the legitimate requests of the oil workers, points out the record of the Kazakhstan government in making similar promises which it subsequently ignored, calls for an International Commission of Inquiry, including trade union and human rights activists that can contribute towards establishing the facts of the killings in Zhanaozen and Shetpe; 4. Is of the opinion that the justified demands of the oil-workers need to be met and that full compensation to all those who have been injured by the forces of the state and the families of those who have been killed needs to be guaranteed; 5. Condemns the ongoing crackdown on media and freedom of expression, and calls on the government of Kazakhstan to completely lift its control over the electronic and printed media; 6. Condemns the ongoing crackdown on opposition parties and organisations and their leaders and calls on the authorities to abide by the principles and commitments guaranteeing freedom of speech and freedom of assembly; 7. Calls for the immediate release of lawyer Natalia Sokolova and the dropping of all criminal investigations against those referred to above; 8. Welcomes the release of Evgeny Zhovtis, director of Kazakhstan International Bureau for Human Rights and the Rule of Law, and ‘Vremya’ journalist Tokhniyaz and calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners; 9. Urges the Kazakh authorities to allow international human rights observers and trade unionists, as well as local civil society organisations, representatives of genuine workers’ organisations and trade unions unfettered access to Western Kazakhstan and for them to engage in independent monitoring from the ground; 10. Calls on the Kazakh government to address in full all the shortfalls and deficiencies highlighted by the OSCE/ODIHR observation mission in its preliminary report on the 16 January elections; and to allow the establishment and registration of all parties and trade unions; 11. Calls on the EU External Action Service to raise these concerns with the Kazakh authorities and to find ways to monitor the situation in collaboration with international human rights and civil society groups and to report regularly to the European Parliament; 12. Takes the view that the current policy of engagement with the authoritarian governments of the region is failing and calls for a change in strategy in relations between the European Union and Kazakhstan so that all discussions on security and energy security should be suspended if there are no serious