in order to find a solution to the crisis. He stressed the importance of respecting Ukraine's territorial integrity. As to the way forward, Mr Nicolai stated there would have to be a legal and constitutional answer to the crisis that reflects the will of all the Ukrainian people. As he put it, not all the complaints about the second round of voting could be resolved and we need a new second round of elections in Ukraine; this may be the only way out. These elections must be carried out in a free and fair manner with a free media and free voting without any outside pressure. The EU, he said, did not support one candidate over another but stressed the importance of the territorial integrity of the country. " EU-Ukraine relations are crucial given the EU's neighbourhood policy, what is needed is a solution that is feasible for all Ukrainians ." The new Commissioner for External Relations, Benita FERRERO-WALDNER , told MEPs that the Commission had immediately expressed concern at the flouting of democratic principles in the Ukrainian election. The abuses revealed in the OSCE report showed that the official results did not represent the will of the electorate and could not be acceptable to the European Commission or the EU as a whole. She noted that the same line had been taken by the Ukrainian Parliament. Mrs Ferrero-Waldner stressed that the democratic decisions of Ukrainian voters must be respected: the EU's role was in taking action to help resolve the crisis. It was not, she said, a matter of taking sides or interfering in a foreign election, but of ensuring that democratic principles were respected. She also highlighted the importance of a peaceful solution which did not threaten Ukraine's territorial integrity. Ukraine, she said, had a clear prospect of good future relations with the EU under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement of 1998. This was part of the European Neighbourhood Policy, which aimed to have a ring of friends around the EU, with tailor-made cooperation with each country, leading to the possibility of partial participation in the internal market. Membership of the EU was not on the table today, she said, but no doors were being closed. The Commission would continue to work closely with Ukraine as the historic process of transformation unfolded. Jacek Emil SARYUSZ-WOLSKI (PL), for the EPP-ED group, stated that the events in Ukraine were unprecedented and were " a vibrant step on the road to democracy ". He said the events were similar to those that had taken place almost 15 years ago in a Gdansk shipyard which led to the Solidarity movement in Poland. Civil society was growing, and the whole of the EU, he said, stood together to condemn election fraud and manipulation. The EU's support was for democracy and not for one party. " Today we are all Ukrainians speaking the language of democracy and freedom". Ukraine was showing its political maturity and the EU could not stand idle neither could it recognise the results of the elections in the Ukraine. He appealed for