actions it intends to undertake within a period of three months. Amendment 50 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The communication referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall be notified to the organiser of the citizens' initiative as well as to the European Parliament and the Council and shall be made public. 2. The list of citizens' initiatives tabled, as well as the communication referred to in paragraph 1(b) , shall be notified to the organiser of the citizens' initiative as well as to the European Parliament and the Council and shall be made public. Justification In order to create a stronger duty for the Commission to give a follow up to citizens' initiatives. Amendment 51 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2a. The Commission shall deliver a public annual report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of citizens' initiatives, indicating inter alia the number of initiatives submitted, their admissibility and the follow-up given by the Commission to each initiative. Justification In order to create a stronger duty for the Commission to give a follow up to citizens' initiatives. Amendment 52 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2b. With regard to citizens' initiatives in respect of which one million statements of support have been collected, the European Parliament can at any time call on the Commission to explain the actions it intends to take or, as the case may be, the decision not to take any action, and the reasons for doing so. In exercising its powers the European Parliament can at any time hold hearings of the organisers or adopt a resolution. The organisers may also present a petition to the European Parliament on the subject, if the criteria for doing so are met. Justification In order to respond to citizens' expectation and avoid frustration, it is important that the European Parliament offers other options and take a debate to clarify the Commission decision. Amendment 53 Proposal for a regulation Article 13 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment b. non-conformity with the requirements for online collection systems; deleted Justification We support the idea of one single, central website operated by the Commission instead of websites set up by each initiator; like this data protection regulations will always be met. Amendment 54 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The Commission may adopt, by means of delegated acts in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18, amendments to the Annexes of this Regulation. The Commission may adopt, by means of delegated acts in accordance with Articles 16, 17 and 18, amendments to all the Annexes to this Regulation apart from Annexes II and III . Justification There are provisions in these two annexes that need to be examined by Parliament. These two annexes must be excluded therefore from the scope of delegated acts and comitology. Amendment 55 Proposal for