the industry . There are odd examples of that, but it tends to be because of the history of the individual rather than the institution ". The most extensive and comprehensive account of the criticism expressed by policyholders of the FOS's performance is contained in a report by Lord NEILL (WE 83). Although some of the points he raises are equivalent to what is referred to in previous paragraphs, his review is considered separately below. Opinion of Lord Neill (WE 83) Lord NEILL reviewed on behalf of EMAG " the nature of the service provided by the [FOS] to [ELAS] complainant policyholders ". In doing so he examined the correspondence relating to the cases of 31 individuals who lodged complaints to the FOS and " who told EMAG that they had been dissatisfied with the performance by the FOS ". The cases are documented in detail in Appendices 1-3 to his opinion (WE 83). A summary of the cases can be found in Paragraph 150 of the opinion (pages 54 to 72 of WE 83). He also considered in detail the FOS's decision to dismiss without consideration of their merits 50 claims characterised by the FOS as 'Penrose-related'. In determining the standards against which to assess the FOS's performance, Lord NEILL took account not only of the " statutory provisions " contained in the FSMA and " the rules made under the statute " but in addition also of " statements made by the FOS in its booklet 'your complaint and the ombudsman' and in FOS website communications as to the standards which it aims to meet (WE 86 Page 1. ). Thus, in summary, the Ombudsman was set up to (and/or aims to) resolve financial disputes " fairly, reasonably, quickly, informally, independently and impartially ". He is " not bound by strict rules of law " but rather " determines what award, if any, is in his opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case ". The Ombudsman will "[apply] the rules of natural justice in [his] decision making " and " give each side the opportunity to comment on the totality of the other side's case ". Furthermore, he will " do his best to ensure that there is a level playing field and that the superior wealth and resources of one side do not give rise to an inequality of arms ". Discretion vested in him will be " exercised fairly and not arbitrarily and capriciously ". A specific feature of the procedure is that complainants do not need a lawyer and are even advised by the FOS that if they do instruct one, they will generally be unable to obtain reimbursement of fees. The FOS will " ensure that complainants are not disadvantaged by the lack of legal advice " (see WE 86 Page 5. ). After reviewing the 31 cases in relation to the specific points mentioned above, Lord NEILL found that " nearly all complainants felt that in their dealings with the FOS they were arguing with an advocate for EL rather than