soon as possible to the Iraqi people and its representatives, the Foreign Affairs Committee said on Wednesday. MEPs also advocated that Iraq's oil revenues be given in trust to the UN for the financing of the reconstruction of Iraq under a UN mandate. Furthermore, there should be a UN Office of Inquiry into Human Rights Violations, gathering evidence on violations by the former Iraqi regime, as well as any violation of international conventions during and after the war. In addition, MEPs want the EU to appoint a special representative to Iraq. In a draft recommendation to be put to the vote by Parliament's plenary in two weeks' time, the Foreign Affairs Committee said the EU should take the initiative for a UN Security Council resolution on the transfer of sovereignty to the Iraqi people, through a political and economic transition process which would involve the election of a constituent assembly by the end of 2003. To this end an understanding with the US and possibly within NATO should be reached. At the same time, the international community should enforce internal security in Iraq, with a multinational force and a police force, mandated by the UN and benefiting also from the contribution and cooperation of NATO. The Iraqi military and police forces should be involved urgently in the security and defence of Iraq and should be given training. This could create the possibility of withdrawing foreign forces after democratic elections at all levels. In order to enable Iraq to exercise its rights in international organisations even during the transition phase, the present Interim Governing Council and the Provisional Government should be replaced as soon as possible by a new, internationally recognised interim government. In their call for a UN Office of Inquiry into Human Rights Violations, MEPs said this should be followed by the setting up of an ad hoc International Tribunal for Iraq which would judge the leadership of the former Iraqi regime. The draft recommendation calls for the Iraqi oil revenues to be transferred to the UN until an Iraqi administration takes over. International assistance to Iraq for reconstruction and development should be implemented by means of an International Trust Fund to be managed under a UN mandate. Finally, the Foreign Affairs Committee said that the EU should, if need be, reinforce its humanitarian and reconstruction aid to Iraq, but that this should not be to the detriment of other countries or regions receiving EU aid. Therefore, if necessary, it wants to use the so-called Flexibility Instrument, which makes it possible to increase the EU budget by up to €200million. 10.09.2003 Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy In the chair: Baroness Emma NICHOLSON (ELDR, UK) Press enquiries: Marjory van den Broeke - tel. (32-2) 28 44304 e-mail: foreign-press@europarl.eu.int EU solidarity fund: Portugal asks for € 48.5 million At a public hearing held by Parliament's Budgets Committee on Wednesday, a Portuguese state representative announced that his country was requesting assistance from the EU Solidarity Fund to the tune of €48.5 million as against the €31.7 million initially