act or omission in breach of his duties deriving from this Regulation, the articles of association of the SPE or a resolution of shareholders which causes loss or damage to the SPE. Where such breach has been committed by more than one director, all directors concerned shall be jointly and severally liable . 4. The directors shall be jointly and severally liable in respect of the company for any prejudice to the SPE deriving from a failure to fulfil the duties incumbent on them under this Regulation, the s t atute of the SPE or a resolution of shareholders. Such liability shall not extend to directors who are able to demonstrate their blamelessness and who made known their disagreement with the failure to fulfil duties . Justification The amendment restates clearly the principle of joint and several liability of the directors, while at the same time making it possible for that liability not to extend to anyone who can demonstrate their blamelessness or had made known their personal disagreement. Amendment 5 2 Proposal for a regulation Article 31 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. Without prejudice to the provisions of this Regulation, the liability of directors shall be governed by the applicable national law . 5. Directors shall pay compensation in particular where payments have been made in breach of Article 21 or own shares in the company have been acquired in breach of Article 23(2) . A requirement on the part of the directors to compensate the company's creditors shall not be waived on the grounds that they acted in accordance with a resolution of the shareholders . Justification The welcome aim of the Commission document is to create a legal form of undertaking that is as uniform as possible throughout the Community. Accordingly, it should avoid references to national law on points that are significant to companies. These points include the liability of directors. Amendment 5 3 Proposal for a regulation Article 31 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. Any right of action pursuant to this A rticle shall lapse within four years of when it arose . Justification Necessary addition in line with Amendment 33 (liability of directors). Amendment 5 4 Proposal for a regulation Article 33 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The SPE shall be represented in relation to third parties by one or more directors . Acts undertaken by the directors shall be binding on the SPE even if they are not within the objects of the SPE. 1. The SPE shall be represented in relation to third parties by one or more members of the executive management body . Acts undertaken by the members of the executive management body shall be binding on the SPE even if they are not within the objects of the SPE. 2. The articles of association of the SPE may provide that directors are to exercise jointly the general power of representation. Any other limitation of the powers of the directors, following from the articles of association, a resolution