from its date of application, Regulation (EC) No 883/2004, the Member State of affiliation shall reimburse the costs to the Member State of treatment or the insured person║ which would have been paid for by its statutory social security system had equally effective healthcare been provided in its territory. If a Member State of affiliation rejects the reimbursement of this treatment, that Member State shall have to give a medical justification for its decision. In any event, it is for the Member State of affiliation to determine the healthcare that is paid for regardless of where it is provided. Patients affected by rare diseases should have the right to access healthcare in another Member State and to receive reimbursement even if the treatment in question is not among the benefits provided for by the legislation of the Member State of affiliation. 2. The costs of healthcare provided in another Member State shall be reimbursed or paid directly by the Member State of affiliation in accordance with the provisions of this Directive up to the level of costs that would have been assumed in respect of the same medical condition under the same conditions as laid down in paragraph 1 in the Member State of affiliation, without exceeding the actual costs of healthcare received. Member States may decide to cover other related costs, such as therapeutic treatment and accommodation and travel costs. 3. The extra costs which persons with disabilities might incur when receiving healthcare in another Member State due to one or more disabilities shall be reimbursed by the Member State of affiliation in accordance with national legislation and on the condition that sufficient documentation setting out these costs exists. 4 . The Member State of affiliation may impose on a patient seeking healthcare provided in another Member State, the same conditions, criteria of eligibility and regulatory and administrative formalities , whether set at a local, national or regional level, for receiving healthcare and assumption of healthcare costs as it would impose if that healthcare was provided in its territory, in so far as they are neither discriminatory nor an obstacle to freedom of movement of patients and goods, such as pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and are known in advance. This may include a requirement that the insured person be assessed for the purposes of applying those conditions, criteria or formalities by a health professional or healthcare administrators providing services for the statutory social security system of the Member State of affiliation, where such an assessment would also be required for accessing health services in the Member State of affiliation . 5 . For the purposes of this Article, Member States shall have a transparent mechanism for the calculation of costs that are to be assumed by the statutory social security system or other statutory public system for healthcare provided in another Member State. This mechanism shall be based on objective, non-discriminatory criteria known in advance and the costs reimbursed in accordance with this mechanism shall be not less than what would have been assumed had that healthcare been provided in the