What you should know about ACTA Information society 2012-02-21 - 15:02 Map showing which countries have signed ACTA ACTA, a controversial agreement about counterfeiting and online copyright infringements, has been signed so far by 30 countries. In coming months Parliament will be able to decide its fate in the EU by either approving or rejecting it. But what is this all about? What does ACTA seek to achieve? Why has it provoked protests from groups across the world? How will the Parliament come to a decision and how will you be able to follow the process? Find out more in this briefing. What is ACTA about? The Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) is aimed at more effectively enforcing intellectual property rights on an international level. Many countries are worried that their economies suffer great damage due to counterfeiting and piracy. OECD estimated in 2005 that international trade in counterfeit and pirated products amounted to $200 billion, excluding digital products. What will be covered by it? Anything from counterfeit goods to copyright infringements on the internet. Who takes part in ACTA? ACTA was negotiated between the EU and its member states, the US, Australia, Canada, Japan, Mexico, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea and Switzerland. Once the agreement is in force, then any member of the World Trade Organisation can apply to join. Why is it controversial? Critics worry the agreement would favour the interests of large companies at the expense of citizens' rights and see its possible application in the online sphere as a threat to people's privacy and human rights. In addition the negotiations have been denounced for a perceived lack of transparency as civil society groups and developing countries have not been involved. Which countries have already signed it? In the EU it has already been signed by all member states except Cyprus, Estonia, Slovakia, Germany and the Netherlands. Outside the EU it has already been signed by Australia, Canada, Japan, Morocco, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea and the US. Why is the role of the European Parliament crucial? The Parliament has to give its consent before ACTA can enter into force in the EU. Since the Lisbon Treaty, the Parliament has the right to veto most of the international agreements concluded by the EU. What options are available to the European Parliament? The Parliament is not able to make any changes to it, being formally empowered to either approve or reject it. Since there is no legal deadline for a response, it is theoretically possible that the Parliament could let the matter pend indefinitely, an option which would in effect prevent ACTA entering into force in the EU, as its explicit consent is required for it to do so. The European Commission announced on 22 February 2012 that it will refer ACTA to the European Court of Justice for a ruling on the agreement. Parliament will wait for the Court's ruling before drawing any conclusions. However, in the meantime it will continue its own scrutiny of the agreement. How will the European Parliament come to a decision? The European Parliament