to the cost of collection and the administrative burden of responding. These findings shall be taken into account in the proposals for introducing new environmental economic account modules that the Commission may include in the report referred to in Article 11a. Article 5 Data collection 1. In accordance with the Annexes of this Regulation, Member States shall collect the necessary data for the observation of the ▌characteristics referred to in Article 3(2)(c) . 2. Member States shall collect the necessary data using a combination of the different sources specified below and applying the principle of administrative simplification: (a) surveys; (b) statistical estimation procedures in cases where some of the characteristics have not been observed for all of the units; (c) administrative sources. 3. Member States shall inform the Commission and shall provide details concerning the methods ▌and ▌sources used . Article 6 Transmission to the Commission (Eurostat) 1. Member States shall transmit to the Commission (Eurostat) the data set out in the Annexes, including the confidential data, within the time limits specified therein. 2. The data shall be transmitted in an appropriate technical format, which is to be laid down by the Commission by means of implementing acts. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 12(2). Article 7 Quality assessment 1. For the purposes of this Regulation, the quality criteria as referred to in Article 12(1) of Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 shall apply to the data to be transmitted. 2. Member States shall provide the Commission (Eurostat) with a report on the quality of the data transmitted. 3. In applying the quality criteria, referred to in paragraph 1, to the data covered by this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts with a view to defining the modalities, structure and periodicity of the quality reports . Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 12(2). 4. The Commission (Eurostat) shall assess the quality of the data transmitted and may, within one month of receipt of the data, request the Member State in question to submit additional information regarding the data or a revised dataset, as appropriate . Article 8 Derogations 1. The Commission may adopt implementing acts with a view to granting derogations to Member States during the transitional periods referred to in the Annexes ▌insofar as the national statistical systems require major adaptations. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 12(2). 2. For the purposes of obtaining a derogation under paragraph 1, the Member State concerned shall present a duly justified request to the Commission by … * OJ: please insert date - three months after the entry into force of this Regulation. . Article 9 Exercise of the delegation 1. The power to adopt ▌delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article. 1a. The delegation of power referred to in Article 3(3) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of 5 years from …