between products for indoor and outdoor use. The label shall provide at least the following information for the product in ready to use format: - the quantity of solvent per volume of product in grams/litre of organic solvent for any solvent pr e sent above 2 grams/litre, - a graded colour and/or numeric scaling based on existing best practice in the sector, - a clear warning about the potential direct and indirect effects on human health and the environment due to emissions of VOCs. Products shall be labelled to prevent cleaning of products into waterways and drains. Further indications required on the label shall be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12, with particular reference to existing best practice in the sector . The Commission shall produce guidelines so that any mandatory labelling requirements should complement and not undermine existing more stringent schemes in the European market. Justification Minimum requirements for the label should be decided by both Parliament and Council. Effective labelling already exists, and the EU label should build on this experience. The label should carry both absolute information (g/litre), and this information on existing best practice in the sector. Examples of scales can be the colour grading of the energy label or a numeric scale such as for example 0 < 2 < 5 < 10 < 50 < 100 < 250 < 500 < 750 g/L. The label should also carry a clear warning concerning the effects on human health and the environment. As the Decopaint study has shown, cleaning of all products, including waterborne products, into waterways and drains is not desirable and should be prevented. There have been large-scale investments to create a number of successful voluntary labelling schemes in the European decorative paints market. These have promoted the use of solvent free paints and provided access to impartial consumer information. They have been especially successful in Member States such as the UK. It is important to recognise and protect the value and integrity of these existing consumer labelling schemes As the Commission itself points out, the voluntary initiative by the sector in terms of technical innovation and making consumers aware of the range of products available, in particular by labelling, has been decisive in reducing VOC emissions. Initiatives of this kind and past experience should be taken into account when formulating labelling requirements. . Amendment 21 Article 5, paragraph 2 (a) (new) (2a) Member States shall take measures to promote and monitor the wise, controlled and responsible use of the products set out in Annex I. Justification Controlled and responsible use of products is important and Member States have a role to play in this respect. Amendment 22 Article 5 (a) (new) NEW Article 5 (a) (1) For the purpose of restoration and maintenance of buildings designated by National Authorities as being of particular historical value, Member States may licence the use of special paints, which do not meet the solvent limit values laid down in Annex II. (2) In the tri-annual reports according to Article 7 of the proposal, Member