through the facilities of any regulated market which has admitted the instrument in question to trading; i) through the offices of a third party; ii) through proprietary arrangements. Article 26 Post-trade disclosure by investment firms 1. Member States shall require investment firms which, either on own account or on behalf of clients, conclude transactions in shares admitted to trading on a regulated market outside the rules and systems of a regulated market or MTF, to make public the volume and price of those transactions and the time at which they were concluded. This information shall be made public as soon as available on a reasonable commercial basis, and in a manner which is easily accessible to other market participants. 2. The competent authority shall ensure that the information which is made public in accordance with paragraph 1 and the time-limits within which it is published comply with the requirements adopted pursuant to Article 43. Where the measures adopted pursuant to Article 43 provide for deferred reporting for certain categories of transaction in shares, this possibility shall apply mutatis mutandis to those transactions when undertaken outside the rules and systems of regulated markets or MTFs. 3. In order to ensure the transparent and orderly functioning of markets and the consistent application of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), implementing measures which: a) specify the means by which investment firms may comply with their obligations under paragraph 1 including the following possibilities: i) through the facilities of any regulated market which has admitted the instrument in question to trading; ii) through the offices of a third party; iii) through proprietary arrangements; b) clarify in which circumstances the obligation under paragraph 1 should apply neither to transactions involving the use of shares for collateral, lending or other purposes where the exchange of shares is determined by factors other than the current market valuation of the share nor to other transactions which contain little or no useful price information . Article 27 Pre-trade transparency requirements for MTFs 1. Member States shall require that, where appropriate given the size and nature of trading undertaken on an MTF outside the rules of a regulated market, investment firms operating an MTF make public current bid and offer prices which are advertised through their systems to all users in respect of shares admitted to trading on a regulated market. Member States shall provide that this information is to be made available to the public on a reasonable commercial basis, as close to real time as possible. 2. Competent authorities shall waive or modify the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 when the particular structure of the MTF, or its small size relative to the overall market in an instrument, make it appropriate to do so. Article 28 Post-trade transparency for MTFs 1. Member States shall require that investment firms operating an MTF make public the price, volume and time of the transactions executed under its rules and systems in respect of shares which are admitted to trading on a regulated