business: the society did not go insolvent." The FSA representative Mr. STRACHAN (H4) dismissed " any misperception that Equitable Life has in some sense 'collapsed' or 'failed' in solvency terms. This is not the case: at all times the company has remained solvent . At no time has Equitable defaulted on any contractual or guaranteed liability to its policyholders. In addition, in each of its regulatory returns it has reported that it is currently meeting its regulatory solvency margins." In fact, in November 2002, after Equitable Life had warned it may be unable to meet the FSA's required minimum capital margins, the FSA had rejected a call to liquidate Equitable Life on the grounds that policyholders would be worse off, without giving more specific arguments. In H8, the EL CEO Mr. THOMSON claimed that " the option for the Society to become insolvent was dealt with in the documentation for the Compromise Scheme in 2001, where it was obvious then, and remains so now, that liquidation would have produced a much less satisfactory outcome for policyholders" , but again without specifying any further the arguments supporting his position. Asked on this issue as an independent expert, Mr. Schneiter (Swiss insurance regulator) also stated that in his opinion " insolvency of an insurer should only be seen as a last resort measure" (H6). 1g) Double role of Equitable Life CEO and Appointed Actuary The generally accepted definition of 'prudential supervision' in the UK included "ensuring that the directors and major shareholders of a life office were fit and proper." see ES-1, page 9: "A life office had to notify the DTI any change of director, controller or manager and the DTI had the power to object the appointment of a new managing director, director or controller." Technically however, UK law did not formally exclude cumulating both roles. On this point, it has been established that Mr. Ranson had become Chief Executive of Equitable Life in 1991 without relinquishing his role of Appointed Actuary until his retirement in 1997. EMAG representatives and a large number of policyholders' complaints have referred to it, claiming that this fact, as well as the regulators' inaction and refusal to challenge Mr. Ranson's double role, had been prejudicial to their interests. A similar allegation was presented by Mr. CHASE GREY (WE9), who accused the FSA on this issue of gross negligence and failure in their regulatory duty. WE-CONF25 equally blamed UK Regulators for not intervening on this matter by using powers provided to them by Section 45 of ICA82. In particular, it stated that " alternative steps which the regulators could have taken under section 45 include, for example, requiring Equitable to strengthen its management, and/or requiring it to split the roles of Chief Executive and Appointed Actuary, both of which were occupied by Mr. Ranson in the early 1990s." Mr. NASSIM (WE7) confirms that " the regulators and GAD allowed successive chief executives/managing directors of ELAS also to hold the post of Appointed Actuary Mr. Headdon had also been both CEO and AA of Equitable Life for some