and pay grants and manage the specific subsidy agreements with the selected actions, involving all the activities required to launch and conclude grant procedures, including the signing of the agreements and if needed recovery of the grants paid (c) check whether the services performed by the selected actions have been implemented correctly (d) report to the Commission on how the services are performed, supply any information requested and notify without delay any substantial change in its procedure or systems and the reasons for change (e) take appropriate measures to prevent irregularities and fraud and if necessary bring prosecutions to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used without prejudice to the responsibilities of the European Commission in accordance with Regulations n°2988/95, n°2185/96 and n°1073/99. (f) shall forward to the Commission and more particularly to the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) without any delay any information relating to suspected and actual cases of fraud or corruption or any other illegal activity. Justification This change arises from the new Article 5 as amended by the rapporteur with a view to simplifying the administrative and financial management of this event Amendment 45 Annex, part II, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. Each NIB shall submit a single application for Community funding in response to the call for proposals. This grant application shall describe the national strategy and priorities for the European Year, the activities proposed for funding in the relevant Member State, as well as the organisations that shall be responsible for the implementation of each of the individual activities. The grant application shall be accompanied by a detailed budget setting out the total costs of the activities proposed and the amount and sources of co-funding. Eligible costs may include a provision for personnel and administration costs incurred by the NIB. Justification This change arises from the new Article 5 as amended by the rapporteur with a view to simplifying the administrative and financial management of this event. Amendment 46 Annex, part II, paragraph 3 3. The Court of Auditors and OLAF shall have the same rights as the Commission, especially as regards access. 3. The national strategy and priorities for the European Year shall be set out in line with the general objectives set out in Article 2 of the present Decision, and shall seek to ensure balanced treatment of all grounds of discrimination referred to in that Article. The Commission may carry out checks on the beneficiaries of contracts and grants from the national intermediary body. The Commission may decide to withdraw responsibility for the performance of the tasks assigned when the conditions imposing that the national intermediary body operate in such a way to ensure total compliance with the principle of sound financial management and with the legal and financial conditions for the delegation are no longer fulfilled. To that effect, the implementing measures and grant agreements arising from this Decision shall provide in particular for supervision and financial control by the Commission (or any representative authorised by it), audits by the Court of Auditors, and for on-the-spot checks carried out by OLAF or