ramifications of the deteriorating security situation and the danger of further destabilisation in the Caucasian region, 1. Regrets deeply the loss of life among the civilian population and military personnel and calls upon the Russian authorities to carry out the operations necessary to restore internal security and order on Dagestan territory, using proportionate force when restoring order, respecting the international principles of human rights and ensuring the safety of the civilian population of the villages occupied by the extremist armed forces; 2. Invites all parties involved to do everything to end the conflict and ensure the safe return of the large numbers of people who have been forced to flee their homes; 3. Insists that all international interest groups put an immediate end to their support for all illegal armed groups; 4. Condemns the violent attempts of the extremist forces to destabilise the Dagestan Republic of the Russian Federation and to impose a dictatorial regime on the peoples of the North Caucasus region; 5. Calls upon the authorities in Chechnya to refrain from giving any support to the extremist armed forces and to cooperate with the authorities of the Russian Federation in the establishment of security and stability in the region; 6. Calls upon the Russian authorities to engage in confidence-building measures on Chechen territory such as the implementation of economic reconstruction measures on the basis of the peace agreement between the Russian Federation and the authorities in Grozny; 7. Invites the OSCE to report on the implementation of the agreement between the Russian Federation and the Autonomous Republic of Chechnya to resolve the earlier conflict; 8. Invites the Council and the Member States to support, in collaboration with the OSCE, the Russian authorities’ efforts to restore the authority of the state, with due respect for the rule of law, and to increase to this end their financial support for the operations of the OSCE mission in Grozny, 9. Invites the OSCE to report to the Cooperation Council, the Commission and Parliament on the political and human rights situation in Dagestan and to make recommendations; 10. Calls upon the Council and the Commission to assist the Russian Federation in developing a programme for regional economic cooperation for its North Caucasian Republics; 11. Invites the Commission to assess the humanitarian situation in the Dagestan Republic and the neighbouring regions concerned and to present to Parliament, if it considers it necessary and viable, a proposal for short-term humanitarian aid drawing on its former experience in the region; 12. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Duma and Government of the Russian Federation, the authorities in Dagestan and Chechnya, the OSCE and the Secretary-General of the UN.