Foreign Affairs Joint meeting of Committee on Foreign Affairs and Committee on Development Meeting with Asha Rose MIGIRO, Deputy Secretary-General of the UN 18:00 19:30 Brussels, ASP 5G2 Other events Towards the 2009 European elections Conference "People and Parliament in the European Union in the context of the 2009 elections" Journalists have the opportunity to follow up this conference with experts which examine different aspects that have an impact on electoral participation. Does gender, age, class or disability have an impact on turn out? How do parties and media influence participation? These are some of the questions that will be discussed, aiming to find answers to the paradox that while the European Parliament powers increase, participation of citizens in the European elections decreases. Results of a special 2007 Eurobarometer on how citizens perceive the role, image and functioning of the European Parliament, will be presented. Journalists will also have the opportunity of posing questions. 09:30 17:30 Brussels, ASP 5G3 A seminar for journalists on “The role of the media in intercultural dialogue: a perspective from women.” A seminar for journalists on “The role of the media in intercultural dialogue: a perspective from women.” Parliament’s Press Service is holding a seminar for journalists on Wednesday, ahead of International Women’s Day on 8 March with the theme “The role of the media in intercultural dialogue: a perspective from women.” Participants include: Shada ISLAM - journalist and Senior Executive at the European Policy Centre (Pakistan/Belgium) - moderator Rodi KRATSA-TSAGAROPOULOU (EPP-ED, EL) - Vice-President of the EP Mechtild ROTHE (PES, DE) - Vice-President of the EP (TBC) Luisa MORGANTINI (GEUL/NGL, IT) - Vice-President of the EP Diana WALLIS (ADLE, UK) - Vice-President of the EP (TBC) Anna ZÁBORSKÁ (EPP-ED, SK) - President of the FEMM Committee Astrid LULLING (EPP-ED, LU) - Quaestor Mia DE VITS (PES, BE) - Quaestor (TBC) Monica FRASSONI (Greens/EFA, IT) - Co-president of the Green/EFA group Mahitab Abdel Raouf - journalist, Middle-East Press Agency (Egypt) The panel and journalists taking part will discuss a range of issues, including: Intercultural dialogue is a subjective concept and has many meanings: what could be its definition? Can intercultural dialogue be reduced Can intercultural dialogue be reduced to dialogue between religions? What are the other elements that constitute culture (language,...)? Is the media a brake or a motor for dialogue between cultures? How meaningful is it to speak of "female orientated" stories when dealing with information? What role can the EP play in intercultural dialogue? See the full programme of this event, and the conference organised by the Women’s Rights and Gender Equality Committee via the link below. 15:45 18:00 Brussels, PHS 7C50 2008-03-06 The President's diary The President's diary 09:00 - Speech ahead of International Women's Day - 8 March 2008 09:00 09:30 Brussels Press conferences Today's press conferences 11:00 - Central American Integration System (SICA) - Raimon OBIOLS I GERMÀ (PES, ES) with journalists from SICA 11:30 - Petition filed by "Open Forum Europe" in the EP on the Microsoft lock-in situation in the European Institutions - David HAMMERSTEIN (Greens/EFA, ES) and Eva LICHTENBERGER