a directive Article 5 - paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The offence notification shall contain a description of the relevant details of the offence concerned and the amount of the financial penalty that the holder is required to pay, the possibilities for the holder to contest the grounds for the offence notification and to appeal against a decision imposing a financial penalty, and the procedure to be followed in case of dispute or appeal. 2. The offence notification shall contain the subject of the notification, the name of the authority responsible for enforcing the sanctions and the purpose of the notification, the name of the competent authority responsible for applying this Directive, a description of the relevant details of the offence concerned and the amount of the financial penalty that the holder is required to pay, the date by which it must be paid, the possibilities for the holder to contest the grounds for the offence notification , a statement of her/his privileges against self-incrimination and of his/her right to appeal against a decision imposing a financial penalty, and the procedure to be followed in case of dispute or appeal. Justification It seems relevant for the addressee of the notification that he/she is clearly informed about the offence, the authority that has detected it and about the object of the notification. The principle of nemo tenetur se detegere is one of the fundamental values of the rule of law. It should be respected in any criminal/administrative proceeding, including this one. Amendment 6 Proposal for a directive Article 5 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2a. Any financial penalty imposed under this Directive shall be non-discriminatory in terms of nationality and shall be imposed under the law of the State of offence. Amendment 7 Proposal for a directive Article 5 - paragraph 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (4a) In any event privilege against self-incrimination shall be granted. The holder shall not be held liable if he/she was not driving and he/she is unable to indicate the identity of the driver. Justification The principle of nemo tenetur se detegere is one of the fundamental values of the rule of law. It should be respected in any criminal/administrative proceeding, including this one. Amendment 8 Proposal for a directive Article 5 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. No penalty shall be issued in respect of an offence committed before the date of entry into force of this Directive. Amendment 9 Proposal for a directive Annex – page 3 (Relevant details concerning the offence) - point b - subparagraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment speeding, drink-driving, non-use of seatbelt or child restraint system, failing to stop at a red traffic light. speeding, drink-driving, non-use of seatbelt or child restraint system, failing to stop at a red traffic light, moving traffic offences, major road safety offences. Justification If the scope of the directive is extended, the notice needs to reflect this change. Amendment 10 Proposal for a