that the EIB has adopted the Commission´s definition of SME´s and supports its attempts to put it into practice; 10. Strongly calls again upon the EIB, Court of Auditors and the Commission to amend the tripartite agreement following its expiry on 19 March 2003 to authorise the Court of Auditors to audit both the guarantee and the underlying transaction, in cases where the EIB provides loans; considers that further consideration should be given to improve the supervision of the EIB and is of the opinion that the European Parliament needs to be involved in this; calls on the parties to further amend the tripartite agreement so that the Court of Auditors has at least the same audit rights, with respect to the EIB as it has with respect to the ECB, namely the operational efficiency of the management of the EIB; 11. Suggests to the EIB to regularly publish an evaluation report on its financial activities, dealing separately with its direct activities, those undertaken by third parties (loans, risk capital, funds, etc.) and its derivative transactions; 12. Asks the EIB to inform the Parliament about the compliance with the recommendations in the Annual report of the Audit Committee and the recommendations made by the operations evaluation department in its sectoral reports; 13. Recommends that the EIB also publish information concerning failed projects if any, in order to learn from such failures; 14. Acknowledges the EIB´s commitment to give full access to information necessary for the audit by the Court of Auditors (if necessary including commercially confidential or market- sensitive information) and for scrutiny by OLAF and the Court of Justice; 15. Regrets that the information presented by the EIB on its web site appears in only three community languages; encourages the EIB to make the information presented on the web site available in more Community languages; 16. Urges the new European Parliament to organise a hearing of experts on the EIB annual report 2003 and 2004 and to formulate conclusions for the Lisbon process concerning the policies of the EIB; 17. Requests the EIB to annually provide the European Parliament and the public, together with the presentation of the EIB's Annual Report, with a written summary of the action undertaken in response to the issues raised in the previous annual report of the Parliament; 18. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the EIB. EXPOSICIÓN DE MOTIVOS Introducción El BEI, institución perteneciente a la Unión Europea (UE), fue creado en el año 1958 bajo los auspicios del Tratado de Roma, y se trata de un banco público con orientación política cuyos accionistas son los Estados Miembros (EM). Su misión consiste en contribuir a la integración y cohesión europea apoyando las inversiones de capital y préstamo en interés de la Unión, particularmente en el desarrollo de las regiones más atrasadas. Asimismo, el BEI es el accionista mayoritario del FEI, con un 61% de su capital, creado en 1994 y con un mandato para la promoción, creación y desarrollo de PYMEs en la UE y países candidatos a