Answer given by Ms Damanaki on behalf of the Commission (15 November 2011) With regard to the provisions of the Association Agreement between the EU Morocco on trade in fish and fishery products, the Commission would like to clarify that all EU sanitary standards are applicable in the context of Moroccan exports to the EU. It is also underlined that there are currently no problems in terms of tariff quota or calendar management in case of Moroccan exports of fish and fishery products to the EU as all mentioned goods benefit from a duty-free quota-free treatment upon importation to the EU market since 1999. In terms of environmental concerns on fish stocks, all imports from Morocco and all other EU trade partners are subject to the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1005/2008 of 29 September 2008 establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and that only legally caught fish can be imported. More generally, concerning EU standards, the EU cannot impose its own social and environmental standards on other countries. Nevertheless, the Commission supports initiatives aiming at improving social and environmental behaviours among third countries' partners. Following the same principle, the Commission also insists that EU trade partners adhere to the relevant international conventions and agreements in the maritime governance area. This approach is strongly pursued in the framework of free trade agreement negotiations between the EU and third countries. The Fisheries Partnership Agreement (FPA) with Morocco is not a trade agreement, and hence the question of compliance with European standards does not pose itself in the same sense. Instead, on the one hand, it is EU vessels fishing in Moroccan waters which must comply with these standards — to which they are directly obliged by relevant European law. On the other hand, in this as well as in other FPAs, the EU is (co-)funding the further development of third countries’ domestic fisheries policy, which should in the longer term help to raise the standards which are applicable to the Morocco’s own fishing fleet.