has had to open against some of them, your rapporteur hopes that the European Year of Equal Opportunities will mobilise the general public and thereby create a climate which brings pressure to bear on the Member States that are dragging their feet. Your rapporteur therefore suggests that the emphasis be placed on two main principles: - treat all forms of discrimination similarly and combat them in the same manner. In this way, all the forms of discrimination set out in Article 13 of the Treaty, and also in Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be addressed in all the Member States during the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All. It should be pointed out in this respect that Article 21 of the Charter, which is an integral part of the Constitutional Treaty (Part II, Title III, Article II-81), refers to several types of discrimination that do not appear in Article 13 of the EC Treaty, being worded as follows: ‘Any discrimination based on any ground such as sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or any other opinion, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation shall be prohibited.’ - draw attention to and provide information on the existing legislation to enable the citizens of Europe to make it their own. This will ensure that the European Year of Equal Opportunities continues to have an impact after 2007, in promoting better transposition and implementation of European legislation at a national level. In this respect, your rapporteur considers that the involvement of society as a whole in this European Year should be encouraged so that, as is the Commission’s own desire, the event reaches beyond traditional interest groups on equality issues. In practice, that entails putting in place a decentralised organisational system, not least at regional and urban area level, in order to bring this European Year closer to the public, and also strengthening NGO participation at every stage of the process, from preparation to implementation to evaluation. Moreover, the European Year must promote the activities of specialist NGOs in the fight against discrimination and enable dialogue to be enhanced between all the players concerned (NGOs, public authorities, European authorities, etc.). Furthermore, your rapporteur notes that, as the Commission indicates in its Green Paper on Equality and non-discrimination, only a minority of Member States make a direct link between measures to combat discrimination and those to combat social exclusion, when these are two related phenomenon. Besides this, the directives relating to racial equality and the field of employment, as well as the multi-annual programme for combating discrimination are part of a far broader Community aimed at promoting the integration and participation of disadvantaged groups See COM(2004) 379 final, p. 22. . Your rapporteur would therefore like a clear link between discrimination and exclusion to be established and highlighted as part of the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All, and for just as much emphasis to be placed on the importance of integration as on the benefits of