Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (17 June 2009) The state of European fisheries resources remains worrying. Despite increasing efforts, progress towards stock recovery since the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP) has been slow, with several stocks still exploited beyond sustainability. The Commission is trying to tackle this problem by implementing long term plans. Several such plans have been already implemented successfully, generating some signs of stock recovery. These plans have been developed for herring, mackerel, bluefin tuna, blue whiting, cod, plaice, sole, hake, haddock, saithe, Greenland halibut and Norway lobster. These correspond to 41 % of pelagic stocks (41 % of catches) and 29 % of demersal stocks (44 % of catches). The Commission will continue this work and will be proposing additional long-term plans. Specific plans will be proposed for western horse mackerel, Bay of Biscay anchovy, Celtic Sea herring, west of Scotland haddock and Baltic salmon. Furthermore on 22 April 2009 the Commission adopted a Green Paper COM(2009)163 final. on the future of the EU's Common Fisheries Policy, with the objective to launch a broad public consultation on how the CFP could be improved and the overfishing of stocks, could be avoided. Addressing the major causes of overexploitation, such as overcapacity, short term management objectives and poor compliance, will be a priority. The upcoming reform of the CFP should help bring about the necessary changes to make European fisheries sustainable. The Commission has in this respect stressed that the ecological sustainability of fisheries should be a basic premise for the future CFP and suggests that overfishing should be prevented by setting ‘maximum sustainable yield’ as the upper limit to fishing, in accordance with the agreement on the World Summit for Sustainable Development. The Commission considers it essential that stakeholders and citizens at large contribute with their ideas and proposals for the way forward in fisheries management within the framework of the ongoing consultation on the reform of the CFP. The consultation ends on 31 December 2009, http://ec.europa.eu/fisheries/reform/