must be clearly identifiable as an order and that free advertising cannot be mixed with advertising against payment. Yet, some business directories rely on misleading business practices. Most complaints received by the European have singled out the business directory known as the “European City Guide” which is based in Valencia, Spain but others, such as “Construct Data Verlag”, “Deutscher Adressdienst GmbH” and “NovaChannel” have also been mentioned. Some misleading business directories are also web-based. According to representatives of the European City Guide, some 6.5 million forms are issued this company alone every year. Objectives of this report The Petitions Committee and of the European Parliament received more than 400 petitions from small businesses across the European Union and even from some third countries, who claim to have fallen victims. Moreover, several Members of the European Parliament have written to the European Commission about these complaints and a number of written and oral questions were also tabled by MEPs. On its part, the European Parliament authorised this report in order to investigate this problem further and propose ways forward. Consequently, through this report, your rapporteur wants to: o Raise awareness on this issue so that fewer businesses fall victim to business scams; o Urge EU countries to tighten nationals laws and ensure that existing EU law on misleading advertising and unfair commercial practices is adequately enforced; o Urge the Commission to step up its monitoring of the implementation of EU law and to improve existing EU law where it is established that it is not adequate to stop these scams once and for all, and o Provide support and guidance for those who have already fallen victim. EU legislation At Community level, there are three EU laws which are most relevant. These are the: o Directive 2006/114/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning misleading and comparative advertising which replaced Directive 84/450/EEC OJ L 250, 19.9.1984, p. 17-20. as amended by Directive 97/55/EC OJ L 290 of 23.10.1997, p.18-23. ; o Directive 2005/29/EC OJ L 149 of 11.06.2005, p.22-39. of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market (the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive); o Regulation (EC) 2006/2004 OJ L 364, 9.12.2004, p.1-11. of the European Parliament and of the Council on co-operation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (the Regulation on consumer protection co-operation); Consultation prior to the drawing up of the report Prior to completing this report your rapporteur engaged in various consultation meetings, including with European Commissioner for Consumers Meglena Kuneva and with several MEPs who are interested in the issue because of several complaints that they received from their constituents. The rapporteur also had consultation meetings with business organisations representing businesses, especially small businesses in Europe, such as Eurochambres and UEAPME as well as the European Association of business Directories and of course, victims themselves. A public workshop was organised by the Petitions Committee on Thursday, 11 September, 2008 in the European Parliament entitled “Stop the Scam: Combating Misleading Business Directories”. The session provided a