Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (3 June 2010) In the framework of the application of the European rules concerning the imposition of operating bans or restrictions on air carriers within the EU Regulation (EC) N) 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2005 on the establishment of a Community list of air carriers subject to an operating ban within the Community and on informing air transport passengers of the identity of the operating air carrier, and repealing Article 9 of Directive 2004/36/EC, OJ L 344, 27.12.2005, p. 15. , the Commission has observed that in certain cases (e.g. Sudan, Indonesia) legislation has been passed to prevent air carriers licenced in that country from operating aircraft of more than a specific number of years of age. However, the Commission is not aware of any of the countries mentioned by the Honourable Member imposing any ‘age’ related requirements on aircraft operated by EU air carriers to serve destinations on their territories or of any requirements regarding the age of imported or leased aircraft applicable to the EU only. With regard to Indonesia, because of serious safety deficiencies and in particular in the area of resolution of safety concerns linked to accidents, all air carriers licenced in this country were included in the list of banned airlines in July 2007. Progressively, and only after having verified evidence that the civil aviation authority of Indonesia is capable of discharging correctly its international obligations as certifying and oversight authority on specific air carriers, the Commission was able to lift the ban on four Indonesian air carriers. The rest of Indonesian air carriers, including the air carrier which has suffered the accident on 13 April 2010 to which the Honourable Member refers, remains to this day banned from operating into the EU. To the knowledge of the Commission, no European air carrier is currently refused to operate to a specific country with any type of aircraft because of any specific age limit of the equipment. The Commission is actively promoting a close cooperation at international level to ensure that old aircraft are adequately surveilled to guarantee their continued airworthiness and the phasing out of old aircraft notably where aviation authorities have not the technical and administrative capability to ensure appropriate oversight.