Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (8 September 2008) The regulation on registered partnerships, introduced in the French Civil Code (Articles 515(1)-515(7)) by the ‘Pacte Civil de Solidarité’ (PACS) Act in 1999, does not acknowledge the right to conclude this type of partnership to those persons who are already married or tied by another form of union such as a registered partnership. In this case, couples who are already registered in another Member State cannot benefit from the advantages provided for PACS in relation to inheritance tax benefits. The PACS regime applies regardless of the sex or the nationality of the persons concerned. At present there is no European Union legislation providing a system of mutual recognition of civil partnerships. This is a topic to which consideration has been given by the European Union since the Vienna Action Plan OJ C 19, 23.1.1999. , in 1998, identified as a priority the adoption of a European instrument on matrimonial property regimes. Afterwards, the Programme of measures for implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of decisions in civil and commercial matters, adopted in 2000 OJ C 12, 15.1.2001. by the Council and the Commission, envisaged the drawing up of an instrument on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments relating to the property consequences of the separation of unmarried couples. The Commission is aware of the legal and practical difficulties that arise when an unmarried couple move to a Member State other than that in which its partnership is registered. The majority of these difficulties are linked to the great disparity of rules governing the property consequences of such forms of union. In July 2006, the Commission launched a Green Paper COM(2006)400 final. on conflicts of laws in matters concerning matrimonial property regimes, including the question of jurisdiction and mutual recognition, which could possibly lead to a proposal for a regulation on this matter.