Member State. The timely access of shareholders, creditors and employees to the transfer proposal and to the report of the management body should be ensured. (14) Competent national authorities should monitor the completion and legality of the transfer of the registered office of an SPE to another Member State. The timely access of shareholders, creditors and employees to the transfer proposal , based on a prior transfer plan, which should be tax neutral and explain the economic and legal grounds of the transfer proposal, and to the report of the management body should be ensured. Justification The decision to transfer the seat of the company should be taken primarily on economic and legal grounds – and not for opportunistic reasons or to avoid taxation – therefore a business transfer plan should be set out clearly and prior to the decision procedure. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – paragraph 1 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) ‘distribution’ means any financial benefit derived directly or indirectly from the SPE by a shareholder, in relation to the shares held by him, including any transfer of money or property, as well as the incurring of a debt; (b) ‘distribution’ means any financial benefit derived directly or indirectly from the SPE by a shareholder, in relation to the shares held by him, including any transfer of money or property, as well as the incurring of a debt , which is not balanced by a full claim for compensation or reimbursement ; Justification Clarification. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – point e a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ea) it shall have a cross-border dimension. A cross-border dimension exists where – the SPE has a corresponding business objective, and/or – purpose shall be to be materially active in more than one Member State, and/or for more than one third of its shares to be held by shareholders in one or more Member States. Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – point e b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (eb) its objectives shall be clearly stated and shall comprise the production of, or trade in, goods, or the provision of services. Justification The proposed amendment shall ensure that an SPE will be used for the material purposes of producing goods, trading in goods or rendering services according to the aim of advancing cross-border-activities of SMEs. The proposed amendment intends to prevent the formation of shelf companies and companies purely established for the purpose of regime shopping and circumvention of legal safeguards of the Member States. Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 4a Taxation scheme The Commission shall put forward, by 31 December 2010, a legislative proposal for a taxation scheme specific to SPEs, based on a common tax base and a system of consolidation of profit and losses. Justification The SPE regime should be viable, simple and consistent with the objectives and advantages of the Internal