{ "context": [ [ "Lookout Mountain Park", [ "Lookout Mountain Park is a Denver Mountain Park located around 12 mi west of downtown Denver overlooking Golden, Colorado.", " It consists of 65.7 acre of evergreen wilderness atop Lookout Mountain, named for its being a favored lookout point of the native Ute Indian tribe.", " Lookout Mountain Park is the burial site of the internationally famous western frontiersman William Frederick \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody, and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places." ] ], [ "Sugarloaf Mountain Park, California", [ "Sugarloaf Mountain Park is a census-designated place (CDP) in Tulare County, California.", " Sugarloaf Mountain Park sits at an elevation of 5991 ft .", " The 2010 United States census reported Sugarloaf Mountain Park was uninhabited." ] ], [ "Mountain Park (Holyoke, Massachusetts)", [ "Mountain Park, located on Mount Tom in Holyoke, Massachusetts, was originally built as a trolley park by the Holyoke Street Railway Company.", " Trolley parks were built just outside populated areas to encourage trolley usage on weekends.", " The Holyoke Street Railway company created two attractions, Mountain Park toward the base of Mount Tom, and a large house on the summit of the mountain." ] ], [ "Mount Tom Ski Area", [ "Mount Tom Ski Area was a ski resort in Holyoke, Massachusetts, in the Mount Tom Range in the western part of Massachusetts about 10 miles north of Springfield.", " It opened in 1962 and closed in 1998.", " Since its closing, all chair-lifts and snow making equipment had been either sold off or scrapped.", " Mt Tom was located off Rt. 5 on the North side of Holyoke Massachusetts and was just up the road from Mountain Park, a local amusement park.", " Both Mountain Park and Mt. Tom were owned by the O'Connell Construction Company.", " It was rumored that Mt. Tom was created so that the Construction company could keep seasonal workers working during the winter and keep them available for the summer construction season.", " Currently, the lodge/surrounding buildings of the ski area have been heavily vandalized are not structuarly sound for future use unless extensive renovation was to be done.", " A recent forest fire in late April 2014 burned roughly 27 acres of the ski area.", " None of the ski areas buildings caught fire.", " The fire mostly burned trees and loose brush that had grown in on the slopes.", " In late 2016, vandals and arsonists set fire to one of the smaller, old ski shacks, burning it to the ground." ] ], [ "Virginia v. Black", [ "Virginia v. Black, 538 U.S. 343 (2003) , is a First Amendment case decided in the Supreme Court of the United States.", " Three defendants were convicted in two separate cases of violating a Virginia statute against cross burning.", " In this case, the Court struck down that statute to the extent that it considered cross burning as \"prima facie\" evidence of intent to intimidate.", " Such a provision, the Court argued, blurs the distinction between proscribable \"threats of intimidation\" and