Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (24 September 2010) 1. It is the established practice of the Commission to contact the authorities of the Member State concerned to request information or seek solutions in order to improve the application of EC law. The Commission has recently agreed with a number of Member States to improve the speed and efficiency of the information exchange and problem solving through a pilot project, ‘EU Pilot’. There are currently 15 participating Member States in EU Pilot but eight other Member States have officially announced that they will join the system. The EU Pilot is designed to develop the ‘partnership approach’ between the Commission and the participating Member States and operates for the Member State to propose solutions to the issues raised by the Commission. With the participating Member States, EU Pilot is the first step to use and the Commission then has recourse to infringement proceedings where the solutions proposed by the Member State have proven unsatisfactory. 2 and 3. According to established case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, where there is a regulation on the common organisation of the market such as in the egg sector OJ L 163, 24.6.2008. , the Member States are under an obligation to refrain from taking any measures which might undermine or create exceptions to it. In addition, recourse to Article 36 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union OJ C 115, 9.5.2008. is no longer possible where Union directives provide, such as in the case at hand, for harmonisation of the measures necessary to achieve the specific objective. In such a case, the appropriate checks must be carried out and protective measures adopted within the framework outlined by the harmonising directive. In this regard, Directive 1999/74/EC Council Directive 1999/74/EC of 19 July 1999 laying down minimum standards for the protection of laying hens, OJ L 203, 3.8.1999. does not provide for a specific mechanism allowing a Member State to prevent the commercialisation onto their territory of eggs or egg products coming from another Member State that is not taking the necessary measures to prevent eggs from establishments non‑compliant with Directive 1999/74/EC from being placed on the market. However, it is open to the Member State to request the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health to examine the issue. Also under Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, a Member State which considers that another Member State has failed to fulfil an obligation under the Treaties may refer the issue to the Court of Justice of the European Union, after having brought the matter before the Commission. 4. The Commission is constantly discussing the issue with main stakeholders and competent authorities in the Member States. The Commission is planning to meet main stakeholders and competent authorities, in order to assess the state of play on the implementation of the directive, in January 2011.