Irving Berlin and the Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr." ] ], [ "Scott H. Biram", [ "Scott H. Biram aka The Dirty Old One Man Band (born April 4, 1974) is an American blues, punk, country, heavy metal musician, and record producer.", " He is primarily known as one of the prominent musicians of the One Man Band musical genre.", " He has appeared on national television shows such as NBC's The Tonight Show with Jay Leno and performed in prestigious and legendary venues such as Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York City, CBGB in New York City and The Fillmore West in San Francisco, California.", " His music has been featured in many American television shows and films.", " He has also appeared as himself in several films and documentaries.", " The Dirty Old One Man Band has continuously toured in The U.S.A., Canada, and Europe since 1998.", " He shares his birth date appropriately with blues legend Muddy Waters." ] ], [ "Martha Layne Collins", [ "Martha Layne Collins (née Hall; born December 7, 1936) is an American former businesswoman and politician from the U.S. state of Kentucky; she was elected as the state's 56th governor from 1983 to 1987, the first woman to hold the office and the only one to date.", " Prior to that, she served as the 48th Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky, under John Y. Brown, Jr. Her election made her the highest-ranking Democratic woman in the U.S.", " She was considered as a possible running mate for Democratic presidential nominee Walter Mondale in the 1984 presidential election, but Mondale chose Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro instead." ] ], [ "Joe E. Kernan", [ "Joseph Eugene \"Joe\" Kernan (born April 8, 1946) is an American businessman and former politician who served as the 48th Governor of Indiana from 2003 to 2005.", " A member of the Democratic Party, Kernan previously served as Mayor of South Bend, Indiana, and then as the 47th Lieutenant Governor of Indiana from 1997 to 2003.", " He became governor on September 13, 2003, upon the death of Governor Frank O'Bannon.", " He lost an election to serve a full term as governor to former Office of Management and Budget director Mitch Daniels on November 2, 2004.", " Kernan returned to South Bend and retired from politics." ] ], [ "W. Averell Harriman", [ "William Averell Harriman (November 15, 1891July 26, 1986) was an American Democratic politician, businessman, and diplomat.", " The son of railroad baron E. H. Harriman, he served as Secretary of Commerce under President Harry S. Truman and later as the 48th Governor of New York.", " He was a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination in 1952 and 1956, as well as a core member of the group of foreign policy elders known as \"The Wise Men\"." ] ], [ "University at Buffalo Law School", [ "Founded in 1887, the University at Buffalo School of Law (also known as UB Law, State University of New York at Buffalo Law School, or SUNY Buffalo Law School) is a