easily blamed; - many people do not know the difference between the Institutions, and they do not understand who takes the decisions that affect them. The five principles which are the basis for the proposals are: openness, participation, accountability, effectiveness and coherence. “Governance” means rules, processes and behaviour that affect the way in which powers are exercised at European level as regards the five principles just mentioned. The proposals for changes concern the following fields: better involvement, better policies, regulation and delivery, EU´s contribution to global governance and refocused policies and institutions. The Committee on women's rights and equal opportunities is concerned that the White Paper does not take any notion of equality of women and men or of gender mainstreaming, important principles stipulated in Article 2 and Article 3.2 respectively of the Treaty. A wide spectrum of questions arises: how can the way in which the Union uses the powers given by its citizens be reformed if the different perceptions, conditions and needs of both women and men are not taken into account? How can involvement, policies, regulation and delivery be improved if special focus is not addressed on the aspect of equality of women and men? How can EU´s contribution to global governance be strengthened, and its policies and objectives be clearer defined and understood if the principle of gender mainstreaming is not taken into consideration? CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: Openness and involvement 1. emphasises that efforts to deliver information at national and local level, adapted to local needs and concerns, should contain a gender mainstreaming approach, as women's and men's priorities, conditions and needs differ in many respects 2. emphasises the importance to give all EU citizens, both women and men, the possibility to take part in the web-based EUR-LEX dialogue, therefore calls on the Commission to include special actions directed to women, necessary to bring them to an equivalent IT level with men; Reaching out to citizens through regional and local democracy 3. calls on the Commission to include the area of equality of women and men as a suitable candidate for the 2002 pilot target-based, tripartite contract among Member States, regions and localities, and the Commission, in order to ensure an efficient implementation in Member states and regional or local levels; Involving civil society 4. calls on the Commission to incorporate women ´s rights groups and NGO's in the on-line data-base on European civil society organisations, which the Commission intends to establish before the end of this year; offers input from the responsible EP committee in preparing this data-base; More effective and transparent consultation at the heart of EU policy-shaping 5. welcomes actions to make consultation procedures more effective and transparent as interested parties will be more visible and will get increased possibilities to influence; requires that gender mainstreaming is incorporated in the code of conduct on minimum standards for consultation procedures, which the Commission intends to adopt before the