provisions concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and, to that end, they shall review them prior to the expiry of that period. Article 61 The Commission shall seek to ensure that any implementing measures adopted under this Directive are proportionate to the regulatory goals sought and shall take account of the impact of these measures (including cost impact) on the differing sizes, business activities and business structures of credit institutions authorised under Directive 2000/12/EC, investment firms and operators of regulated markets. Article 62 Reports and review 1. The committee referred to in Article 60(1) shall monitor and evaluate the impact of Article 25 - and of the exemptions provided for therein - in terms of market distortion, distortion of competition and creation of counterparty risk, and report to the Commission. On the basis of such reports, the Commission shall submit proposals for amendments to this Directive with a view to taking prompt remedial action. 2. Not later than ... * Four years after the date of entry into force of this Directive. the Commission shall, on the basis of public consultation and in the light of discussions with competent authorities, report to the European Parliament and Council on: a) the continued appropriateness of the obligation in Article 25 for investment firms to make public bids and offers; b) the possible extension of scope of the provisions of the Directive concerning pre- and post-trade transparency obligations to transactions in classes of financial instrument other than shares. On the basis of that report, the Commission may submit proposals for related amendments to this Directive. 3. Not later than ... ** Five years after the date of entry into force of this Directive. * , the Commission shall, on the basis of public consultations and in the light of discussions with competent authorities, report to the European Parliament and Council on: a) the continued appropriateness of the exemption under Article 2(1)(i) of this Directive for persons or undertakings whose main business is dealing on own account in commodities and/or the derivatives referred to in that point ; b) the content and form of proportionate requirements for the authorisation and supervision of such undertakings as investment firms within the meaning of this Directive; c) modifications to the rules laid down in Directive 93/6/EEC for those persons or undertakings which deal in commodities or the derivatives referred to in Article 2(1)(i) to ensure that those rules are proportionate, having regard to the nature of that business. On the basis of that report, the Commission may submit proposals for related amendments to this Directive. 4. Not later than ... * Five years after the date of entry into force of this Directive. , the Commission shall, on the basis of public consultations and in the light of discussions with the competent authorities, report to the European Parliament and Council on: a) the appropriateness of the criteria laid down in Article 3(1)(24) for classification as systematic internalisation; b) suitable requirements in relation to the practice of systematic internalisation. On the basis