sufficiently strong to give reasonable prospect of securing a conviction before a jury. The offence or offences need to be proved beyond reasonable doubt. The SFO review concluded that, respective of the evidence, the test would not be met. " Mr LAKE (H1) criticised that " bizarrely, the SFO took two years to decide that there was no case to investigate despite the quite evident misrepresentations on Equitable's annual statements to policyholders ". Mr BRAITWAITE (H1), however, underlined that " there is no insinuation from [EMAG] that the SFO did not look at the possibility that fraud had taken place " . In WE 31 Page 6. it is claimed, however, that English criminal law on complex financial frauds is in an unfortunate and ineffective state: " The SFO has great difficulty in obtaining convictions and its track record is very poor ". VI. Claims against ELAS for mis-selling Allegations of mis-selling, which are outlined in more detail in Part III of this report, were put forward to the committee by numerous policyholders orally and in writing. Customers were reportedly never informed (or misled) by Equitable about the risks associated with the fact that their funds were to be in a common pool with GAR-policies. In particular, those policyholders who had purchased their policies in the late 1990s, when the GAR liabilities became a material risk (in particular in the light of the ongoing Hyman case) complained that they were not properly informed and therefore claim that ELAS mis-sold policies to them. Policyholders also made other mis-selling allegations, i.e. that ELAS sales material claimed that the 'with-profits' fund was smoothing out fluctuations in earnings and asset values (which was not the case), and that ELAS aggressively pushed the 'churning' of existing ELAS policies towards newer investment policies which were highly profitable for ELAS (as they generated new business and commissions and required even smaller capital reserves). It is worthwhile noting that some of the allegations made by policyholders were confirmed by two former ELAS salesmen (see oral evidence given by Mr LLOYD (H5) and Mr POWER (WE-FILE 2)) who claimed that they themselves were misled by the Society. Mr LLOYD for instance, a salesman in the UK, told the committee the following: " I feel that we were all let down by the board of Equitable Life. In my opinion, it had the duty to tell the policyholders and the sales staff about the risks associated with adding further sums to the existing with-profits fund and I believe that those risks should have been known by 1998, and possibly sooner. ... With hindsight, I believe I was misled about the risks associated with the with-profits fund. ... Obviously I did not at the time, but looking back now, I believe that something should have been done to prevent further clients – other than those already in it – committing money to a fund that had liabilities that were beyond its means. In hindsight, we were selling the with-profits fund in a way that, from what we now know, was reckless both for