WRITTEN QUESTION E-3841/05 by Richard Seeber (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (21 October 2005) Subject: Damage to health caused by traffic-related air pollution in especially polluted areas Traffic is not only a source of accidents leading to injury and death, but also has a damaging impact on human health through emissions of pollutants. The air pollution resulting from exhaust fumes, vaporisation (diffuse emissions of volatile organic chemicals (VOCs)) and dust particles (caused by tyre wear, stirring up of dust) leads to damage to the respiratory tract, impairs lung function and increases the risk of cancer, allergies and strokes. According to a current Commission study (carried out in conjunction with the WHO), in Austria alone more than 4600 people die ‘prematurely’ every year from the effects of traffic‑related air pollution. Across the whole of the EU the figure is 288000 people. According to WHO research, in 2000 the average life expectancy of people in the EU was shortened by 8.2 months as a result of the presence of fine particles in the air. As people living in transit regions are exposed to particularly high levels of traffic‑related air pollution, it can only be assumed that the mortality rate caused by pollution is even higher in these areas than in the rest of the Community. As the WHO study ‘Effects of air pollution on children’s health and development’ shows, air pollution has a disproportionate effect on the health of older people, the chronically ill and children. According to the WHO, more than 20000 cases of bronchitis and 15000 cases of asthma in children under 15 years of age are attributable to traffic‑related air pollution. 1. Does the Commission have statistics on the impact of traffic‑related air pollution on the health, and mortality rate, of people living in especially polluted areas, and in particular on the health of groups particularly at risk, such as children, the chronically ill and older people? 2. What measures does the Commission intend to take in order to reduce the damage caused by air pollution to the health of people living in especially polluted areas? 3. When will the Commission be presenting proposals on how the true costs of transport, including external costs, may be charged to modes of transport?