Interest-bearing deposit 1. If the Council adopts a decision establishing that a Member State failed to take action in response to the Council recommendation referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 6(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1466/97, the Commission shall, within 20 days of adoption of the Council recommendation, recommend to the Council to impose the lodging of an interest bearing deposit ▌. The decision shall be deemed to be adopted by the Council unless it decides by qualified majority to reject the recommendation within ten days of the Commission adopting it. The Council may amend the Commission recommendation acting by a qualified majority . 2. The interest-bearing deposit to be recommended by the Commission shall amount to 0,2% of the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Member State concerned in the preceding year. ▌ 4. By derogation ▌the Commission may , following a reasoned request by the Member State concerned addressed to the Commission within 10 days of adoption of the Council recommendation referred to in paragraph 1, recommend to reduce the amount of the interest-bearing deposit or to cancel it. 4a. The deposit shall bear the interest rate reflecting the Commission credit risk and the relevant investment period. 5. If the situation giving rise to the recommendation referred to in paragraph 1 no longer exists , the Council, on the basis of a recommendation from the Commission, shall decide that the deposit and the interest accrued thereon are returned to the Member State concerned. The Council may amend the Commission recommendation acting by a qualified majority . Chapter III Sanctions in the corrective part of the Stability and Growth Pact Article 4 Non-interest-bearing deposit 1. If the Council decides in accordance with Article 126(6) of the Treaty that an excessive deficit exists in a Member State which has an interest bearing deposit lodged with the Commission in accordance with Article 3(1), or where particularly serious non compliance with the legal budgetary policy obligations laid down in the Stability and Growth Pact have been identified, the Commission shall, within 20 days of adoption of the Council decision, recommend to the Council to impose the lodging of a non-interest-bearing deposit ▌. The decision shall be deemed adopted by the Council unless it decides by qualified majority to reject the recommendation within 10 days of the Commission adopting it. The Council may amend the Commission recommendation acting by a qualified majority . 2. The non-interest-bearing deposit to be recommended by the Commission shall amount to 0.2% of the GDP of the Member State concerned in the preceding year. ▌ 4. By derogation ▌, the Commission may, on grounds of exceptional economic circumstances or following a reasoned request by the Member State concerned addressed to the Commission within 10 days of adoption of the Council decision in accordance with Article 126(6) of the Treaty, recommend to reduce the amount of the non-interest-bearing deposit or to cancel it. 4a. The deposit shall be lodged with the Commission. If the Member State has an interest-bearing deposit lodged with the Commission in accordance with Article 3,