{ "context": [ [ "Charlie Ward", [ "Charlie Ward Jr. (born October 12, 1970) is a retired American professional NBA basketball player, college football Heisman Trophy winner, Davey O'Brien Award winner and a Major League Baseball draftee.", " Despite his NCAA football success, Ward was one of the very few players who won a Heisman trophy but was not drafted in the NFL draft.", " He won the College Football National Championship with the Florida State University Seminoles.", " Ward played several years with the New York Knicks and started in the NBA Finals.", " He was inducted in the College Football Hall of Fame in 2006.", " An avid tennis player, Ward also displayed his skills at the Arthur Ashe Tennis Tournament in 1994." ] ], [ "Bear Bryant", [ "Paul William \"Bear\" Bryant (September 11, 1913 – January 26, 1983) was an American college football player and coach.", " He was best known as the longtime head coach of the University of Alabama football team.", " During his 25-year tenure as Alabama's head coach, he amassed six national championships and thirteen conference championships.", " Upon his retirement in 1982, he held the record for most wins as head coach in collegiate football history with 323 wins.", " The Paul W. Bryant Museum, Paul W. Bryant Hall, Paul W. Bryant Drive, and Bryant–Denny Stadium are all named in his honor at the University of Alabama.", " He was also known for his trademark black and white houndstooth hat, deep voice, casually leaning up against the goal post during pre-game warmups, and holding his rolled-up game plan while on the sidelines.", " Before arriving at Alabama, Bryant was head football coach at the University of Maryland, the University of Kentucky, and Texas A&M University." ] ], [ "2012 Texas A&amp;M vs. Alabama football game", [ "The 2012 Texas A&M vs. Alabama football game was a college football game between the Texas A&M Aggies and Alabama Crimson Tide at Bryant–Denny Stadium in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.", " This was the game where Texas A&M freshman quarterback and eventual Heisman Trophy winner Johnny Manziel completed 24 of 31 passes, had 253 passing yards, and two passing touchdowns with 92 rushing yards to help No. 15 Texas A&M upset No. 1 Alabama 29–24, which led him to being the first freshman to win the Heisman Trophy." ] ], [ "Heisman curse", [ "The Heisman curse is a term coined to reference a two-part assertion of a negative future for the winning player of the Heisman Trophy.", " The \"curse\" supposes that any college football player who wins the Heisman plays on a team that will likely lose its subsequent bowl game.", " The trend of post-award failure has garnered the attention of the mainstream media.", " Talk of a curse in relation to bowl results was particularly prevalent from 2003 to 2008, when six Heisman Trophy winners compiled a cumulative 1–5 bowl game record, and five of those six led number one ranked teams into the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) National Championship Game as favorites (Heisman Trophy