substances within the scope of control. Psychotropic substances are today classified by the Vienna Convention (art. 1) into four schedules: - Schedule I : it includes dangerous drugs creating a serious risk to public health, and whose therapeutic value is doubtful or nil. It includes synthetic hallucinogenics (LSD 25, DMT) and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC). - Schedule II : it includes stimulants of the amphetamine type, of limited therapeutic value, as well as some analgesics such as phencyclidine, which is of no therapeutic value to man. - Schedule III : it includes barbiturate products with fast or average effects, which have been the object of serious abuse even though useful therapeutically. - Schedule IV : it includes hypnotics, tranquilizers (benzodiazepine) and analgesics, which engender an appreciable dependence, but are mainly, used in therapy. This classification repeats the criteria of therapeutic value, but in fact is more or less based on whether a substance belongs to one of the four pharmacological groups: hallucinogens (Schedule I), amphetamines (Schedule II), barbiturates (Schedule III), tranquilizers (Schedule IV). It is striking to note that a comparison of the classifications of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances does not in the least coincide with the health and social danger posed by the products concerned. Substances that only engender a slight dependence are classified amongst narcotic drugs whereas highly addictive substances are classified amongst psychotropic substances. Therefore, one is surprised to learn that in international law, LSD, mescaline, psilocine and other synthetic hallucinogenics DMT, STP... are not narcotic drugs, but psychotropic substances. Better yet, whereas the cannabis plant is classified amongst the most dangerous narcotic drugs, its principal element, tetrahydrocannabinol or THC is only a psychotropic substance. It is difficult to explain how a plant containing at the most 3% of a principal element is dealt with more severely than the pure substance at 100%. Therefore, it would be useful to attempt to reorganize these schedules by using the reclassification procedure for a certain number of narcotic substances. This enables one to transfer them from one schedule to another, to reclassify them as a psychotropic substance, or by purely and simply deleting them from the list of internationally controlled substances. The rules concerning proposing changes to the schedules of the 1961 Convention are provided for in Article 3 which defines the conditions for modifying the scope of international control. The United States have already once followed this path, when it proposed to reclassify dextropropoxyphene. Apart from the above-mentioned techniques (reclassification and amendment), the Conventions themselves also contain provisions for reservations (which is only possible at the time of signature, ratification or accession) and denunciation, which can be used at any time. PROPOSAL FOR RECOMMENDATION B5‑0541/2002 Recommendation on the reform of the conventions on drugs déposée conformement à l'article 49, paragraphe 1 du reglèment par Marco Cappato et autres 108 députés The European Parliament , A. whereas international policies on drugs derive from the UN Conventions of 1961, 1971 and 1988 and whereas these Conventions prohibit the production, trafficking, selling and consumption for ends other than medical or scientific ones of a whole