single authority for financial prudential supervision in Europe. MEPs want legislation to enhance individual responsibility of board members and the inclusion of independent directors on a management board in order to guarantee better auditing. Parliament also wants more involvement of employees and calls for the presence of representatives of employees on management or supervisory boards in order to enable the employees to safeguard their interests in connection with decisions directly impacting firms' future. Other suggestions include legislation to improve companies' auditing by forcing them to rotate their audit firm or the audit partner in charge of their accounts, and to prohibit auditors from providing non-audit services to audit clients. In any case, MEPs underline that the response taken to the current situation should be proportionate, balanced and sensible, and take into account the needs of participants in the financial markets. A proper, full assessment should be carried out on what happened at Parmalat. As for the measures taken by the Italian government after the Parmalat affair, Parliament wants the Commission to decide as soon as possible whether they are compatible with EC law. At the plenary debate on 11 February, Frits BOLKENSTEIN , the Commissioner for Internal Market, Taxation and Customs Union issues, assured Parliament of the commitment of the Commission to develop proposals to bring order to the current situation on the financial market. Later this year, the Commission will present legislation in the following areas: the role of non-executive directors on the boards, directors' responsibility for company accounts, and offshore structures and money laundering. Parmalat, a major player in European food business and an employer of tens of thousands of people world-wide, was declared officially insolvent by an Italian court after a big hole was revealed in its accounts. The estimate of the gross debt accumulated by Parmalat is €14 billion, including innumerable off-balance sheet private payments. Press enquiries: Elina Viilup (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74794 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 31056 e-mail : econ-press@europarl.eu.int Industry Defend the European steel industry in international bodies, say MEPs Motions for resolutions - Crisis in the steel sector Doc.: B5-0076/2004 , B5-0089/2004 , B5-0090/2004 , B5-0091/2004 , B5-0092/2004 , B5-0093/2004 Debate: 10.02.2004 Vote: 11.02.2004 Vote Parliament issued a strong call to the Commission to take action in international organisations to guarantee conditions of fair competition in the world steel market, with a view to defending the sector at European level, especially to help in preserving jobs. MEPs adopted a joint resolution, following a debate with Commissioner Anna DIAMANTOPOULOU on Tuesday 10 February, which took place in the light of the closure of the AST Thyssen Krupp plant at Terni in Italy. MEPs urge the Commission to act firmly within the WTO and OECD to guarantee that there is a level playing field in the global steel market, while welcoming the efforts made by Commissioner Pascal LAMY in the recent steel dispute with the USA. During the debate, Commissioner Diamantopoulou asserted that the EU wanted to conclude an agreement on subsidies to the sector, taking account of the fact that there are countries outside the WTO which