for harmonised standards for the latter; 14. Notes the importance of consultation and cooperation with respect to security measures but warns against excessive or uncoordinated measures that are not based on a proper risk assessment; 15. Renews its call on the Commission and the US to review the efficiency of the additional security measures adopted since 2001 so as to eliminate overlapping and weak links in the security chain; 16. Advocates the concept of ‘one-stop security’, rather than rechecking passengers and luggage at every transfer; Environment 17. Recognises that the aviation sector has several negative environmental effects, in particular as a source of noise and as a contributor to climate change, and that these effects will increase with the growth of aviation; 18. Notes that the joint statement on environmental cooperation is of critical importance in addressing the environmental impacts of international aviation, but regrets that Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) regulation is not part of the preliminary agreement; points out that further talks will need to be held with the US with a view to the entry into force of ETS by 2012; 19. Welcomes the agreement to work together in the framework of the International Civil Aviation Organisation to reduce aircraft noise and emissions, together with the intention to enhance technical cooperation between the EU and US in the fields of climate science, research and technology development, fuel efficiency and reduction of emissions from air transport, and the exchange of best practices on noise reduction, while acknowledging differences in local circumstances; Social policy 20. Welcomes the agreement’s recognition of the importance of the social dimension and the responsibility given to the Joint Committee to monitor the social effects of the agreement and develop appropriate responses as necessary; 21. Calls on the Commission to use the agreement to promote compliance with relevant international legislation on social rights, in particular the labour standards embodied in the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO 1930-1999), the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises (1976, revised 2000) and the Rome Convention on the Law Applicable to Contractual Obligations of 1980; 22. Insists that EU social legislation should be applied to employees recruited and/or working in the Member States, in particular the Directives concerning the consultation and information of employees (2002/14/EC, 98/59/EC and 80/987/EEC), the Directive on the organisation of working time of mobile staff in civil aviation (2000/79/EC) and the Directive concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services (96/71/EC); Operation of the Agreement 23. Calls on the Commission to ensure that the European Parliament is fully informed and consulted about the work of the Joint Committee like all relevant stakeholders; 24. Recalls that following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, European Parliament consent is required before the conclusion of an international agreement in the field of ordinary procedure (Article 218(6)); 25. Welcomes the idea of regular meetings between Members of the European Parliament and the US Congress to discuss all relevant issues concerning EU-US aviation policy; 26. Asks the European Commission to start the process of third-stage negotiations