P5_TA(2001)0456 Ombudsman: regulations and general conditions A5-0240/2001 European Parliament resolution amending Article 3 of the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the Ombudsman's duties (1999/2215(ACI)) The European Parliament, - having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 195(4) thereof, - having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, and in particular Article 20d(4) thereof, - having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 107d(4) thereof, - having regard to its decision of 9 March 1994 on the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the Ombudsman's duties OJ L 113, 4.5.1994, p. 15. , as incorporated into Annex X to the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, - having regard to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on Petitions ( A5-0240/2001 ), 1. Decides to amend as follows Article 3(2) of its decision of 9 March 1994 on the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the Ombudsman's duties: Regulations and general conditions Proposed amendment 2. The Community institutions and bodies shall be obliged to supply the Ombudsman with any information he has requested of them and give him access to the files concerned. They may refuse only on duly substantiated grounds of secrecy. 2. The Community institutions and bodies shall be obliged to supply the Ombudsman with any information that he requests of them and to allow him to consult and take copies of any document. 'Document' shall mean any content whatever its medium (written on paper or stored in electronic form or as a sound, visual or audiovisual recording). They shall give access to documents originating in a Member State and classed as secret by law or regulation only where that Member State has given its prior agreement. They shall give him access to all classified documents originating in a Member State after having informed the Member State concerned . They shall give access to other documents originating in a Member State after having informed the Member State concerned. In both cases, in accordance with Article 4, the Ombudsman may not divulge the content of such documents. In all cases where documents are classified as SECRET (secret) or CONFIDENTIEL (confidential) , in accordance with Article 4, the Ombudsman may not divulge the content of such documents. Officials and other servants of Community institutions and bodies must testify at the request of the Ombudsman ; they shall speak on behalf of and in accordance with instructions from their administrations and shall continue to be bound by their duty of professional secrecy . Officials and other servants of Community institutions and bodies shall testify at the request of the Ombudsman . They shall give complete and truthful information. 2. Instructs its President, in pursuance of Article 195(4) of the EC Treaty, to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission.