Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (4 March 2011) The European Commission is not only aware of the Council Conclusions on itinerant criminal gangs, it was closely associated to the drafting and discussions in the Council working group and in addition participated in an expert seminar organised by the former Belgian Presidency of the EU. The Commission indeed believes that part of the solution lies in complementing a purely criminal law approach with alternative means such as public-private partnerships (at local level) or prevention through active collaboration between law enforcement and other public authorities (through the so called ‘administrative approach’). As outlined in the Council Conclusions, the Commission will help establish and develop in 2011 a network of experts and contact points on the administrative approach to promote the concept, further develop it and exchange best practices. Closer cooperation of EU police and judicial authorities would also be beneficial, but the Commission believes that the necessary tools are largely in place and that the focus should now be on improving implementation. It will assist EU Member States (e.g. through its financial programmes) with implementing existing EU police and judicial cooperation tools. The Commission has repeatedly promoted the use of ISEC(Financial Programme for the prevention and fight against crime) funds to finance projects, be it in the area of research, exchanging best practices, awareness raising etcetera related to itinerant criminal gangs. As regards the victimisation study focusing on businesses, the first stage of the study was concluded in December 2009. Based on the findings and the proposals of the contractors, the terms of reference for a pilot survey in all Member States were drafted in 2010. The call for tenders was published in December 2010 and is still open for submission of applications. It is expected to have the contract in place by June 2011. The duration of the study is 18 months.