3.2. Adapting the general approach to the changing situation where partner countries become members in the EU; noting the specific needs this creates for regional development and cross-border cooperation; adapting the INTERREG II programme to the new situation; 3.3. Making sustainable development the keystone of the Northern Dimension; 3.4. Paying special attention to the unique fragile marine environment of the Baltic Sea by emphasising projects on waste water management and prevention of oil pollution; 3.5. Finding ways to solve the problems concerning the management of nuclear waste in the Barents Sea; persuading Russia to sign the Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation (MNEPR); 3.6. Strengthening concerted joint actions in the field of health and social policy, especially with respect to the serious cross-border threats of communicable diseases, notably HIV-AIDS, and in order to reduce the enormous socio-economic and health inequalities in the region; 3.7. Emphasising people-to-people contacts at grass-roots level across the region; 3.8. Stressing the role and participation of indigenous peoples in the Northern Dimension policy, both in planning and programming and as regards their particular concerns and the support they need; 3.9. Facilitating cross-border trade and travel through projects aimed especially at improving infrastructure crucial to east-west connections; 3.10. Enhancing the balanced development of gas, oil and electricity infrastructure and, above all, sustainable use of natural resources in Arctic regions; 3.11. Improving coordination between the EU, the Arctic Council, the Barents Council, the Nordic Council and other actors, as well as creating a clear division of responsibility among all relevant public bodies within the EU; 3.12. Supporting activities aimed at overcoming existing difficulties due to lack of capacities in environmental administration in Russia at federal and regional level; 3.13. Creating a Northern Dimension Forum to improve the coordination of the Northern Dimension and broaden its democratic basis; 3.14. Giving the Northern Dimension policies a specific line in the EU budget; introducing the practice of annual reporting by the Commission to the European Parliament on developments in the policy area of the Northern Dimension; 3.15. Improving the coordination of financing instruments managed by the EU Commission and the international financial institutions; appropriately exploring further use of the new model of cofinancing and management of projects in the framework of the Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership (NDEP) Support Fund; 3.16. Paying special attention to the unique position of the Kaliningrad area and finding innovative solutions to its problems; 4. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission.