2004/C 78 E/177 WRITTEN QUESTION P-2811/03 by Rosa Miguélez Ramos (PSE) to the Commission (18 September 2003) Subject: Situation of the Mauritanian fishing ground In its communication on an integrated framework for fisheries partnership agreements with third countries COM(2002) 637 final. and in the Green Paper on reform of the CFP, the Commission emphasises the development cooperation component which these international fisheries agreements must contain. Development cooperation should not mean that fishing agreements become unbalanced, with financial compensation far exceeding the value of catch possibilities, but that the Community and European firms should transfer technology and know-how to developing countries so that those countries' fishery resources increase in value. This means that third countries must properly regulate the exploitation of fishery resources so that their fleets also practise sustainable fishing. At present, however, genuine fisheries development cooperation is not taking place, particularly in relation to the main agreement with Mauritania, and the Commission is not exerting pressure on the other party, i.e. the Mauritanian Government, to guarantee the proper sustainable management of fishery resources. The result is that the Community fleet cannot catch the quotas granted under the agreement and the agreement is therefore not profitable for Community firms, which have to pay a large fee and subsequently find that, owing to Mauritania's failure to ensure the sustainable management of resources, there are not sufficient resources available. Large numbers of launches, canoes and other vessels fish for octopus with traps in breeding grounds close to the beaches. Numerous Chinese vessels fish under the Mauritanian flag or in fictitious joint ventures without respecting the most basic principles of responsible fishing. Fifteen Dutch supertrawlers authorised to catch pelagic species use enormous nets reaching from the surface to the sea bed and scoop up everything in their path … The small-scale artisanal fleet wreaks havoc in the breeding grounds and destroys stocks, while the industrial fleet complies with the requirements of sustainable fishing. Is the Commission aware of these facts? Has it expressed its concern at the deterioration in the fishing ground to the Mauritanian Government? What steps will the Commission take to cooperate with the Mauritanian authorities on the responsible management of fishery resources?