WRITTEN QUESTION P-3269/07 by Giuseppe Castiglione (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (19 June 2007) Subject: Abuse of a dominant position by the Italian State Railways On 1 January 2003 the intermodal transport services company LSI concluded an agreement with Trenitalia Spa, a company belonging 100 % to the State Railways (FS) group, concerning the provision of rail transport services requested by LSI on the Milan-Catania-Alcamo route. In 2004 Trenitalia Spa transferred the terminus for the departure and arrival of LSI's trains from Milano-S.Cristoforo station to Milan-Rogoreto initially, and then to Milan-Segrate, following a decision by the RFI to use the first two termini for other purposes. The State Railways decided that the only transport provider to operate out of Milan-Segrate should be the company Cemat, in which the Cargo Division of the State Railways/Trenitalia has a 53.28 % holding. Cemat competes with LSI, since it too operates intermodal services on the Catania-Milan route. The transfer of LSI's terminal to Milan-Segrate obliged LSI to use the services of Cemat for terminus operations, which cost more than those of the previous service provider. Trenitalia adopted an obstructive approach to LSI. For example, Trenitalia rolling stock was unavailable for every LSI train, there were delays, routes were not granted during the month of August on the grounds of a shortage of operational staff, as a result of which LSI was obliged to put its own customers' freight onto Cemat trains, which it turned out were operating regularly during that period. Whilst the contract with LSI was being renewed, Trenitalia increased its charges by more than 25 % and reduced the deadline for payment from 120 to 60 days, thereby forcing LSI to increase its own charges and give up routes and thus lose customers, whilst Cemat acquired new routes from 1 June. There have been instances of Trenitalia making unauthorised use of LSI trains to carry freight. Does not the Commission consider that the Italian State Railways group is abusing its dominant position on the market in contravention of Article 82(2)(a) and (c) of the EC Treaty, in view of the case-law of the Court of Justice on the subject of external facilities and the fact that the Catania-Milan route constitutes a ‘substantial part’ of the market for the purposes of the implementation of that article? In this case, what steps will the Commission take, bearing in mind also the infringement of Article 10 of the EC Treaty, in that the capital of the State Railways is owned totally by the Italian Ministry for Economic Affairs and Finance?