Riera Madurell , Filiz Hakaeva Hyusmenova , Luigi de Magistris , Elisabeth Schroedter , Valdemar Tomaševski , Kyriacos Triantaphyllides , John Bufton , Andrew Henry William Brons , Slavi Binev , Eduard Kukan , Monica Luisa Macovei , Zoran Thaler , Ramon Tremosa i Balcells , Marie-Christine Vergiat , Martin Ehrenhauser , Gerard Batten , Ivo Vajgl , Sylvie Guillaume , Andrey Kovatchev , Cătălin Sorin Ivan and Metin Kazak . IN THE CHAIR: Rodi KRATSA-TSAGAROPOULOU Vice-President 15 Equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity ***II (debate) Recommandation for second reading on the Council at first reading with a view to the adoptin od a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity and repealing Directive 86/613/EEC [17279/3/2009 - C7-0075/2010 - 2008/0192(COD) ] - Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. Rapporteur: Astrid Lulling ( A7-0146/2010 ) Astrid Lulling introduced the recommendation for second reading. The following spoke: Günther Oettinger (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Anna Záborská , on behalf of the PPE Group, Rovana Plumb , on behalf of the S&D Group, Antonyia Parvanova , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Raül Romeva i Rueda , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Marina Yannakoudakis , on behalf of the ECR Group, Eva-Britt Svensson , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Mara Bizzotto , on behalf of the EFD Group, Christa Klaß , Britta Thomsen , Riikka Manner , Ilda Figueiredo , Pascale Gruny , Edite Estrela , Lena Kolarska-Bobińska , Iratxe García Pérez , Joanna Katarzyna Skrzydlewska , Marc Tarabella , Zuzana Roithová and Antigoni Papadopoulou . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Franz Obermayr , Angelika Werthmann and Paul Rübig . The following spoke: Günther Oettinger and Astrid Lulling . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 18.5.2010, item 8.11 . 16 Energy performance of buildings ***II (debate) Recommendation for second reading on the Council's position at first reading for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the energy performance of buildings (recast) [05386/3/2010 - C7-0095/2010 - 2008/0223(COD) ] - Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. Rapporteur: Silvia-Adriana Ţicău ( A7-0124/2010 ) Silvia-Adriana Ţicău introduced the recommendation for second reading. IN THE CHAIR: Stavros LAMBRINIDIS Vice-President The following spoke: Günther Oettinger (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Paul Rübig , on behalf of the PPE Group, Zigmantas Balčytis , on behalf of the S&D Group, Fiona Hall , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Claude Turmes , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Vicky Ford , on behalf of the ECR Group, Marisa Matias , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Jaroslav Paška , on behalf of the EFD Group , Maria Da Graça Carvalho , Ivari Padar , Karima Delli and Algirdas Saudargas . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Marian-Jean Marinescu , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Andreas Mölzer , Seán Kelly , Elena Băsescu , Zuzana Roithová and