basis of a successful definition phase, it should be possible to raise the necessary means from the private and public sectors without creating yet another levy. It should be added that there are concerns about the legal base of this proposal: The Commission has chosen Article 171 of the Treaty (consultation procedure), because the legislative proposal concerns the establishment of a Joint Undertaking. On the other hand, the proposal shall ensure the modernisation of the European air traffic management system and is as such closely linked to the single European sky legislation, which was under co-decision. Whereas Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs (JURI) did not see sufficient grounds for changing the legal base to co-decision, your rapporteur intends to further scrutinise this question in close contact with Mrs Hennicot-Schoepges, rapporteur of the lead Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE). Finally your rapporteur suggests some amendments on the appointment of the Executive Director, the possibility of convening extraordinary meetings of the Administrative Board and on the definition of a majority in the Board. Given the importance of the SESAR project, it is also proposed to strengthen the role of the European Parliament by explicitly requesting progress reports from the European Commission every three years. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Transport and Tourism calls on the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Citation 1 - Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 171 thereof, - Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 171 and 173 thereof, Justification In line with the applicable case-law, especially the judgments of 26 March 1987 (Case 45/86, Commission v. Council, ECR 1493), 11 February 1991 (Case 300/89, Commission v. Council, ECR I-2867) and 26 April 1996 (Case C-271/94, Parliament v. Council, ECR I-1689), this amendment aims to enable Parliament to be more fully involved in the creation, development and establishment of the Joint Undertaking. Amendment 2 Recital 3 (3) The SESAR project aims to integrate and coordinate activities which were previously undertaken in a dispersed and uncoordinated manner in the Community. (3) The SESAR project aims to integrate and coordinate activities which were previously undertaken in a dispersed and uncoordinated manner in the Community , including the most remote and outlying regions thereof, as referred to in Article 299(2) of the Treaty. Justification This amendment supplies legal clarification in line with the Treaty. Amendment 3 Recital 7 (7) In accordance with Article 15(3) of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004, the route charges can provide income to finance projects aimed at supporting specific categories of airspace users and/or air navigation service providers in order to improve the collective air navigation structures, the supply of air navigation services and the use of airspace. deleted Justification An additional levy on air navigation charges must be avoided. User charges will already contribute to the programme via Eurocontrol. A successful definition phase should deliver a clear