advance or require an authorisation for each experiment or test. 2. An application shall be submitted to the Member State in whose territory the experiment or test is to be conducted, together with a dossier containing all the available data to permit an assessment of possible effects on human or animal health or the possible impact on the environment. 3. An authorisation for trial purposes shall not be granted for experiments or tests involving the release into environment of a genetically modified micro-organism unless such release has been accepted under Directive 2001/18/EC. 4. Detailed rules for the application of this Article, in particular the maximum quantities of plant protection products that may be released during experiments or tests and the minimum data to be submitted in accordance with paragraph 2, may be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4) . Section 2 Use and information Article 58 Use of plant protection products Plant protection products shall be used properly. Proper use shall include compliance with the conditions established in accordance with Article 31 and specified on the labelling, and application of the principles of good plant protection practice as well as, whenever possible, the principles of integrated pest management▐. At the latest by 1 January 2014 proper use of plant protection products shall comply with the principles of integrated pest management, including good plant protection practice and good environmental practice . Detailed rules for the application of this Article including minimum requirements for these principles may be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83(3) . Article 59 Information on potentially harmful effects 1. The holder of an authorisation for a plant protection product shall immediately notify the Member States ▐ of any new information concerning that plant protection product, or an active substance, safener or synergist contained in the plant protection product, which suggests that the plant protection product has harmful effects which might mean that the plant protection product or the active substance, safener or synergist no longer complies with the criteria set out in Articles 30 and 4 respectively. In particular, potentially harmful effects of that plant protection product, or of residues of an active substance, safener or synergist contained in it, on human or animal health or on surface water and groundwater, or their potentially unacceptable effects on plants or plant products and other parts of the environment shall be notified. To this end the authorisation holder shall record and report all suspected adverse reactions in humans , in animals and the environment related to the use of the plant protection product. The obligation to notify shall include relevant information on decisions or assessments by public bodies which authorise plant protection products or active substances in third countries. 2. The notification shall include an assessment of whether and how the new information means that the plant protection product or the active substance, safener or synergist no longer comply with the requirements set out in Article 30 and Article 4 respectively. 3. The Member State receiving such notification