for the years 2007-2013. Thus in 2007, as the opening year of the new programming period, there is approximately a 10% reduction linked to the overall decrease in the allocation set aside for the structural funds. All appropriations for fisheries for the 2007-13 period are contained under Heading 2: Preservation and Management of Natural Resources. The 2007 Preliminary draft budget registers, in the fisheries sector, commitment and payment appropriations which respectively amount to € 923 million and € 1.2 billion. Several key elements of the budget emerge. These include an increase of 6.7% for external action. €194 million is allocated to international fisheries agreements in order to take account of new agreements, while a substantial rise is envisaged in non-compulsory contributions to international organisations (Regional Fisheries Organisations) including some €6 million for new action in the framework of fisheries agreements such as combating illegal, unregulated and unreported (IUU) fisheries and improving scientific advice. Governance of the CFP receives a 41% increase including action to promote the new Green Paper on a Future Maritime Policy for the Union and to carry out studies on maritime affairs. Support for the management of fishery resources (collection of basic data and improvement of scientific advice) has been split from control and inspection with increases of 12 and 25%. For the European Fisheries Fund, the allocations for payments include the 7% advance foreseen in the regulation. With regard to markets, expenditure remains the same, although some changes are made to the mode of financial management. Finally, in relation to research, management of the 7th Framework Programme has been transferred from DG FISH to DG RTD. Comments The draftswoman broadly welcomes the Budget proposals for 2007 given the limits dictated by the Financial Perspective and believes that they should be sufficient to cover current obligations but recalls the fact that the projected resources decided upon by the European Council in December 2005 are insufficient overall to meet the needs of the fisheries sector at a time of continued crisis in the fishing industry. Some specific comments may, nevertheless, be made in relation to the figures adopted by the Council in the Draft Budget of 14 July, where several cuts were made in relation to the Commission's proposals. With regard to international fisheries agreements, the Council has cut €10m from the reserve for both commitments and payments. This could pose problems for the Union's legal obligations in this area. The amounts should therefore be restored. The other cuts made by Council relate only to payments. €23m has been taken from the European Fisheries Fund for Convergence regions and €7m for non-Convergence regions, which would make it impossible to pay the 7% advance stipulated under the EFF Regulation. €5m has also been reduced from the budget line for the collection of basic data and €7m from the budget line for the financial contribution to Member States for expenses in the field of control. These cuts in what must be seen as priority areas of the CFP are arbitrary and unjustified. Moreover, they send precisely the wrong signal at this critical