Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (15 September 2011) In its communication on A Single Market for Intellectual Property Rights COM(2011)287 final. , which the Honourable Member refers to in his question, the Commission is committed to fostering innovation, new business models and consumer choice in the internal market through a robust intellectual property rights framework. The Commission has clearly outlined the various copyright initiatives, including legislative ones, that it plans to undertake in the coming months with these objectives in mind. 1. With respect to the enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPR) within the internal market, the Commission has also indicated that it intends to review the IPR Enforcement Directive in order to ensure an EU framework apt to effectively combat infringements of IPR via the Internet, while respecting at the same time all fundamental rights recognised by the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. As far as Ireland's internal consultation for a possible review of its national copyright law is concerned, the Commission is not in a position to comment on a process that is ongoing except to welcome it as a valuable contribution to the ongoing European debates on copyright and to underline that any proposed revisions to the copyright legislations of Member States must be in full compliance with the EU acquis . National draft legislation governing information society services has to be notified to the Commission pursuant to Directive 98/34/EC Directive 98/34/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations, OJ L 204, 21.7.1998. . 2. As regards ensuring that the copyright exceptions and limitations are fostering the development of innovative industries in Europe, Directive 2001/29/EC Directive 2001/29/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society, OJ L 167, 22.6.2011. has already built in an optional system of exceptions and limitations to copyright which give Member States leeway to adapt to emerging market conditions. Nevertheless, in the abovementioned communication, the Commission has undertaken to examine whether the current copyright exceptions and limitations under Directive 2001/29/EC need to be updated and/or fully harmonised, particularly in view of the promotion of attractive and affordable legal offers of digital content across the EU. As regards the private copying exception and the concept of fair compensation, the Commission stated in the abovementioned communication that the proper functioning of the internal market requires conciliation of private copying levies with the free movements of goods. In order to achieve this, the communication announces that the Commission will appoint a high level mediator to explore possible approaches with a view to harmonising the methodology used to impose levies, improve the administration of levies, the setting of tariff rates, and the inter-operability of the various national systems in light of the cross-border effects that a disparate levy system has on the internal market. The mediator will be appointed in autumn 2011. A concerted effort