Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (3 March 2009) The Commission implements the EC's humanitarian aid through a series of implementing partners covering international organisations such as United Nations (UN) agencies and the Red Cross) and non-governmental organisations which are based in the EU. These humanitarian organisations have the contractual responsibility for the management of humanitarian aid funded by the EC. Therefore, the Commission, through its humanitarian aid department (DG ECHO), does not do direct transfer of EC humanitarian funds to the Palestinian Authority or any other Palestinian organisation, whether in Gaza or in the West Bank. The proper implementation of DG ECHO-funded operations, irrespective of whether they are in Gaza or the West Bank, is ensured through several layers of checks and controls at the various stages of the project cycle of humanitarian operations. The main aspects of the control strategy developed by DG ECHO, its supervision and monitoring procedures and the ex-ante and ex-post controls are described below: — Strict selection and quality control mechanisms for partners under the framework Partnership Agreement (FPA) signed with the EU based non-governmental organisation (NGOs) and International organisations defining the requirements for financial credentials and expertise of implementing partners. Regular as well as ad hoc assessment of FPA partners ensures that these requirements are maintained continuously. For UN-organisations the financial management and control requirements are defined in the EC/UN Financial Administrative Framework Agreement (FAFA). — Strictly needs based systems for the identification of the actions to be funded. These needs assessments are done by the partner organisations and cross-checked/monitored by DG ECHO's technical assistants on the ground. A concern that the Commission has in relation to the current crisis in Gaza is that, because of the lack of adequate access (for humanitarian goods and staff) to the Strip, the international organisations present on the ground cannot provide the sufficient level of assistance which is required. — Day-to-day control of progress of projects. Each grant and contribution agreement is monitored by the desk and field expert and that is recorded in a project appraisal worksheet (‘fichop’). — Project monitoring through a network of DG ECHO field experts (technical assistants) worldwide. These specialists are based in the field in order to facilitate and maximise the impact of the operations funded by the Commission, regardless whatever country or regions where the project is implemented. These experts monitor closely the projects and establish regular reports. In situations like Gaza, where there are obstacles to access, the lack of field visits is partly compensated by the remote follow up of operations through regular direct contacts and meetings with the implementing partners. — Obligation for partners to produce intermediate and final reports and to justify their expenses. — DG ECHO undertakes regularly evaluations of its main operations and partners. For the Occupied Palestinian Territories OPT (both West Bank and Gaza), in addition to a general evaluation in 2004, the operations of two major partners, International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) (2006) and United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East