registered mail or electronically, a standard form to which the instrument or decision emanating from the applicant Member State , or a certified copy thereof, is attached; for this standard form, the model set in the Annex I shall be used. Amendment 6 Proposal for a directive Article 12 – paragraph 3 3. The entire amount of the claim that is recovered by the requested authority shall be remitted to the applicant Member State. 3. The entire amount of the claim that is recovered by the requested authority shall be remitted to the applicant Member State within 14 days of receipt of the request . Amendment 7 Proposal for a directive Article 23 a (new) Article 23a Follow-up of activities carried out in accordance with this Directive The central liaison offices shall issue an annual report on cooperation activities carried out during the previous tax year in accordance with this Directive. That report shall detail at least the number of requests received and issued, the action taken, the reasons given where the request was refused, the time taken to deal with the request, the amount of the claim and the amounts actually recovered. The report shall be forwarded to the European Parliament and the Commission for their opinions. Amendment 8 Proposal for a directive Article 27 – paragraph 1 a (new) The Commission shall work towards good cooperation between the Member States and shall, on an ongoing basis, monitor any complaints of shortcomings in the exchange of information and assistance between the Member States with a view to recovery in accordance with this Directive. Amendment 9 Proposal for a directive Article 27 a (new) Article 27a Commission analysis The Commission shall conduct a comparative analysis on a wide range of tax recovery instruments provided for in Member States' tax codes, such as collection orders, recovery claims specified in the real estate property records, liens, enforcement procedure deadlines required by law and applied in practice with a view to facilitating the implementation of best practices for tax recovery in Member States.