strengthen, cooperation not only between the EU and the countries of origin but also between the countries of origin themselves, especially among the countries included in the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), between the ACP countries and between the former and the latter; 53. Expects the Commission, when taking measures against organised trafficking in human beings from developing countries, not to criminalise the victims, but to focus on punishing the perpetrators; notes that many women who are victims of human trafficking have no access to legal or social protection; 54. Calls on the Commission to recognise child migration as a distinct aspect of economic migration and to guarantee the rights of, and protection for, migrants who are minors, pursuant to Article 24 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union; 55. Considers that the regulation of immigration between third countries would help to protect the human and labour rights of immigrants, whilst helping to track down human traffickers and bring them to justice; 56. Recommends that the Commission make it easier for legal migrants who have returned to developing countries to immigrate again to the EU than for migrants immigrating to the European Union for the first time, in recognition of the experience of integrating which the former have gained; 57. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the governments and parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The present Green Paper discusses various regulatory aspects of the management of economic migration. This provides an opportunity for a frank discussion of economic migration, the ultimate aim being to secure a reliable overview of opinion in the Member States and in the European institutions. Both the on-line consultation exercise and the public hearing held by the European Commission on 16 June 2005 attracted a broad response and in-depth opinions on the issue. Your rapporteur has deliberately confined herself to discussing a number of fundamental issues and giving pointers to the way ahead. It is not her intention to respond here to all the questions raised in the Green Paper. A detailed opinion on individual aspects of the management of economic migration cannot be delivered until after subsequent drafts have been discussed by the European Commission. The LIBE Committee points out the effective development of a common migration policy with due regard for fundamental rights and international obligations is a priority goal of European integration. The creation of a coherent legal framework for immigration requires: 路 synergies between European policies in areas such as employment, social affairs, development and external affairs; 路 a system for the exchange of information and prior notification between the national authorities responsible for immigration and asylum; 路 coordination of all structures involved in the management of migratory flows at both European and national level to avoid the risk of overlapping; 路 cooperation with countries of origin, including clear information for potential immigrants about their job prospects and future living conditions. EU citizens' acceptance of legal economic migration depends to a large extent on everything possible being done to prevent illegal migration, through