Question for written answer E-8996/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Cătălin Sorin Ivan (S&D) and Daciana Octavia Sârbu (S&D) (28 October 2010) Subject: Temporary employment contracts A significant increase has recently been recorded in temporary work contracts in the EU, particularly as this provides greater flexibility on the labour market. However, temporary workers from within the EU, and especially those from central and eastern Europe, face a series of problems when working in other Member States. In many cases, they perform the same work as nationals of the Member State in which they are working, but are not paid the same amount, sign initial contracts that are not honoured in the country of destination and, very often, on arrival there have to sign another contract in a language most of them do not understand and which is disadvantageous to them. Cases have also been recorded of the conditions promised in the initial contract not being the same as those they find in the country where they have been offered temporary employment. Moreover, the trade unions have discovered that some seasonal workers do not have health insurance or social welfare insurance, and that if there are no bilateral agreements between the Member States concerned, they cannot transfer their pension entitlements. These circumstances necessitate closer monitoring of the implementation of Directive 2008/104/EC on temporary agency work in the Member States, especially in the case of temporary work in another Member State. There is also a need for better regulation of the rights of seasonal workers. In view of the above, can the Commission state: 1. what monitoring instruments it has to verify the compliance of initial contracts with contracts in the country of destination, and to assess whether Directive 2008/104/EC is being correctly implemented in Member States; 2. whether it anticipates in the near future bringing forward a proposal regulating the rights of seasonal workers from within the EU?