set a limit on further petrol and diesel tax increases in the Member States which already have the highest taxes. Women in rural areas Parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the situation of women in rural areas of the EU, Christa KLAß (EPP-ED, DE) for the Women's Rights committee which calls on the Member States to develop strategies aimed at curbing the out-migration of women in rural areas, especially those who are highly educated. The European Parliament is convinced that mainstreaming gender into the rural sector is a key strategy not only for the promotion of equality between women and men but also for economic growth and sustainable rural development. Taking account of the special needs of women in prisons The European Parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the situation of women in prison, a minority of the prison population but a fast-growing one. The report focuses on prison conditions, the preservation of family ties and reintegration into society and the workplace. Women account for a small percentage of the prison population in the European Union - around 5% - with Spain and Portugal having the largest numbers at 8% and 10% respectively, but most European countries have experienced a significant increase. The female prison population grew by 410% in Cyprus between 1994 and 2003 and by 173% in England and Wales from 1992 to 2002. CAP health check: MEPs' first response Parliament adopted a report on the Commission's proposals for further reform of the CAP, known as the "CAP health check". The European Parliament recommends broad approval of the proposals, although it has reservations about certain points, including the amount of funds to be switched from the "first pillar" of the CAP (market support) to the "second pillar" (rural development) as well as the capping of direct aid. Dairy quotas: MEPs favour 2% voluntary increase The European Parliament believes the dairy quotas of the Member States should be increased on a voluntary basis by 2% from 1 April 2008, with a mechanism for "balancing out" between states that exceed their quotas and those that under-use them, to avoid penalising any state that has a surplus. This should provide a solution to growing demand on world markets, while taking account of differing situations among EU producers. Biogas - a need for a review of EU legislation say MEPs Parliament adopted an own-initiative report by 610 votes in favour to 23 against and 13 abstentions on sustainable agriculture and biogas: a need for a review of EU legislation. The report stresses that, in the long term, renewable energy sources such as biogas and biofuels, together with solar power and wind energy, subject to further intensified research efforts, can bring about a higher degree of independence from fossil-fuel energy sources. EP gives green light for European Institute of Innovation and Technology The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) will be able to start operating this summer, after the Council's common position on its establishment was officially approved by the European Parliament. The common position was reached after negotiations with the Parliaments' rapporteur Reino