at least in quarterly reports, of the results obtained and progress of the work of the research groups and of the Network; 22. Requires at least the following three kinds of information to appear in the quarterly reports: (a) a summary of the most important results of the workshops held so far, (b) reactions of the research groups, and (c) a statement by the Commission on the way in which it proposes to take account of these results in its subsequent work; 23. Calls on the Commission to act in the closest possible cooperation with the Parliament in every step taken towards developing a CFR; is of the opinion that Parliament should be formally consulted first on the draft structure and subsequently on each title or section of the CFR (depending on its final structure) as it is finalised, before it is ultimately consulted on the final instrument; 24. Calls on the Commission to consult Parliament before taking any further planning measures; 25. Calls on the Commission to allow the network of representatives of practice-based interests more time to prepare and discuss the complex substance of the work of the CFR-Net workshops; 26. Urges that the organisations which appear on behalf of the interest groups in the CFR-Net be able to decide for themselves which representatives take part in the meetings; 27. Instructs its Committee on Legal Affairs and its committees asked for their opinions on European contract law to continually follow the work of the Commission, the research groups and the Network and, where appropriate, to issue opinions on the results regularly issued by the Commission; 28. Urges each Council Presidency to organise a forum in cooperation with the Commission and the European Parliament in which the progress and results of the procedure may be presented and discussed; 29. In order to give this ambitious and long-term project the visibility and attention which it warrants, undertakes to reflect carefully on how it should best be dealt with in Parliament itself, and accordingly suggests the setting-up of a parliamentary project team which should be properly resourced in order to deal with this long-term project over the period of the current parliamentary term and which should reflect the enhanced cooperation procedure between committees; 30. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Background On 11 October 2004 the European Commission submitted to the European Parliament and the Council a Communication entitled “European Contract Law and the revision of the acquis : the way forward” COM(2004)0651 . . This communication describes the Commission’s follow-up measures to the Action Plan entitled “A more coherent European contract law” of 12 February 2003 COM(2003)0068 . . On 23 September 2005 the Commission submitted the First Annual Progress Report on European Contract Law and the Acquis Review. COM(2005)0456 . One of the follow-up measures is the creation of a Common Frame of Reference (CFR) on Community contract law. The Commission envisages that the CFR’s spheres of action might include: national legislators’ being able to make use of the CFR even in