Section IV.3 (b) to (d). This appears to be partly due to the complexity of the legal information supplied with the CS proposal, both by ELAS and the FSA, which may well have been beyond the understanding of the average policyholder. 18. The committee also believes that a clear warning should have informed policyholders that, by agreeing to the CS, the with-profits-fund's stability was by no means guaranteed in the long term and remained fully exposed to the fluctuations of financial markets and that the uplifts in policy values granted under the CS could possibly be wiped out by further cuts in policy values. Mis-selling allegations 19. There have been many statements both direct and indirect, some of which clearly support the contention that ELAS was responsible for mis-selling and misrepresentation to policyholders and potential clients, in the UK, Ireland, Germany and in other Member States where it had operations. 20. In particular, there are statements 3 see Part III, Section IV.2 (a) and Section IV.4 (a). which suggest that ELAS misinformed policyholders and prospective customers on a number of issues, knowingly omitting to draw their attention to the GAR risk, even after ELAS had sought legal advice on the GAR problem with its solicitors and regulators. 21. The committee welcomes the Distance-Selling Directive of 2002 (Directive 2002/65/EC, amending Directive 97/7/EC), which successfully seeks to clarify legal provisions for the facilitation of the selling of insurance policies outside the Member State in which the company is headquartered. 22. The committee has heard further mis-selling allegations, suggesting that ELAS sales material claimed that the with-profits fund was smoothing out fluctuations in earnings and asset values. Furthermore, it was alleged that ELAS pursued an aggressive policy of churning existing ELAS policies towards newer investment policies which were highly profitable for ELAS, thus generating new business and commissions and requiring even smaller capital reserves, clearly contrary to policyholders' interests. 23. There are also statements to support a range of other mis-selling allegations in the other Member States where ELAS had sales operations, for example tempting prospective customers by holding out the potential investments to have specific qualities which did not actually exist, for example, the claims that Irish or international policies were ring-fenced, and that German policies were subject to the German Financial Regulator's control. Negligence in regulators' Conduct of Business (CoB) supervision 24. The committee believes that the UK CoB regulators reacted late, if at all, in relation to the above mentioned ELAS sales and marketing practices. CoB regulators in the other Member States concerned also reacted late, partly because appropriate supervisory structures were not yet in place and partly because they expected to rely on the efficiency of UK regulatory supervision. However, it seems that once the problems surrounding ELAS had become commonly known or brought to their attention, Irish and German regulators' CoB supervision belatedly improved. 25. In general terms, the statements heard and submitted strongly suggest that regulatory supervision of life insurance in the Member States affected has improved in the past five years, in particular where a single insurance supervisory