scientific bodies, procedures should be in place to solve the conflict or provide the risk managers with a transparent basis of scientific information. Amendment 14 Recital 34 (34) The Authority should be an independent source of information and risk communication in order to improve consumer confidence. (34) The Authority should be an independent source of information and risk communication in order to improve consumer confidence. Therefore the link between risk assessment and risk management should be strengthened. Amendment 15 Recital 35 (35) A system for rapid alert already exists in the framework of Council Directive 92/59/EEC of 29 June 1992 on general product safety. The scope of the existing system includes food and industrial products but not feed. Recent food crises have demonstrated the need to set up an improved and broadened rapid alert system covering food and feed. This revised system should be operated by the Authority. The system should not cover the early exchange of information in the event of a radiological emergency established in Council Decision 87/600/Euratom. (35) A system for rapid alert already exists in the framework of Council Directive 92/59/EEC of 29 June 1992 on general product safety. The scope of the existing system includes food and industrial products but not feed products . Recent food crises have demonstrated the need to set up an improved and broadened rapid alert system covering food and feed products . This revised system should be operated by the Authority, with ultimate responsibility resting with the Commission. The system should not cover the early exchange of information in the event of a radiological emergency established in Council Decision 87/600/Euratom. Amendment 16 Recital 39 a (new) (39a) The Authority should contribute, on the basis of its opinions, to the Community's role in the development and establishment of international food safety standards and trade agreements with the objective of promoting free world trade in food products which meet internationally agreed and acceptable safety standards. Amendment 17 Recital 41 (41) It is necessary to ensure that there is effective monitoring of the Authority by the various Community institutions involved, and for this purpose its Management Board should include four representatives appointed by the European Parliament, four by the Council, and four by the Commission. The Management Board should have the necessary powers to establish the budget, check its implementation, draw up internal rules, adopt financial regulations, appoint members of the Scientific Committee and Scientific Panels and appoint the Executive Director. Deleted Amendment 18 Recital 42 (42) It is necessary to build up a relationship of confidence and transparency with the general public, and therefore the Management Board should include four representatives of consumers and industry. (42) It is necessary to build up a relationship of confidence and transparency with the general public, and therefore the Management Board should include persons with experience of food and feed production, processing and retailing, as well as persons with experience of working for consumer organisations. Amendment 19 Recital 49 (49) The establishment of the Authority should enable Member States to become more closely involved in scientific procedures; there