{ "context": [ [ "Battle of Ganjgal", [ "The Battle of Ganjgal was a battle in the War in Afghanistan fought between American and Afghan forces and the Taliban in Kunar Province, Afghanistan on September 8, 2009.", " Complaints that the coalition casualties were avoidable and caused by a failure of the chain of command to provide fire support for the team triggered an official investigation and a series of reprimands to several US military officers.", " Army Captain William D. Swenson and Marine Corporal Dakota Meyer received the Medal of Honor for their actions during the battle.", " Meyer is the first living Marine to receive the Medal of Honor since the Vietnam War, and Swenson is the fifth living Soldier and first officer to receive the Medal of Honor since the Vietnam War.", " Two other Marines at the battle, Staff Sgt. Juan Rodriguez-Chavez and Capt. Ademola Fabayo, received the Navy Cross." ] ], [ "Dorothy M. Kellogg", [ "Dorothy M. Kellogg (born July 26, 1920) was an American politician in the state of South Dakota.", " She was a member of the South Dakota House of Representatives and South Dakota State Senate.", " She attended Watertown High School and graduated in 1938.", " Kellogg is a former secretary at the South Dakota State Highway Department, accountant, Chairwoman of the Codington County Democratic Party, and a member of the South Dakota State Democratic Party Executive Board.", " She is a United Methodist." ] ], [ "Electoral history of George McGovern", [ "George McGovern, a Democratic Party politician from South Dakota, was first elected to the United States House of Representatives to represent South Dakota's 1st congressional district in 1956.", " He was re-elected in 1958, before making an unsuccessful run for the United States Senate in 1960 against Republican incumbent Karl Earl Mundt.", " After serving in the John F. Kennedy administration as director of the Food for Peace program, McGovern ran again for the Senate and narrowly prevailed over appointed Senator Joseph H. Bottum.", " In 1968, McGovern unsuccessfully sought the Democratic Party's presidential nomination at the Democratic National Convention and was re-elected to the Senate over former Governor of South Dakota Archie M. Gubbrud.", " In 1972, McGovern was successful in his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination, but lost the election in a landslide to incumbent President Richard Nixon.", " McGovern was re-elected to the Senate in 1974 over Vietnam War veteran Leo K. Thorsness, but lost re-election in 1980 to then-U.S. Representative James Abdnor.", " McGovern made a final unsuccessful run for president in United States presidential election, 1984." ] ], [ "Iceal Hambleton", [ "Lieutenant Colonel Iceal E. \"Gene\" Hambleton, USAF (November 16, 1918 – September 19, 2004) was a United States Air Force navigator and electronic warfare officer who was shot down over South Vietnam during the 1972 Easter Offensive.", " He was aboard an EB-66 aircraft whose call sign was Bat 21.", " As the ranking navigator/EWO on the aircraft, he was seated immediately behind the pilot, giving him the call sign \"Bat