In this regard, the responsibility of the national statistical authorities is to ensure the compliance of reported data with Article 1 of this Regulation and the underlying ESA 95 accounting rules. Member States shall ensure that the national statistical authorities are provided with access to all relevant information necessary to perform this task. " _____ 1 OJ L 87, 31.3.2009, p. 164. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT This proposal is the first direct reaction of the Greece problems, bringing into troubles the whole Euro-Area and the European Union as a whole. Therefore the rapporteurs strongly recommend strengthening Eurostat as much as possible to avoid future Greece cases. The fact, that wrong statistics have been submitted over years without any consequences has to be alarming enough to give Eurostat the needed investigative power. The rapporteur agrees with the Commission proposal, but stressed that the proposed amendments to the Regulation in force is the minimum that should be done taken into account the recent experiences. Therefore he would not agree with any additional limitations to proposed auditing-like powers of the Commission (Eurostat). The Council should not repeat the mistake as done on as regards the previous Commission proposal from 2005. He also fully agrees with the amendments included in the opinion of the European Central Bank as issues on 31 March 2010. In particular making an explicit reference in Article 11 to unexplained stock-flow adjustments as a reason to launch methodological visits would strengthen and clarify the role of these kinds of investigations. The rapporteur supports also a close cooperation between the Commission (Eurostat) and the ECB in planning and undertaking these kinds of investigations, while respecting the role and independence of both institutions. As stated in the Commission Communication on reinforced economic policy coordination as adopted on 12 May 2010 and in the Joint letter of Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Nicolas Sarkozy to the Presidents of the European Council and the European Commission that the lack of reliability of statistics explains to a large extent the markets’ distrust in the economic policies of Greece and that the proposals to strengthen Eurostat’s investigation powers need to enter into force as soon as possible. The rapporteur expects that politic commitments are implemented into legal binding legislative acts as fast as possible without watering down the Commission proposal. He wants to underline the basic fact that any future improvement in economic surveillance and governance must rely upon accurate, fair and comparable statistics of the relevant economic policies and positions of the Member States concerned. In this respect additional efforts will be needed in implementing the minimum standards for independence, integrity and accountability of national statistical authorities. As already demanded from the Commission in 2004, European-wide minimum standards in the domain of statistics are necessary to ensure comparability of all submitted data. The rapporteur considers that the legal base proposed by the Commission as too narrow and it that Article 338 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union would be more appropriate in this respect. RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE Date adopted 28.6.2010 Result of