to avoid these trade disputes? Chairman Neil PARISH EPP-ED UK Debate: 23.4.2008 Oral question to the Commission on zero tolerance regime for unauthorised GMOs and economic consequences thereof -//EP//TEXT OQ O-2008-0031 0 NOT XML V0//EN -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 BRI-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 BRI-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080410BRI26349 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080410BRI26349 ITEM-016-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080410BRI26349 ITEM-018-EN DOC XML V0//EN Regional policy Volunteering empowers you 2008-04-17 - 09:46 Volunteering is good for you, your community, your region's economic development and your national economy. It also helps build the "social capital" that public policies need to succeed. Over 100 million EU citizens volunteer, and every €1 spent on supporting them generates a return of between €3 and €8 - a contribution that should appear in national accounts, says a report by the Regional Development Committee. Promoting volunteering through Community policies, supporting voluntary action using EU funds, and recognising and committing to voluntary activity at EU level helps to establish direct links between citizens, their communities and the Union, explained rapporteur Marian HARKIN (ALDE, IE). Volunteering nurtures solidarity Volunteers help to implement projects under EU-funded initiatives such as the LEADER (rural development) programme, INTERREG (linking European regions) and the Northern Ireland PEACE Programme, notes the report, which calls on the Commission to put in place a system across all funds that recognises the contribution of volunteering towards co-financing EU-funded projects, and to devise mechanisms for costing and using it as a means of matching funding for them. Volunteering is also "a major force nurturing civil society and strengthening solidarity", and supporting community development programmes, says the report, which notes that "re-stimulating" volunteering may be especially necessary in those Member States, such as those emerging from a post-communist transition period, where voluntary activity "has come to be associated with actions of a compulsory nature". The report stresses that volunteering and voluntary activity should in any event not take the place of paid work. Corporate volunteering The report encourages firms to help fund initiatives to promote and enhance volunteering, as part of their corporate social responsibility strategies. It also urges Member States to create incentives for business to fund and support the voluntary sector, so as to help transfer corporate skills and know-how to the public sector and to improve the quality of life locally, by encouraging "self help" solutions to local problems. Satellite accounts The report recommends that all Member States produce regular non-profit institution (NPI) "satellite accounts", and include volunteer work in them, to enable policy makers to take account of NPIs in policy formulation. It also suggests that volunteering be made a specific category in EUROSTAT accounts. Volunteering as an education The report calls on the Commission, Member States and regional and local authorities to promote volunteering through education at all levels, including degree programmes, so that learning during volunteering is recognized as part of lifelong learning. Making life easier for voluntary bodies The report encourages Member States, regional and local authorities and voluntary organisations to develop plans to recognise, value, support, facilitate