Answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission (29 April 2011) The Commission has been informed by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) that the competent Bangladesh authority, the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB) in Dhaka, has an electronic register of the Certificates of Origin Form A (Form A) they issued. It was put in place in 2005. Furthermore, the EPB office in which the Form A is issued also maintains a hand-written register and a copy of the application file is archived there. The EPB performed a number of checks when verifying the authenticity of the Form As, including an initial check in the electronic database to verify the reference number on the said Form A, the date of issue, the name of the exporter and the name of importer. For all those Form As that did not contain accurate data, an additional check was made manually in the hand-written register and a comparison was made with archived files kept by the EPB. The Form As listed in Annex A of the OLAF report of 25 March 2009 could not be identified in the registers and archives held by the EPB. As these Form As bear reference numbers that did not exist or were allegedly issued to exporters who did not export textile goods, or in some cases were not exporters at all, the EPB and OLAF came to the joint conclusion that the Form As in question had been falsified. The relevant GSP legislation applicable for the period of importation foresees that specimen impressions of stamps are to be provided by the third country concerned to the Commission in order to allow a post verification of the authenticity of stamps to be made. These specimen stamps are formally communicated by the Commission to the Member States in order to enable them to undertake any necessary controls. As concerns the stamps it was clear from a comparison of the stamps presented on the falsified Form As that they did not conform with the specimen stamp provided. In addition, the EPB (holders of the original stamp) were asked to verify the authenticity of the stamp on each of the Form As concerned and they also confirmed that the stamps used were not genuine. Moreover, the signatures on the Form As concerned were presented to the persons responsible in the EPB and the person authorised to sign the Form As attested that the signatures were not his.