presented. This will need to be financed under the global agreement for heading 4 of the new multi-annual financial framework (MFF) as agreed by the budgetary authority. 15. The Commission's PDB 2007 presents the human rights actions separately (chapter 19 04) in terms of budget nomenclature, but as part of the four main instruments in legislative terms (in accordance with the Commission's original proposal for the new external instruments). The overall level of appropriations is EUR 130, 7 million. The strengths and weaknesses of the EIDHR 16. While in no way pretending to be exhaustive, the rapporteur wishes to highlight some of the traditional points that have consistently been mentioned in relation to the EIDHR. Positive points 17. It is generally believed that strong feature of the programme is its (potential) ability to support actions which do not necessarily have the consent of "local" governments. Needless to say, this can often be the case in countries in which even the very existence of democracy and human rights work might be banned or strongly discouraged. This positive element however does not seem to be used very often in practice. 18. The previous re-grouping of budget lines and the EP's demand for a separate regulation would allow for greater visibility in this area which traditionally is a political priority for the Parliament 19. There could be a potential to achieve better value-for-money and more relevant projects if the opportunity to make a success of the "deconcentration" process of the Commission is taken. In this way, projects should increasingly be identified and approved al EC delegation level (rather than centrally in Brussels). It should provide for better local coordination between donors and, also, cut down on administrative burdens. Negative points 20. On the strategic level, question marks have been raised as to the long-term impact of funding (sustainability over time) as financing is predominantly dispersed for individual projects over a short period of time. It has been pointed out in various evaluations, that it is difficult to discern any consistent strategy and that financing has been spread far too thinly to reach a "critical mass" of real impact. 21. The programme has been bedevilled with serious problems as regards administrative procedures, especially concerning tendering procedures and delays. In an effort to address a situation in which budgetary funds could be lagging almost two years behind (i.e. appropriations voted for one year, say, 2003 would at best start to be implemented at the end of 2004), the Commission took the (unusual) decision to "merge" the 2005 and 2006 calls for proposals for the main budget line, with a view to a "fresh start" by 2007. This was apparently related to huge delays for the 2005 call. In some ways, it seems that a successive number of internal Commission reorganisations have not yet had any positive impact. 22. The general budgetary work of the Commission in terms of more modern forms of evaluation of activities (using indicators to measure performance and value-for-money) seems to be lagging behind in this area. Questions have been raised as to how