P5_TA(2004)0246 Environment and health strategy A5-0193/2004 European Parliament resolution on a European Environment and Health Strategy ( COM(2003) 338 – C5-0551/2003 – 2003/2222(INI)) The European Parliament , – having regard to the communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee on a European environment and health strategy ( COM(2003) 338 – C5-0551/2003 ), – having regard to the proposal for a Council recommendation on cancer screening ( COM(2003) 230 ) of 5 May 2003, – having regard to Rules 47(2) and 163 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy ( A5-0193/2004 ), A. whereas in the sixth environmental Community action programme, the EU has set itself the goal of contributing to a high level of quality of life for citizens, providing an environment in which the level of pollution does not give rise to harmful effects on human health and the environment, B. whereas the Community action programme on public health (2003-2008) considers that the environment constitutes a major determining factor of the health of individuals, C. whereas the objective of a European environment and health strategy is to achieve a better understanding of the environmental threats to human health, to identify disease burden caused by environmental factors in the EU and to plan policy responses to challenges that emerge, D. whereas the ultimate objectives of the proposed strategy are: - to reduce the disease burden caused by environmental factors in the EU; - to identify and prevent new health threats caused by environmental factors; - to strengthen EU capacity for policy-making in this area, E. whereas, at a time of EU enlargement, the stepping up of measures concerning environmental health is particularly important, F. whereas the strategy lists key reasons why the links between environment and health are very complex; whereas the complexity and the resulting indeterminate factors, uncertainties and gaps in knowledge must not be relied on as an excuse to delay precautionary or preventive action, G. whereas an integrated environment and health monitoring system is to be set up for the collection of data over time, H. whereas a ministerial Conference on Environment and Health is to be held in Budapest in June 2004, and it is important that the Commission's contribution, namely the Action Plan 2004-2010, should set a good example of addressing the disease burden caused by environmental factors in concrete terms, I. whereas the connections between the EU's own actions and other programmes, such as those of the WHO and OECD, should be taken into account, as it is purposeless to create and maintain overlapping actions and overlapping organisations, J. whereas, to be truly successful, an environment and health strategy should take an intersectoral approach; whereas the link between the strategy and future legislation needs to be emphasised, K. whereas no reference to the precautionary principle is made in the aforementioned communication and whereas a proactive approach using the precautionary principle needs to be applied when science is not conclusive, but when the