the processing activities and the provision of information and the rights of data subject to access to his/her personal data as well as the correction and erasure of his/her personal data. Justification The Commission should set up a central website in order to guarantee the protection of personal data in case of online collection. All initiatives should be registered and possible to sign on this website. Otherwise, an extra burden would be put on the initiators. Amendment 21 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – point 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. "Citizens’ initiative" means an initiative, submitted to the Commission in accordance with the present Regulation, inviting the Commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Treaties, which has received the support of at least one million eligible signatories coming from at least one third of all Member States; 1. "Citizens’ initiative" means an initiative, submitted to the Commission in accordance with the present Regulation, inviting the Commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Treaties, which has received the support of at least one million eligible signatories coming from at least one fifth of all Member States; Amendment 22 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – point 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. " Organiser " means a natural or legal person or organisation responsible for the preparation and submission of a citizens' initiative to the Commission. 3. " Organisers " means natural persons forming a citizens' committee responsible for the preparation and submission of a citizens' initiative to the Commission. Amendment 23 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Where the organiser is a natural person, that person shall be a citizen of the Union and be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections . 1. Organisers shall form a citizens' committee coming from at least one fifth of the Member States. Organisers shall be citizens of the Union and at least 16 years old . Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Where the organiser is a legal person or an organisation it shall be established in a Member State . Organisations which do not have legal personality under the applicable national law shall have representatives that have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on their behalf and assume liability. deleted Justification Only natural persons should be organiser of citizens initiative in order to avoid possible abuse of existing business organisations, political parties, etc. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. In order to be eligible to support a proposed citizens' initiative, signatories shall be