needs to be adopted. Those conclusions shall neither be binding upon the Courts nor will they affect judicial resolutions. Spain-Congress Yes Independently According to Section 60.3 of the Senate's Standing Orders, The conclusions reached by these Committees shall be rendered public unless an overall or partial decision to the contrary needs to be adopted. Those conclusions shall neither be binding upon the Courts nor will they affect judicial resolutions. Sweden Yes Whereas committees have the right to arrange a hearing on a matter under judicial review, it is not recommended. In some cases the committee may decide to conduct their hearing without bringing the issue under judicial review into consideration, or the committee awaits the final judicial examination before it makes its decision. A certain distance should be adapted to the legal proceedings, to avoid any influence on the process. Switzerland No En vertu de l'article 171 de la loi du 13 Décembre 2002 Lorsque l’Assemblée fédérale a décidé d’instituer une commission d’enquête parlementaire aucune autre commission n’est plus autorisée à procéder à des investigations sur les événements qui font l’objet du mandat confié à cette commission d’enquête. L’institution d’une commission d’enquête n’empêche pas l’engagement ou la poursuite d’une procédure judiciaire civile ou administrative, d’une enquête pénale préliminaire ou d’une procédure pénale. - UK-House of Lords No - - Conclusions - PART VI, COMMITTEES OF INQUIRY PART VI - ROLE OF COMMITTEES OF INQUIRY The Committee of Inquiry, following its mandate which entitles it to put forward any proposal which it deems necessary, draws the following conclusions: 1. The committee expresses irritation and regret at the discourteous conduct of several witnesses who did not cooperate with the Inquiry. 2. The committee notes that the powers of the Committees of Inquiry, as set in the Rules of Procedure and in Decision 95/167 of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, are very limited and not in line with the political stature, needs and competences of the European Parliament. PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS of the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the crisis of the Equitable Life Assurance Society INDEX Recommendations A. Part II and III - Transposition and Regulatory system B. Part IV - Remedies C. Part V - Role of the European Commission D. Part VI - Role of Committees of Inquiry A. RECOMMENDATIONS, PART II AND III - TRANSPOSITION AND REGULATORY SYSTEM 1. The committee demands the further strengthening of prudential supervisory and regulatory standards throughout the Union, including an obligation to reserve for liabilities such as bonuses, including terminal bonuses and guaranteed benefits. 2. The committee requests financial services legislation to provide for preventive early-warning systems that are able efficiently to signal potential problems arising from the supervision or regulation of financial services companies, in particular when cross-border financial operations are involved. The committee believes that this should be encompassed by the Commission's proposal on Solvency II. 3. The committee welcomes current discussions surrounding Solvency II and the use of a principles and risk-based approach in calculating prudential requirements which will require companies to hold capital in line