Amendment 3 RECITAL 1 (1) The Commission report on the application to the 2004 elections of Council Directive 93/109/EC laying down detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals revealed the need to amend certain provisions of the Directive. (1) The Commission report on the application to the 2004 elections of Council Directive 93/109/EC laying down detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals revealed the need to amend certain provisions of the Directive. Union citizenship guarantees the same rights for all EU citizens, whether they were born, or live, in the Union itself or in a third country. The Community institutions must therefore be vigilant in ensuring that citizens of the Union resident in a third country are able to exercise their rights in the case of elections to the European Parliament. Amendment 4 RECITAL 2 A (new) (2a) It is beyond the scope of this Directive, and nothing in its provisions may have any effect on the internal legislation of a Member State regarding the possible granting of the right to vote and to stand as candidates to: (a) third country nationals residing in that Member State ; (b) nationals of the Member State residing in third countries; (c) stateless persons and others who do not hold the nationality of any country who are long-term residents of a Member State . Amendment 5 ARTICLE 1, POINT 1 A (new) Article 3 (Directive 93/109/EC) (1a) Article 3 is replaced by the following: “ Article 3 Any person who, on the reference date: (a) is a citizen of the Union within the meaning of the second subparagraph of Article 8(1) of the Treaty, (b) is not a national of the Member State of residence, but satisfies the same conditions in respect of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate as that State imposes by law on its own nationals, shall have the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament in the Member State of residence under the same voting arrangements as nationals of that Member State , unless deprived of those rights pursuant to Articles 6 and 7. Where, in order to stand as a candidate, nationals of the Member State of residence must have been nationals for a certain minimum period, citizens of the Union shall be deemed to have met this condition when they have been nationals of a Member State for the same period. ” Justification The different detailed voting arrangements offered to nationals of a Member State (distance voting or voting by proxy, etc.) should also be offered to Community voters. Amendment 6 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2, POINT (B) Article 6, paragraph 3 (Directive 93/109/EC) 3. For the purposes