Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (8 April 2010) The Commission is aware of the potential dangers linked to the use of cyanide in the mining industry. Directive 2006/21/EC on the management of extractive waste OJ L 102, 11.4.2006 . was adopted notably on the basis of the findings of the International Task Force for Assessing the Baia Mare Accident http://www.reliefweb.int/library/documents/eubaiamare.pdf . This accident happened on 30 January 2000, where a dam containing cyanide residues at the ‘Baia Mare’ goldmine in Romania broke. The task force has identified the causes of this accident as being a result of (a) the use of an inappropriate design of the tailings management facilities; (b) the acceptance of that design by the permitting authorities; and (c) inadequate monitoring and dam construction, operation and maintenance. 1. In 2009, gold was extracted in Bulgaria, Finland, Hungary, Italy, Romania and Sweden World Metal Statistics January 2010, published by the World Metal Statistics on January 20201 0 (Volume 63 Number 1) ISSN 0266-7355. . The EU production represents 0.73 % of the total world gold production. In most places, cyanide is used to extract gold as to date no effective alternative has been developed. 2 and 3. The Mining Waste Directive 2006/21/EC includes several requirements aiming at improving safety of extractive waste management facilities and limiting their impact on the environment. This directive sets clear and strict limit values in Article 13(6) for cyanide emissions. Other requirements are linked with the construction and the safety of the waste treatment and storage facilities. Moreover, in order to prevent major accidents and their possible impacts, the directive requires the operator and the competent public authorities to set up a ‘major-accident prevention policy’. An appropriate application at national level of the directive would limit the potential impacts of this activity and contribute to the protection of the public health and the environment. As guardian of the Treaty, the Commission will continue to take all necessary measures within its remit to ensure that the directive is fully and correctly applied in practice.