grounds and to respect internationally recognised legal safeguards, inter alia with regard to persons belonging to religious and ethnic minorities, officially recognised or otherwise; 7. Expresses its concern about the use of violence and discrimination against women in Iran, which remains a serious problem despite the fact that some progress has been made; condemns the use of violence by the Iranian security forces against women who had gathered earlier this year to celebrate International Women's Day on 8 March 2006; condemns, furthermore, the Iranian security forces' violent disruption of a peaceful demonstration on 12 June 2006 by women and men advocating an end to legal discrimination against women in Iran; 8. Calls on the Islamic Republic of Iran to demonstrate a commitment to the EU-Iran Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms dialogue by agreeing to a future round of the dialogue at the earliest possible date; 9. Calls on the Commission and the Council to put the respect of human rights and the respect of religious and minority rights as priority and prerequisite for promoting a qualitative improvement of the EU Iran relations; 10. Calls on its Foreign Affairs Committee to consider, in its future reports and recommendations relative to Iran, the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms as the basic condition for progress in EU/ Iran economic and trade relations; 11. Calls on the Council and the Commission, in collaboration with the Member States, to monitor developments in Iran closely and to use every opportunity to convey to the Iranian authorities the EU's human rights concerns and also to raise concrete cases of human rights abuses; 12. Hopes that the setting-up of its inter-parliamentary delegation for relations with Iran will enable it to engage in productive discussions with the Iranian Parliament and also with Iranian civil society; 13. Calls on the Commission to make effective use of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights in order to intensify contacts and cooperation with Iranian civil society and independent media and furthermore to support, together with the European Parliament, democracy and respect for human rights in Iran; 14. Calls on the Commission to examine the possibility of the establishment and financing of a EU (European Parliament) Radio and TV broadcast in Farsi (Persian) language with the aim of broadcasting European news, European policies with regard to Iran and seeking to promote human and minority rights and support civil society, human right defenders and democratic forces in Iran; 15. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the CFSP High Representative, the Governments and Parliaments of the Member States, the Government and Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Iran and to the UN secretary general.