legal aid in crossborder cases throughout the Union. Common minimum standards should be laid down for multilingual forms or documents throughout the Union. (Amendment 5) Recital 5 (5) The Council adopted on 24 February 1997, Joint Action 97/154/JHA concerning action to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of children. (5) The Council adopted on 24 February 1997, pursuant to Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union, Joint Action 97/154/JHA concerning action to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of children. (Amendment 6) Recital 6 (6) The Council approved on 23 November 1995 a Resolution on the protection of witnesses in the fight against organised crime. (6) It should be noted that the Council approved on 23 November 1995 a Resolution on the protection of witnesses in the fight against organised crime. (Amendment 7) Recital 7 (7) Various instruments from international bodies already exist in this area: (7) It is necessary to recall the various instruments from international bodies which already exist in this area: - Recommendation No R (85) 11 of the Council of Europe on the position of the victim in the framework of criminal law and procedure, - Recommendation No R (85) 11 of the Council of Europe on the position of the victim in the framework of criminal law and procedure, - the European Convention on Compensation to Victims of Violent Crimes, signed in Strasbourg on 24 November 1983, - the European Convention on Compensation to Victims of Violent Crimes, signed in Strasbourg on 24 November 1983, - the Recommendation of the Council of Europe of 17 September 1987 on aid to victims and prevention of persecution, - Recommendation No R (99) 19 of the Committee of Ministers to Member States concerning mediation in penal matters, - Recommendation No R (99) 19 of the Committee of Ministers to Member States concerning mediation in penal matters, - the United Nations Declaration of basic principles of justice for victims of crime and abuse of power; - the United Nations Declaration of basic principles of justice for victims of crime and abuse of power , adopted in Resolution 40/34 of the UN General Assembly of 29 November 1985 , - the work of the European Forum for Victim Services, in particular the Statement of victims" rights in the process of criminal justice. - the work of the European Forum for Victim Services, in particular the Statement of victims" rights in the process of criminal justice. (Amendment 8) Recital 8 (8) The Member States should approximate their laws and regulations concerning criminal procedure, namely with respect to supporting victims of crime and taking specific account of the principles set out hereafter. (8) The Member States should , as a matter of urgency and necessity, approximate their laws and regulations concerning criminal and civil procedure, namely with respect to supporting victims of crime and taking specific account of the principles set out hereafter. (Amendment 11) Recital 11 (11) The provisions of this Framework Decision are confined to looking after victims" interests under criminal procedure. (11) The rules of this