Question for written answer E-5869/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Izaskun Bilbao Barandica (ALDE) (26 July 2010) Subject: Violation of property rights under the Spanish coastal law The implementation in Spain of the coastal law adopted by the national parliament is generating grave problems that are affecting approximately one million Spanish property owners and 80 000 citizens of other Member States. Starting from the principle that this law's declared objective, namely to fight property speculation and protect the coastline, is correct, it is necessary to denounce the way it is, de facto, converting owners of duly registered buildings and land into lessees, with no financial compensation of any kind. Apart from the primary and evident damage caused, these changes in ownership and use are affecting the productive fabric and are altering or eliminating the way of life of thousands of people. In addition, the disputes arising from these developments can drag on for as long as eight years on average, giving rise to huge bureaucratic costs. Article 17 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as well as Article 6 of the Treaty of Lisbon itself, lay down the right to property and specify the minimum conditions which should be met by an act of compulsory purchase: it should take place on the basis of a regulated procedure, and those whose property is compulsorily purchased must be paid sufficient compensation. Neither of these conditions is met by the procedures applied under Spain's so-called coastal law. In view of circumstances which are affecting approximately one million Spanish property owners, as well as 80 000 citizens of other Member States who have acquired property in Spain, can the Commission state: 1. whether it is aware that under the Spanish coastal law cases are occurring of transfer of ownership of land and buildings without proper compulsory purchase procedures and without payment of compensation; 2. whether it believes such practices are compatible with the provisions on the matter existing in the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union; 3. whether it is aware that in its application of this law the Spanish Government is, through administrative acts, declaring a series of constructions to be illegal and obliging the owners to prove the contrary by means of procedures which can take up to fifteen years; 4. whether it intends to undertake an investigation into developments which are affecting citizens of a number of Member States?