Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (12 October 2011) The recently adopted Directive 2010/63/EU on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes OJ L 276, 20.10.2010 ; http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2010:276:0033:0079:EN:PDF aims to strengthen, and significantly improve the legislation in the area of animal experimentation in the EU. The new legislation, which comes into effect on 1 January 2013, contains a number of measures designed to minimise, as far as possible, the use of non-human primates in scientific procedures. The use of non-human primates is subject to restrictions, and the scope of their use is limited. In addition, a focus has now been placed on reporting on developments in this area; it significantly improves the housing and care of non-human primates; and introduces a more stringent inspection regime. The legislation also introduces a ban on the use of great apes in scientific procedures. Only when survival of the species itself is at stake, or in the case of an unexpected outbreak of a life-threatening or debilitating disease in human beings, can a Member State exceptionally be granted permission for their use. A complete prohibition on the use of all non-human primates is not currently possible. Non-human primates are currently used for a number of vital research programmes on infectious diseases such as HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus. , malaria, hepatitis, and SARS Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome. . The Commission is closely monitoring scientific developments in this area and will examine them carefully should possibilities for phasing out the testing on non-human primates arise. The Commission invites the Honourable Member to take note of an Opinion from the Scientific Committee on Health and Environmental Risks (SCHER) http://ec.europa.eu/health/archive/ph_risk/committees/04_scher/docs/scher_o_110.pdf in January 2009 which confirmed the need, for the foreseeable future, of non-human primate use in biomedical research.