Mr MERRICKS had the following to say in his initial reaction to Lord NEILL's report (WE 87): " Lord Neill examined only 30 cases of the 8,000 that we have completed. These 30 cases were solicited by the Action Group which asked its members for instances where they believed they had had unsatisfactory outcomes. This was therefore an entirely unrepresentative sample from which to draw any generalisations. We could equally point to the very many consumers who have expressed gratitude for the way we have handled their complaints about Equitable. ... In an episode in which very many people have lost money not through their own fault, there will always be those who remain dissatisfied, and they are likely to magnify and distort their concerns about public institutions in order to secure redress for themselves from whatever source they can. They may even be tempted to launch unjustified criticisms in order to draw attention to their plight. Lord Neill's report, paid for and commissioned by the Action Group and focussing on a tiny unrepresentative sample of cases, should be seen in this context." The committee later received another response by the FOS in which it " rejects the main points which Lord Neill made in his opinion and oral evidence " (WE 90). Furthermore, it criticises the fact that " Lord Neill declined to receive information from FOS or to allow FOS to comment on the 'facts' in his report before it was published " In this respect Lord Neill's report states the following: " As regards the FSA and the FOS, I have had no communications with these authorities save that on 11 January 2007 the Chief Ombudsman wrote to offer me any assistance I needed in understanding the procedures of the FOS or other aspects of the way they work. I replied on 18 January 2007 thanking him for his offer but saying that I needed no assistance on the topics mentioned " (WE 83, pages 84 and 85). and claims that Lord Neill's conclusions and criticisms are " based on false assumptions ". Two " incorrect assumptions " are mentioned by the FOS as examples " In paragraph 85 Lord Neill says - “it is likely that [the chief ombudsman] will have been supplied with a copy of the [Penrose] Report shortly after it came into the hands of the Treasury on 23 December 2003”. In fact, neither the chief ombudsman nor anyone at FOS saw the Penrose Report until March 2004. In paragraph 98(7) Lord Neill says that the chief ombudsman failed to make available to complainants the FSA’s “Maxwellisation submission to Lord Penrose”, which Lord Neill assumed the chief ombudsman had received. In fact, neither the chief ombudsman nor anyone at FOS has ever seen this document " (WE 90). . It can be assumed, however, that if the two supposed errors had not occurred this would not have fundamentally altered Lord Neill's main conclusions. The FOS also underlined that it is truly independent and that Lord Neill failed to produce evidence to the contrary, " because