market shall notify the Commission. This notification shall include the information referred to in paragraph 2 and the summary dossier referred in paragraph 3(a) . 2. The application shall include the following: a) a list of ▐the Member States where the applicant has made an application; ▐ b) a certified copy of any authorisations already granted for that plant protection product in a Member State. 3. The application shall be accompanied by the following: a) for the plant protection product concerned, a complete and a summary dossier for each point of the data requirements of the plant protection product; b) for each active substance, safener and synergist, co-formulant and adjuvant contained in the plant protection product, a complete and a summary dossier for each point of the data requirements of the active substance, safener and synergist, co-formulant and adjuvant , as well as a complete and summary dossier on the combined effect of the active substance(s), safener(s) and synergist(s), co-formulant(s) and adjuvant(s) contained in the plant protection product; c) for each test or study involving vertebrate animals, a justification of the steps taken to avoid animal testing and duplicative testing on vertebrate animals ; d) the reasons why the test and study reports submitted are necessary for first authorisation or for amendments to the conditions of the authorisation. 4. When submitting his application, the applicant may, pursuant to Article 66 , request that certain parts of the dossiers referred to in paragraph 3 are to be kept confidential. He shall explain for each document or each part of a document why it is to be considered as confidential. He shall at the same time submit any claims for data protection pursuant to Article 62(4). After giving the applicant the possibility to submit comments on the decision it plans to adopt, the rapporteur Member State shall decide what information is to be kept confidential. It shall inform the applicant and the Authority of its decision. 5. Where requested by the Member State the applicant shall submit his application in the national or official languages of that Member State or one of those languages. On request, the applicant shall provide the Member States involved in the assessment with samples of the plant protection product and analytical standards of its ingredients. 6. On request, the applicant shall provide any other Member States with the complete dossier referred to in paragraph 3(a). 7. Application forms shall be standard in all Member States. Article 34 Exemption 1. Applicants shall be exempted from supplying the test and study reports referred to in Article 33 (3) where they demonstrate that they have been granted access in accordance with Article 62, 64 or 65 or that any data protection period has expired. 2. However, applicants to whom paragraph 1 applies shall provide the following information: a) the information needed to identify the active substance, safener or synergist, where they have been approved, and to establish whether the conditions for approval are met and comply with Article 30 (1)(b), where appropriate; b) the data needed to demonstrate that the plant protection