only if the infringement has affected individual rights and there is a direct causal link with the damage sustained by the injured party. Recent ECJ rulings appear to have further weakened supervisory liability, asserting supervisory authorities' responsibility to act 'only in the public interest' , meaning that supervising functions are to be fulfilled to protect a plurality of interests rather than the interests of any particular group of investors see ECJ ruling in case C-222/02 Peter Paul et al. v Germany, 12 October 2004. . Following the publication of the Penrose Report in 2004, a legal study see WE71: the legal advice was given by UK law firm Herbert Smith in a letter to the directors of EL on 14.4.2004, and considered potential claims against prudential regulators (based on ICA 82) and against CoB regulators (based on FSA 86), including claims in respect of the breach of 'enforceable private rights' arising from the 3 EC Life Directives. assessed the chances of claims by EL or by its individual policyholders against UK regulators, based on their regulatory failings, as highlighted in Chapter 19 of the Report. The conclusions were not encouraging as far as possible legal action is concerned, stating quite clearly that " the Society has no realistic claims against the regulators". Claims of 'common law negligence' or 'breach of statutory duty' by the prudential regulators were considered too weak, as " it cannot be said that the regulator failed to consider whether to exercise its powers of intervention under the ICA 1982 or that no rational prudential regulator could have acted in the way it did; and further, the ICA 1982 does not confer private law remedies on the Society ." As to potential claims of 'misfeasance in public office' , it concluded that " there is nothing... to suggest that any one or more of the individuals employed by the prudential regulators exercised power unlawfully, specifically intending to injure the Society, or with reckless indifference to the possibility of such injury. There does not appear to be any realistic prospect of such evidence emerging." Finally, no arguments were found supporting legal action by policyholders against the CoB regulators, claiming 'breach of human rights' or 'bad faith'. An outsider chance was seen only for a " potentially arguable claim on the part of policyholders for breach of the Third Life Directive, in respect of the arguably excessive value ascribed to the reinsurance treaty in the Society’s technical provisions", however highlighting the " uncertainty regarding the merits of a novel claim of this sort" and concluding that there would likely be " numerous complex causation and loss issues, a lengthy and costly litigation, leaving it unclear as to what extent the Society might ever benefit financially from such a claim ." (WE71) III. Key findings of the Penrose and Baird reports on Insurance Regulators 1. The Baird Report (October 2001) The Baird Report was an internal audit commissioned by the FSA and therefore focuses mainly on its own specific role in the assessment of the Equitable Life case. However, it contains findings