the Member State of origin pursuant to Article 56 or 57. Subsection 6 Derogations Article 56 Emergency situations 1. By way of derogation from Article 29 , in special circumstances a Member State may authorise, for a period not exceeding 120 days, the placing on the market of plant protection products, for limited and controlled use, where such a measure appears necessary because of a danger to plant health which cannot be contained by any other reasonable means. The Member State concerned shall immediately inform the other Member States and the Commission of the measure taken, providing detailed information about the situation and any measures taken to ensure consumer safety. 2. The Commission may ask the Authority for an opinion, or for scientific or technical assistance. The Authority shall provide its opinion or the results of its work to the Commission within one month of the request. 3. If necessary, a decision shall be taken, in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83 (3), as to a) whether the treated crop may be safely marketed, and b) whether and under what conditions the Member State i) may extend the duration of the measure or repeat it; or ii) shall withdraw or amend its measure. 4. Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall not apply to plant protection products containing or composed of genetically modified micro-organisms. Article 57 Research and development 1. By way of derogation from Article 29 , experiments or tests for research or development purposes involving the release into the environment of an unauthorised plant protection product may be carried out if the Member State in whose territory the experiment or test is to be carried out has assessed the available data and granted an authorisation for trial purposes. Any such experiments or tests must be very strictly controlled to ensure that there will be no immediate or delayed harmful effect on human health, including residents and bystanders and vulnerable groups, such as babies, children, pregnant women, the elderly, people who are ill and those taking medication, or animal health, directly or through drinking water, food, feed or air, including in locations distant from its use following long-range transportation, or consequences in the workplace or through other indirect effects, taking into account cumulative and synergistic effects; or on groundwater. The authorisation may limit the quantities to be used and the areas to be treated and may impose further conditions to prevent any harmful effects on human or animal health or any unacceptable adverse effect on the environment, such as the need to prevent entry into the food chain of feed and food containing residues unless a relevant provision has already been established under Regulation (EC) No 396/2005. The Member State may authorise a programme of experiments or tests in advance or require an authorisation for each experiment or test. 2. An application shall be submitted to the Member State in whose territory the experiment or test is to be conducted, together with a dossier containing all the available data to permit an assessment of possible effects on human or