Science and New Technologies (EGE), an independent advisory group, with the mandate to advise the Commission on ethical questions relating to sciences and new technologies, at the request of the Commission or on its own initiative (EC(2009)10353). On 22 March 2011, the President of the Commission requested the EGE to issue an opinion on the ethical implications of Information Communication Technology (ICT) and an opinion on the ethical implications of security technologies. Following the last Competiveness Council on the Euratom Programme, the Commission is considering to ask the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies to contribute to the debate on a sustainable energy mix in Europe by issuing an opinion on the ethical impact of research on different energy sources on human wellbeing. The Commission is currently looking into ERAB's 2010 recommendation that scientists sign an ethics code when starting their graduate studies. According to the ‘Green Paper on the European Research Area: New Perspectives’ (2007) COM(2007)161 final. : ‘besides the pursuit of scientific excellence, European research should experiment with new ways of involving society at large in the definition, implementation and evaluation of research agendas and of promoting responsible scientific and technological progress, within a framework of common basic ethical principles and on the basis of agreed practices that can inspire the rest of the world’. The Chief Scientific Adviser (CSA) will provide advice directly to the President of the Commission, and through him to the College, equipping the Commission also with regular updates on major scientific and technological developments which may have an influence on EU policies and the decision making process. The CSA will report directly to the President of the Commission while the administrative support will be provided by the Bureau of European Policy Advisers (BEPA). Foresight and participatory technology assessment are increasingly used in policy design and decision making. Given the fragmentation of such activities in Europe, the Europe 2020 flagship initiative Innovation Union (commitment No 8) foresees the creation of the European Forum on Forward Looking Activities (EFFLA) in order to enhance collective intelligence and help devise better European policies and research & innovation policies in particular. EFFLA will bring together existing studies and data and involve public and private stakeholders to improve the evidence base of policies.