which is used to provide a decorative, protective or other functional effect on a surface; 7. coating means any preparation, including all the organic solvents or preparations containing organic solvents necessary for its proper application, which is used to provide a film with decorative, protective and/or other specific effects on a surface; Justification This amendment clarifies the way in which the coating achieves its protective and/or decorative effects, i.e. by forming a film on a particular surface, thereby distinguishing it from other types of applications such as wood preservatives. Amendment 15 Article 3 Member States shall ensure that only products set out in Annex I with a VOC content not exceeding the values set out in Annex II shall be placed on the market within their territory after the dates laid down in that Annex. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 1, Member States shall ensure that only products set out in Annex I with a VOC content not exceeding the values set out in Annex II shall be produced for the internal market or imported within their territory after the dates laid down in that Annex. Coating materials produced for the export to non-member countries are not concerned. Justification Member States should have an unquestioned right to maintain or introduce higher standards than those fixed in this Directive, provided those measures relate to one of the exemptions specifically allowed in the Treaty and do not represent a deliberate and unjustified restraint of trade. By obliging Member States to inform the Commission of any measures which go beyond the requirements of this Directive, this amendment seeks to reconcile a high standard of workers' protection with the smooth functioning of the internal market.The monitoring required of the Member States must be feasible in practice; the Commission proposal entails screening the whole commercial chain (distribution channels and points of sale), which would impose a very heavy administrative burden. It is therefore proposed that the problem be tackled at source, by requiring checks on production for the internal market as from the dates indicated in Annex II. To ensure a level playing field for coatings produced in Community territory, imported coatings should be subject to the same provisions. For export to non-member states of the EU the proposed directive must not be applied since manufacturers/exporters from EU countries would not be able to compete successfully in the non-member countries. Amendment 16 Article 3, 1st paragraph (a) (new) Existing or new measures taken at national or Community level to protect their health of workers and their environment and which provide a higher level of protection than achieved by this Directive shall not be affected. Justification Several Member States have legislation on the use of volatile organic compounds in the working environment. Some of these provisions afford a higher level of protection for workers than will be achieved by this Directive. Harmonisation at Community level must not result in workers in certain Member States being given health protection of a lower standard than was the case before harmonisation. Consequently, more stringent legislative provisions should not be