Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (20 September 2010) The European Union is one of the major donors providing official development assistance to Afghanistan. Under the current Multi-Annual Indicative Programme (MIP) 2007‑10, the EU provides support in three focal sectors (Rural Development, Governance and Health). These sectors are complemented by actions related to social protection, mine action and regional cooperation. All new commitments are approved by the Member States via the Development Cooperation Instrument (DCI) Committee and are subject to the scrutiny of Parliament. EU assistance is provided by the following means (selected inter alia to safeguard control over use of funds): Contribution Agreements with international organisations, either for specific individual projects, for multi-donor projects or for multi-purpose trust funds such as the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). In total, some 30 EU contracts relating to Afghanistan are currently running with International Organisations, for a total amount of EUR 298 million. A Framework Agreement between the EU and the United Nations (UN) system which allows the Commission to accept the validity of external audits by UN organisations and allows the Commission to implement additional ad hoc verification missions. Recently, the Commission has undertaken verification missions for two Multi Donor Trust Funds — ARTF (Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund) administered by the World Bank and LOTFA (Law and Order Trust Fund) administered by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). So far, all those audits and verifications have been satisfactory. The Commission participates in programme steering committees and joint evaluation missions with other donors. Similar arrangements are made with the World Bank and the UN for Trust Funds to which the Commission contributes. A recent review of the ARTF has confirmed that the level of fiduciary arrangements for donor resources is satisfactory. When the EU does not engage with international organisations, it keeps contracting and payment procedures under centralised management, i.e. managed by the relevant EU Delegation (there are very limited cases of decentralised management). The EU is aligning its support behind national development programmes and in that framework is seeking to contribute to improving public finance management and capacity of the Afghan Government. The Commission also ensures monitoring of its development cooperation, through visits on the spot, annual results-oriented missions, audits and evaluations. All these are performed on a regular basis. Recent independent monitoring reports of EU bilaterally-funded projects are overall encouraging. The above arrangements ensure a high degree of fiduciary reliability. However, weak government structures and high and increasing levels of insecurity make Afghanistan a high-risk environment in which to operate. In addition, increased insecurity hampers on-the-spot monitoring of projects due to travel restrictions within the country. More information on EU assistance in Afghanistan can be found in the State of Play report which is regularly produced for Parliament and which is available on the website of the EU Delegation in Kabul: http://www.delafg.ec.europa.eu/en/index.htm