WRITTEN QUESTION E-5090/06 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (24 November 2006) Subject: Replacing petroleum as fuel for cars by importing vegetable oil produced from increased CO2 emissions from tropical peatlands 1. Is the Commission aware that a study by Delft Hydraulics — which is, inter alia , a hydrodynamics laboratory — for a report by the environmental organisation Wetlands International, published on 31 October 2006 during the climate talks in Nairobi, shows that not only are humous peatlands being drained, but that subsequently, because of fires and other forms of oxidation, the thick fertile layer of old plant material is quickly destroyed, as a result of which 2000 million tonnes of CO2 more a year is now being emitted? 2. Is the Commission aware that this new source of emissions makes a relatively large addition to the global emission volume of 26000 million tonnes and that as a result, in the ranking of greenhouse gas producing states, Indonesia moves up from twenty-first to third place, behind the US and China? 3. Is the Commission aware that the purpose of this environmental devastation is to establish oil palm plantations on the land concerned in order to export palm oil as a fuel for vehicles, in particular, which should be more beneficial for climate conservation than fossil fuels, but that it has been calculated that, for every tonne of palm oil produced in this way, 20 tonnes of CO2 are released? 4. Does the Commission agree that producing biofuel in this way makes not the slightest positive contribution towards combating the greenhouse effect, but, rather, results in quite the reverse, and that this makes it undesirable to promote the use of that oil as a fuel for cars in Europe? 5. Does the Commission recall its answer dated 29 November 2005, to my questions in E‑3106/05, stating that, over the past decade, it had provided Indonesia with more than EUR 100 million in financial support for sustainable forest management, in the expectation that cooperation could be continued with a view to the sustainable management of the country's remaining forests, and that it was of concern if investment ran contrary to the principles of sustainable management and led to widespread environmental degradation? 6. What have the contacts with, and support for, Indonesia achieved in the meantime with regard to combating a palm oil production method which, in terms of climate protection, is wrong? 7. What scope does the Commission see for reducing consumption of petroleum products, or the use of electricity and water, as a result of which the need for palm oil imports can be greatly reduced? Source: the Dutch newspaper ‘ De Volkskrant ’, 4 November 2006.