Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (29 April 2008) The Commission is aware of the danger for health of particulates and in particular fine particulates. A thematic strategy on air pollution was adopted in 2005 as well as a proposal for a directive on ambient air quality COM(2005)447, provisional version. , which has been adopted on 14 April 2008. The latter proposed new air quality objectives and monitoring requirements for PM 2.5 (fine particles). Moreover , the revision of the directive Council Directive 96/61/EC of 24 September 1996 concerning integrated pollution prevention and control, OJ L 257, 10.10.1996. on integrated pollution prevention and control (IPPC) and the revision of the legislation on national emission ceilings should also substantially reduce the pollution by particulate matter. Finally, the Commission is committed through the Transport priority of the 7th Research Framework Programme, to support research addressing all aspects of greening of transport, including technologies and knowledge for reduced pollution and environmental impact on such areas as climate change and health. Concerning motor vehicles, the Commission initially focused on diesel cars and trucks given the size of the fleet of these vehicles compared to two-wheelers. Hence, a new regulation on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (Euro 5 and Euro 6) was adopted by Parliament and the Council in 2007 Regulation (EC) No 715/2007 of Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2007 on type approval of motor vehicles with respect to emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles (Euro 5 and Euro 6) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information, OJ L 171, 29.6.2007. . This regulation will reduce the emission of particulate matter from diesel cars from 25 mg/km to 5 mg/km. Furthermore, the Commission adopted on 21 December 2007 a proposal COM(2007)851 final. for a regulation on emissions from heavy duty vehicles (Euro VI). The Euro VI proposal foresees a reduction of 80 % in nitrogen oxides (NOx) and 66 % in particulate matters emissions compared to the Euro V stage limits. With regard to two-wheel motor vehicles, only two-stroke engines are an issue with regard to particulates. Four–stroke engines have particulate matters emissions very low compared to diesel cars. A study was granted by the Commission in 2004 to know whether a specific proposal on particulate matters from two-stroke engines would be useful. The study showed that particulate matters from two-stroke engines are primarily Hydrocarbons. Since emission limits for Hydrocarbons from mopeds and motorcycles have been greatly strengthened in 2004 and 2007, the situation for new vehicles has greatly improved. Furthermore, in order to meet the Hydrocarbons emission limits, manufacturers tend to replace two-stroke engines by four-stoke engines. Consequently, no specific measures on particulate matters from two-wheelers have been proposed. Currently, the situation is therefore more critical for old two-stroke vehicles which emit much more Hydrocarbons and particulate matters. However, their emissions can be greatly improved by using synthetic oil instead of mineral oil for the engine. That is the reason why the Commission supported the awareness campaign promoting the use of synthetic oil