correction system as proposed by the Commission in July: "The correction system which favours one country has now been in force for twenty years. It is time to remedy that, while maintaining a reasonable attitude." The future of cohesion policy and the Structural Funds Another fundamental element in the proposals of the outgoing Commission for the next financial framework entails stepping up cohesion policy. The ceiling of 4% of the GNI of the State concerned for financial transfers under cohesion policy is preserved. This 4% figure presents a problem between the "old" and "new" Member States. "Can the ceiling not be exceeded?" asked Barbara DÜHRKOP DÜHRKOP (PES, ES), mentioning the example of Ireland, where prosperity had been successfully generated. The Commissioner-designate replied that "the 4% figure is not a dogma, and it must be possible to discuss it openly and with a certain degree of flexibility" . With regard to the division between the old and new Member States, "obviously it is necessary to take account of the absorption capacity of the new Member States for the Structural Funds" , she said to Dariusz GRABOWSKI (IND/DEM, PL). In the same context, the question of the use of the Structural Funds as a whole was also debated. Underspending of the available Community funds - a constant problem in this field - made a "bad impression on citizens" , said Simon BUSUTTIL (EPP-ED, MT). "The situation is changing" , was the Commissioner-designate's response; indeed, she described the situation as "revolutionary" : the current implementation of the budget for 2004 showed that the funds would probably be insufficient, which indicated that "mentalities are changing and that the efforts which have been made are finally bearing fruit (particularly as regards the n+2 rule)" . Mrs Grybauskaitė nonetheless had a message for the Member States, which in some cases are jointly responsible for managing Community funding and are hence partly responsible for this underspending. A new accounting system to reduce fraud "As from January, the Commission will have a new accounting system which will make it the best equipped public institution in this field" , Mrs Grybauskaitė explained in reply to questioning by Szabolcs FAZAKAS (PES, HU), chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control. This will reduce the risk of internal abuses, while "good cooperation with Mr Siim Kallas" (Commissioner responsible for administrative affairs, audit and combating fraud - ed.) and the "spirit of mutual cooperation with OLAF (the European Anti-Fraud Office) which has prevailed for the past two years" will make it possible to achieve progress in fighting external fraud, particularly with regard to the implementation of the budget by Member States' entities. Lastly, it came as no surprise that Mrs Grybauskaitė wished to maintain the "close relations" which existed between Parliament and the Commission with regard to budgetary matters. Ralf WALTER (PES, DE) was concerned that the Lithuanian Commissioner-designate's past as a Minister of Finance might result in different treatment of the two arms of the budgetary authority. "The other side of the barrier may be more familiar to me but I shall treat the