MEPs under threat of assassination Institutions 2009-11-13 - 09:02 A rare sight in the European Parliament, a Member accompanied by a bodyguard Greek MEP Marietta Giannakou - even 4 bombs on her doorstep have not deterred her Carlos José Iturgaiz: Basque separatist terrorist group ETA put a bomb in a cemetery he was visiting to try and kill him Anti-Mafia Sicilian Mayor turned MEP Rosario Crocetta has survived 3 attempts on his life At least three members of the current European Parliament are living under the threat of being killed for their political views. We spoke to Italian anti-mafia MEP Rosario Crocetta, former Greek reformist Education Minister Marietta Giannakou and Spaniard Carlos Iturgaiz who has taken on the Basque separatist terrorist movement ETA. They talk about repeated assassination attempts, and the toll life under threat takes on their family lives. Rosario Crocetta MEP: Fighting the Mafia "It's not a threat, it's like being condemned to death," says former Sicilian Mayor Rosario Crocetta. When he became mayor of Gela in 2003 he conducted an unprecedented fight against the Mafia: "I revoked big contracts, started to control sub-contractors and asked for a confidential dossier on the possible mafia connections of each company participating in public tenders. I even stopped the construction of the new Courthouse, worth €50 million, because I discovered that there were infiltrations. That was completely new. " After 9 months in the job, the police intercepted a phone call in which a local "entrepreneur" was plotting to kill the Mayor. Fear didn't stop Mr Crocetta: "More than 120 people denounced intimidation and extortion and we contributed to the arrest of 950 Mafiosi. I even fired the wife of a local boss working in the municipality. That was the worse insult for them. " Reaction from the Mafia to this slight was quick: "On 8 February 2008, my birthday, I received a phone call from the police informing me of the third attempt to kill me." The threat didn't end with the Mayor's mandate: "The Mafia has a long memory. The last assassination attempt against me was in April this year. " "The mafia is an international organisation" He feels vulnerable in Belgium, where he doesn't have a bodyguard. "The Belgian authorities say I'm not under risk when I'm here, I hope they're right. But the mafia is an international organisation. " He goes on, "You have to give up your normal life. I had to give up my new car, because there was the risk of exploding together with it. I live 300 metres from the sea, but I can't swim anymore. I can't go out for an ice-cream. I can't even go out on my balcony." He keeps fighting against the mafia in his new role as an MEP. He asked Parliament's President Jerzy Buzek to create a special committee "to understand the state of the art of mafias in Europe" warning that special attention is needed during the crisis. "The main problem for companies nowadays is credit. Criminal organisations have big liquidity, so they can unfairly compete with legal