livestock's feeding needs; - bringing CAP aids forward to September. 7. Asks, in the framework of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, for application to the operational programmes for 2006 of Article 4(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1433/2003 in order to ensure a minimum value for marketable production of 65% of the value for the earlier reference period; 8. Calls on the Commission, in the context of the reform of the COM in fruit and vegetables, to introduce as much flexibility as possible into the rules for calculating the Community contribution to the operational funds in cases of climate disaster, with a view to discounting, for several consecutive marketing years, the loss of turnover suffered by producers' organisations; 9. Favours, in addition, modifying the operational programmes with a view to taking account of production costs relating to replanting or to compensating for a reduction in planned investment; 10. Advocates, for lemon cultivation and in the face of the expected loss of a large part of the harvest, eliminating the sanctions for failing to observe a contract with the processing sector, since the frosts are a case of force majeure and must be recognised as such; 11. Calls on the Commission to authorise the granting of loans and special credits on a zero-interest basis, as well as bonuses in respect of amortisations and an initial grace period; 12. Calls on the Commission to activate the exceptional measures provided for under the COMs for the different forms of meat production, with a view to compensating the stockbreeders affected by the immobilisation of livestock in the wake of the 'blue tongue' outbreak; 13. Urges the Commission to consider introducing specific Community legislation in order to tackle the agricultural fuel crisis and encourage the use of biofuels, thus reducing the Union's present high dependency on oil; 14. Calls for more resources for combating forest fires and for a properly organised Community strategy for dealing with a problem which is being made worse by the drought; 15. Calls on the Commission to submit a report with a view to implementing an integrated policy to combat the effects of climate change; 16. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the Spanish government and the regional authorities responsible for the areas affected.