Reply (1 June 2006) A number of measures have been taken in the field of combating sex offences. Already in 1997, the Council adopted a joint action (97/154/JHA) concerning action to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation of children OJ L 63, 4.3.1997, p. 2 . . That instrument provided as a first step certain more limited measures on substantive criminal law and cooperation in criminal matters and has since been replaced by more far-reaching instruments. In July 2002, the Council adopted a framework decision (2002/629/JHA) on combating trafficking in human beings OJ L 203, 1.8.2002, p. 1 . . This instrument provides for penalties regarding trafficking in human beings for the purpose of sexual exploitation and provides for a particularly high level of criminal law protection for children — persons below the age of 18 years. In addition, the Council adopted in December 2003 the framework decision (2004/68/JHA) on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography OJ L 13, 20.1.2004, p. 13 . . This instrument provides for an obligation for Member States to make defined child sex offences punishable under their criminal law and to provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal sanctions. In certain aggravating circumstances, it must be possible to impose at least five years of imprisonment. Both framework decisions contain provisions on the liability of and sanctions for legal persons for certain cases where the offences mentioned are committed for their benefit. The instruments also contain provisions on jurisdiction and assistance to victims. More directly related to your question, the Council is at present examining a proposal made by Belgium for a framework decision on the recognition and enforcement in the European Union of prohibitions arising from convictions for sexual offences committed against children. The intention with this proposal is to ensure as far as possible that prohibitions pronounced in one Member State against child sex offenders have an effect also in other Member States. The Council is still reflecting on how best to meet the objectives of the proposal. The Council is also examining a proposal by the Commission for a framework decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records between Member States. This proposal supplements the Council Decision (2005/876/JHA) of 21 November 2005 on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal record OJ L 322, 09.12.2005, p. 33 . . Finally, the Council is examining a proposal by the Commission for a framework decision on taking account of convictions in the Member States of the European Union in the course of new criminal proceedings. Although a specific EU‑wide register for sex offenders is not envisaged, the measures proposed would increase the possibility of drawing consequences in one Member State of convictions and disqualifications regarding offences, including sex offences, pronounced in other Member States.