Authority (ATA), but they call on the ATA to " regularly, publicly and unequivocally " condemn violence against women and girls. The report also urges the Council and the Commission to assist the ATA in setting up a country-wide system of safe shelters and support services to protect women and girls from further oppression. MEPs express support for the new Constitution adopted on 4 January by the Loya Jirga (Grand Tribal Council), which includes a specific reference to the equal treatment of men and women. They remain concerned, however, about a number of issues, such as limitations on the right of freedom of expression and freedom of religion. They also point out that the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) cannot bring human rights violations to court. Another cause for concern is the fact that among the constitutional Loya Jirga members are commanders and warlords who may reject anything which they see as strengthening the central government. Regarding the deteriorating security situation, which is the main threat to the population, MEPs warn against the use of excessive force by the US army against potential 'terrorist' targets, resulting in the deaths of civilians, including children. Parliament considers that these operations may lead to the Afghan people rejecting the process of democratisation and normalisation. Parliament also believes that the lower amount foreseen in the EU's 2004 budget for Afghanistan (compared to 2003) sends the wrong signal to the Afghan government and people. MEPs call for more funds to be allocated to the ATA's recurrent budget and ask the Commission to consider setting up a European Agency for Reconstruction in Afghanistan, on the lines of the agency working in Kosovo. Finally, MEPs express their concern at the huge recent increase in illicit opium production in Afghanistan, which fuels the power and role of the warlords. According to a survey by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in 2003 Afghanistan produced three-quarters of the world's illicit opium, and the income of Afghan opium farmers and traffickers was about $2.3 billion, which is the equivalent of half the legitimate GDP of the country. MEPs believe consideration should be given to the entire opium crop being purchased and destroyed using international donor funds and funds saved as a result of this action from international drug law enforcement agencies. Press enquiries: Joëlle Fiss (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73840 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 41075 e-mail : foreign-press@europarl.eu.int Human Rights Human rights and democracy in Mediterranean countries Motion for a resolution on reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean part ners Doc.: B5-0049/2004 Debate: 12.02.2004 Vote: 12.02.2004 Vote Parliament adopted a resolution welcoming the Communication from the Commission on ‘Reinvigorating EU actions on human rights and democratisation with Mediterranean partners’ and expressing its support for its ten priority actions, while calling on the Commission to make an annual report on their implementation. MEPs maintain that civil society should be given a central role in the partnership with the Mediterranean countries and call for the implementation of policies aimed at creating a rich social fabric. Parliament insists that there