on to make a full analysis of this problem and to submit a report to the EP and the Council; this report should in particular deal with the relations between EU businesses and flag-of-convenience states. Prestige disaster Parliament deplores the decision taken by the Spanish authorities to tow the Prestige away from the Galician coast. It voices concern at the statement by the Spanish government commissioner, Mr Fernández, that if an identical disaster were to happen the same decision would be taken again. Although the sealing operation to stop oil leaking from the wreck of the Prestige and the specific plans for making the wreck safe are welcomed, the committee calls on the competent authorities to continue their efforts to tackle the problem of the oil still present in the sea and the thousands of tonnes of waste in landfills. MEPs say the authorities should put forward a detailed calendar for the extraction and the treatment of the waste. They also urge that the expertise gained in the process be made widely available and used in tackling any further accidents. It is still completely unclear how much oil remains in the coastal waters of Galicia. Before the disaster, there were 77,000 tonnes of heavy oil on board the Prestige. It is estimated that 14,000 tonnes remain, some 43,000 tonnes having been washed up and/or cleaned up, according to the Spanish authorities' statistics. This still leaves 20,000 tonnes unaccounted for. MEPs voice deep concern in their report that these 20,000 tonnes could still be a threat to the marine environment and the coast. Moreover, the captain estimated that 2,000-3,000 tonnes of fuel were shed immediately after the initial damage to the Prestige, whereas the estimate of the Spanish authorities was that approximately 10,000 tonnes were lost. The Spanish judicial authorities are called on to allow Captain Mangouras to return to his country pending his trial, to relax the requirement that he report daily to the authorities and to clarify as soon as possible the starting date and timetable for the legal case against him. A delegation of the committee went to Barcelona in February to meet the captain, as he was not given permission to appear before Parliament at a public hearing. Further recommendations include a call for more powers for the European Agency for Maritime Safety, improved working conditions and safety for seafarers and better protection of the Baltic waters, given that many Russian oil tankers do not meet EU safety standards. MEPs also propose equipping dangerous goods containers with electronic transponders, as these containers could then be easily found in a sunken vessel. Speaking for the rapporteur, Herman VERMEER (ELDR, NL) said that the Temporary Committee had set an important step towards a safer sea. He hoped that the implementation of these recommendations would prevent more Erika and Prestige disasters in the near future. Press enquiries: Ton Huyssoon (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73856 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42408 e-mail : region-press@europarl.eu.int Safer road tunnels Reinhard RACK (EPP-ED, A) Report on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on