European financial markets, which in some instances has been accelerated by the introduction of the euro and the single monetary policy. Further integration has meant closer linkages among financial institutions, markets and market infrastructures. In a situation of stress, it is increasingly likely that contagion will spread across national borders, which also means that systemic risk may assume a euro area dimension. The EU and the euro area should therefore have appropriate arrangements in place for monitoring and containing possible threats to financial stability, where the contribution of the Eurosystem is also acknowledged. As for the publication of its financial stability reports, the ECB produces once a year a comprehensive financial stability review, whose main objective is to provide a review of risks and sources of vulnerabilities relating to the euro area/EU financial system. In addition, regular updates are produced on main risk to financial stability, covering the same scope as the annual review, while being focused on recent changes. These documents support an assessment of financial stability by the ECB Governing Council. They are also shared regularly with relevant EU bodies and international fora . Whether or not it is appropriate for the ECB to publish either regular broader reports on financial stability or a financial stability review is an issue that could be examined by the Executive Board and the Governing Council. Finally, as for the statutory responsibilities of the Eurosystem in the fields of banking and financial supervision and its advisory functions, they are provided by Article 105 of the Treaty and the ECB/ESCB Statute. In particular , the Eurosystem has the task of contributing to the smooth conduct of policies pursued by the competent authorities relating to the prudential supervision of credit institutions and the stability of the financial system. On the other hand, the ECB must be consulted on any draft Community and national legislation in the fields of banking supervision and financial stability , and can propose, on its own initiative, advice on the scope and implementation of the European legislation in these areas. With regard to the conduct of banking supervision in the single market, the basic principles of home country control and mutual recognition have been effective, also favouring significant progresses towards integration. An integrated market does not necessarily call for centralised supervision or absolute uniformity of rules; on the contrary, some degree of regulatory competition may prove healthy. However, it has to be recognised that excessive discrepancies in national rules are costly to banking and financial organisations. C. Functioning of the ECB and other questions 12. How do you perceive the internal balance and the repartition of functions and roles between the different members of the Executive Board, and in particular, the President, the Vice-President and the Chief economist of the ECB? The President of the ECB has been assigned the specific responsibility of chairing the Executive Board and the Governing and General Councils according to Art 13 of the Statute of the ESCB and the ECB. The same Article also refers to the same responsibilities for the Vice-President acting on the President’s