years, now point to the need for a qualitative leap in the form of a Strategic Partnership between Mexico and the EU. Me xico in the global context With a population of over 100 m and 45% of its inhabitants aged under 20, Mexico is one of Latin America's demographic heavyweights. Mexico's geographical location gives it a geostrategic role as a bridge both between North and South America and between the Caribbean and the Pacific. This geostrategic factor is reinforced by Mexico's more than 40 trade agreements concluded with different countries or regions. These include, notably, NAFTA (with the US and Canada), agreements with Japan and Australia, and the wide-ranging partnership agreement with the EU. Mexico has become a leading economy at world level, and the EU has in recent years become Mexico's second partner after the US. Mexico is, like the EU, fully committed to the UN system as the framework best able to ensure peace and security in the world. This commitment is manifested in Mexico's nomination, for the fourth time in its history, as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2009-2010, as also in its various contributions to the work of the UN, including: · peaceful conflict and crisis resolution; · the fight against apartheid; · promoting disarmament, notably in the Treaty of Tlatelolco; · adoption of the Charter on the Economic Rights and Duties of States; · support for the UN General Assembly's Special Session on drugs, highlighting the shared responsibility of the international community; · the preparation and promotion of an international convention on protecting the rights of migrant workers and their relatives; · the International Conference on Development Funding; · the Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. In addition, Mexico's financial contribution to the UN's general budget accounts for more than half of the total contribution of Latin America, making Mexico the world's tenth-biggest contributor National Development Plan - official site of the Presidency, Mexico 2008. . Mexico, as a member of a number of international and regional bodies, plays a leading role in the political and economic spheres. It is a very active UN member and an integral member of the main Latin America political dialogue forums, including the Rio Group, whose Pro-Tempore Presidency it currently occupies (for 2008-2010). As the world's tenth-biggest economy, Mexico is a member of the G-20, the G-8+G-5, the WTO and the IMF. It is also the only Latin American OECD member. On the environment, Mexico has signed the main international conventions, such as the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the Kyoto Protocol and the Bali Action Plan. It shares the EU's belief that climate change needs to be tackled on a basis of shared but differentiated responsibility. From Global Agreement to Strategic Partnership Mexico and the EU have maintained cooperation relations since the 1970s, as embodied in the signing of the Framework Cooperation Agreement between Mexico and what was then the EEC. These relations were institutionalised and expanded with the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement (the 'Global Agreement'), signed on 8