Briefing : 23-09-2004(b) Brussels, 23 September 2004 "There is a human rights problem in Chechnya", says President Putin's adviser "The fight against terrorism does not exclude the respect for human rights, but, in practice the principles are not always compatible" . The Chechen Conflict was the centre-piece of the debate between the Foreign Affairs Committee and Sergey YASTRZHEMBSKIY, adviser to President Putin, who recognised that there was "a problem". According to the Russian adviser, growing illiteracy and violence in the region had produced a "younger generation of Chechens who do not distinguish properly between 'good' and 'evil'" . Nevertheless "the federal forces have also c!ommitted a number of sins in trying to restore order" , he acknowledged, adding that "dozens of soldiers and officers have been sentenced for their actions. There is certainly a human rights problem" , he said. These violations represent a major obstacle to the strengthening of a true EU-Russia partnership. Willy MEYER PLEITE (GUE/NGL, ES) asked about the role played by Russian forces at the end of the hostage crisis. Armin LASCHET (EPP-ED, DE) wondered about the involvement of international terrorist networks in the hostage taking at the school in Beslan. "The French, German and American Secret Services have proved the link which exists between Chechen and international terrorists. The latter have been trained in Chechen camps under the leadership of Aslan Maskhadov. There can be no negotiations with him" , replied Mr Yastrzhembskiy. Other subjects of concern for MEPs were the fact that no agreement had yet been ratified on the line of the frontiers between Russia on the one side and Estonia and Latvia on the other. "Let us remember that there is still no border between Russia and the EU, as Russia has not signed the agreement" , said Toomas Hendrik ILVES (PES, ET). "We can only negotiate on the status of Russian speakers in the EU when Russia has signed the agreement" , said Alexander LAMBSDORFF GRAF (ALDE/ADLE, DE) Lastly, Mr Yastrzhembskiy sketched out the four main issues he hopes to deal with at the summit: "Firstly we must finalise the four areas of co-operation between the EU and Russia, namely external security, the economic area, democracy and freedom and scientific and cultural co-operation" . The second item on the agenda was transit to and from Kaliningrad: "Since enlargement, the transit of goods has become more difficult than before ", he stressed. Thirdly, he wished to see "simpler customs procedures" as well as "the introduction of a system for granting visas" in the EU. 22.09.2004 Committee on Foreign Affairs In the chair: Elmar BROK (EPP-ED, DE) Press enquiries: Joëlle Fiss - tel. (32-2) 28 41075 e-mail: foreign-press@europarl.eu.int European Members of ACP committess elected Following the election last week in Strasbourg of the Co-president and 12 EU vice-presidents of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly (see below), the EU representatives to the three key committees of the Assembly were chosen this week in Brussels. The MEPs elected are listed below: Co-president and twelve vice-presidents of ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly Co-president Mrs KINNOCK (PES, UK), 12 EU