initiative. This information shall be provided in one of the official languages of the Union, in an online register made available for that purpose by the Commission (hereafter "the register"). This information shall be provided in one or more official languages of the Union, in an online register made available for that purpose by the Commission (hereafter "the register"). Information in an official language other the language(s) in which information was originally provided may be submitted subsequently for entry in the register. The translation of the initiative into other official languages of the Union shall be the responsibility of the organisers. Justification In practice the initiative should be translated because the citizens' committee is made up of citizens coming from different countries, and the signatures are to be collected in at least one fifth of the Member States. Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Except in the cases foreseen in paragraphs 3 and 4 , the Commission shall register without delay the proposed initiative under a unique registration number and send a confirmation to the organiser . 2. If it is established that the proposed initiative qualifies as a citizens' initiative pursuant to this Regulation , the Commission shall register it under a unique registration number and send a confirmation to the organisers . Justification The registration should only be refused in cases when the move in question is not a citizens' initiative. Those cases are defined by the Treaties and this regulation. Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Proposed citizens' initiatives which can be reasonably regarded as improper because they are abusive or devoid of seriousness will not be registered. 3. The Commission shall register a proposed initiative within two months from its receipt provided that the following conditions are fulfilled: (a) the citizens' committee has been formed and the contact persons have been designated; (b) there are no manifest, significant inconsistencies between the linguistic versions of the title, subject-matter and objectives of the proposed initiative; (c) the initiative does not manifestly fall outside the scope of the Commission’s power under the Treaties to submit a proposal for the requested legal act; (d) the proposed initiative is not manifestly abusive, frivolous or vexatious; (e) the proposed initiative is not manifestly contrary to the values of the Union as set out in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union. Justification The Commission proposal separates the question of registration and admissibility. In the rapporteurs' view if a certain move by citizens fulfils all the criteria set out by the treaty and the regulation for a citizens' initiative, the organisers' right to collect signatures can not be denied. In that case there is no need to further examine "admissibility". On the other hand, if it doesn't fulfil those criteria, then it is not a citizens' initiative but something else (petition, letter, complaint, etc.) and in that case, for the sake of legal certainty, it should be made clear from