to ensuring that the promotion of human rights as both a basic value and an objective of the Union's foreign policy is duly mirrored in the continuing dialogue between the EU and Syria and in their contractual relations; D. Whereas Mr Haytham Al-Maleh, an 80 year-old human rights lawyer, has been arbitrarily arrested by officers of the General Intelligence Service on 14 October 2009, held incommunicado until his interrogation by the Military Prosecutor on 20 October 2009 and tried before the Second Military Court of Damascus despite the fact that military tribunals should not have competence to try civilians; E. Whereas Mr Muhannad Al Hassani, a Syrian lawyer, President of the Syrian Organisation for Human Rights “Sawasiya” and Commissioner of the International Commission of Jurists (ICI) was arrested by the Syrian Authorities on 28 July 2009; whereas the prosecution based its accusation on three secret reports made by the General Intelligence Service which were demonstrated by defence lawyers as false; F. Whereas Mr Haytham Al-Maleh and Mr Muhannad Al Hassani were sentenced respectively on 4 July 2010 and 23 June to three years' imprisonment on the grounds of "transferring false and exaggerated news that weaken national sentiment", under Articles 285 and 286 of the Syrian Criminal Code; G. Whereas trial monitoring missions organised by international civil society organisations clearly reported that both trials failed to meet with international standards of fair trial, including the right to be presumed innocent, the right to defence and the right to equality of arms; H. Whereas the prosecution and conviction of Mr Haytham Al-Maleh for charges related to public statements he made on legal and political systems in Syria and of Mr Muhannad Al Hassani for charges related to his professional activities as a lawyer, including his observation and reporting on public hearings before the State Security Court amount to a form of punishment for the exercise of their legitimate right to freedom of expression provided by the ICCPR, to which Syria is a party; I. Whereas Mr Al-Maleh suffers from arthritis, diabetes and thyroid problems and is deprived of any regular access to medication; whereas his health condition seriously deteriorated during the summer; J. Whereas writer Ali Al-Abdullah, one of the 12 signatories of the Damascus Declaration, still remains imprisoned although he was supposed to be released on 14 June 2010 after having completed his sentence; K. Whereas the practices of harassment, restrictions of freedom of movement and arbitrary arrest are part of a persistent policy of repression conducted by Syrian authorities towards human rights defenders; whereas the continued application of the Emergency Law is effectively limiting citizens in the exercise of the right to freedom of expression, association and assembly; L. Whereas Kurds are the largest non-Arab ethnic minority in Syria estimated at approximately 1.7 million; whereas a number of leading Kurdish political activists have been arrested, detained and referred to military court or to the Supreme State Security Court for prosecution under charges of “inciting strife” or “weakening national sentiment”; 1. Urges the Syrian authorities to immediately and unconditionally release MM. Al-Maleh, Al