a complementary instrument aimed at supporting efforts to enhance nuclear safety and the application of efficient and effective safeguards of nuclear materials in third countries. (1) The European Community is a major provider of economic, financial, technical, humanitarian and macro-economic assistance to third countries. In order to make the European Community's external aid more effective, a new framework has been devised for the planning and provision of assistance. Regulation (EC) No … of the Council of … will set up a Pre-Accession Instrument to cover Community assistance for candidate countries and potential candidate countries. Regulation (EC) No … of the European Parliament and of the Council of … will introduce a European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument. Regulation (EC) No … of the European Parliament and of the Council of … is aimed at development cooperation with third countries 1 . Council Regulation (EC) No … of ... promotes economic cooperation with the other third countries. Regulation (EC) No .... of the European Parliament and of the Council of ... will set up an Instrument for Stability. Regulation (EC) No .... of the European Parliament and of the Council of ... establishes a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide (EIDHR) 2 . The present Regulation is a complementary instrument aimed at supporting efforts to enhance nuclear safety and the application of efficient and effective safeguards of nuclear materials in third countries. _______________· 1 OJ L […], […], p. […]. 2 OJ L […], […], p. […]. Amendment 3 Recital 2 a (new) (2a) The growing availability of nuclear material increases the risk of nuclear weaponry proliferation and therefore has clear nuclear safety implications which should be addressed by the present instrument. Amendment 4 Recital 3 a (new) (3a) It is of fundamental importance that the confidentiality of information on nuclear and radiological safety, which must be precise and corroborated, be guaranteed, particularly as regards information which could be of major interest to terrorists . Amendment 5 (4) The Community already pursues a close cooperation, in accordance with Chapter X of the Treaty, with the International Atomic Energy Agency, both in relation to nuclear safeguards (in furtherance of the objectives of Chapter VII of Part Two of the Treaty), and in relation to nuclear safety. (4) The Community already pursues close cooperation, in accordance with Chapter 10 of Title II of the Treaty, with the International Atomic Energy Agency, both in relation to nuclear safeguards (in furtherance of the objectives of Chapter 7 of Title II of the Treaty), and in relation to nuclear safety. In this context, the Community is actively supporting the drafting of a code of conduct for an international nuclear incident warning system under the aegis of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Amendment 6 Recital 7 (7) Besides international Conventions and Treaties some Member States have concluded bilateral agreements on the provision of technical assistance. ( 7) Besides international Conventions and Treaties some Member States have concluded bilateral agreements on the provision of technical assistance. The coordination of actions under such agreements with Community actions