Other discharge procedures The provisions governing the procedure for discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget shall likewise apply to: - the procedure for discharge to the President of the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Parliament; - the procedure for discharge to the persons responsible for the implementation of the budgets of other institutions and bodies of the European Union such as the Council (as regards its activity as executive), the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions; - the procedure for discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Development Fund; - the procedure for discharge to the bodies responsible for the budgetary management of legally independent entities which carry out Community tasks, insofar as their activities are subject to legal provisions requiring discharge by the European Parliament. Rule 72 Parliamentary control over implementation of the budget 1. Parliament shall monitor the implementation of the current year's budget. It shall entrust this task to the committees responsible for the budget and budgetary control and the other committees concerned. 2. Each year it shall consider, before the first reading of the draft budget for the following financial year, the problems involved in the implementation of the current budget, where appropriate on the basis of a motion for a resolution tabled by its committee responsible. CHAPTER 8 INTERNAL BUDGETARY PROCEDURES Rule 73 Estimates of Parliament 1. The Bureau shall draw up the preliminary draft estimates on the basis of a report prepared by the Secretary-General. 2. The President shall forward the preliminary draft estimates to the committee responsible, which shall draw up the draft estimates and report to Parliament. 3. The President shall set a time limit for the tabling of amendments to the draft estimates. The committee responsible shall give its opinion on these amendments. 4. Parliament shall adopt the estimates. 5. The President shall forward the estimates to the Commission and Council. 6. The foregoing provisions shall also apply to supplementary estimates. 7. The implementing provisions governing the procedure for drawing up Parliament's estimates shall be adopted by a majority of the votes cast and be annexed to these Rules See Annex IV. . Rule 74 Power to incur and settle expenditure 1. The President shall incur and settle, or cause to be incurred and settled, the expenditure covered by the internal financial regulations issued by the Bureau after consulting the appropriate committee. 2. The President shall forward the draft annual accounts to the committee responsible. 3. On the basis of a report by the committee responsible, Parliament shall approve its accounts and decide on the giving of a discharge. CHAPTER 9 ASSENT PROCEDURE Rule 75 Assent procedure 1. Where Parliament is requested to give its assent to a proposed act, it shall take a decision on the basis of a recommendation from the committee responsible to approve or reject the act. Parliament shall take a decision on the