appropriations entered in the EAGGF Guarantee Section. 3. As from 15 November, routine management expenditure for the EAGGF Guarantee Section may be committed in advance against the appropriations provided for the following financial year. Such commitments may not, however, exceed one half of the total corresponding appropriations for the current financial year. They may apply only to expenditure for which the principle is laid down in an existing basic act. Article 151 1. Expenditure effected by the authorities and bodies referred to in the rules relating to the EAGGF Guarantee Section shall, within two months following receipt of the statements sent in by Member States, be the subject of a commitment by chapter, article and item. Save where payment has not yet been made by the Member States or where eligibility is in doubt, the amounts shall be charged as payments within the same time limit. This budgetary commitment shall be deducted from the global provisional commitment referred to in Article 150. 2. Global provisional commitments which have been made for a financial year and which have not given rise to commitment on specific lines in the budget nomenclature by 1 February of the following financial year shall be cancelled in respect of the original financial year. 3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply subject to the clearance of accounts. Article 152 Expenditure shall be booked to the accounts for a financial year on the basis of the repayments made by the Commission to the Member States by 31 December of the year concerned at the latest, provided that the payment order has reached the accounting officer by 31 January of the following financial year at the latest. Article 153 1. Where the Commission may transfer appropriations pursuant to Article 23, it shall take its decision by 31 January of the following financial year at the latest and shall inform the budgetary authority thereof. 2. In cases other than those referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission shall submit transfer proposals to the budgetary authority by 10 January of the following financial year at the latest. The budgetary authority shall take decisions on such transfers in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 24, but within a time limit of three weeks. Article 154 The result of decisions on clearance of accounts shall be entered in a single article as lower or higher expenditure. TITLE II STRUCTURAL FUNDS Article 155 1. Parts one and three of this Regulation shall apply to expenditure effected by the authorities and bodies referred to in the regulations governing the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and the preaccession structural and agricultural measures and to their revenue, save as otherwise provided in this title. 2. Operations managed directly by the Commission shall also be implemented in accordance with the rules laid down in parts one and three of this Regulation. 3. The preaccession structural and agricultural measures may be managed on a decentralised basis as provided in Article 164. Article 156 1. Payment by the Commission of financial contributions from the Funds shall be made in accordance