require any particulars and documents to be supplied upon application for the registration of a SPE other than the following : 2. Member States shall require only the following particulars and documents to be supplied upon application for the registration of an SPE: Justification Clarification. Amendment 21 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 2 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) a description of its cross-border characteristics, in accordance with Article 3(1)(ea); Justification The draft contains no cross-border requirement for the establishment of an SPE. However, such a requirement is necessary for Community legislation based on Article 308 of the EC Treaty. The cross-border requirement should avoid bureaucratic obstacles without inviting circumvention at the same time. Amendment 22 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 2 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) the business objectives of the SPE; Justification The Commission proposal says nothing about the aims which an SPE should be designed to achieve. The self-image and philosophy of any company, including an SPE, depend crucially on the company’s business objective. Amendment 23 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 2 – point g a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ga) the number of employees of the SPE; Justification This information is relevant the size of the company and the number of employees determine specific and differentiated treatment and provisions according to national company laws when applicable. Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 2 – point h a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ha) the business objective. Justification This is necessary to check if the company name is available for registration or if the company is the subject of special permissions. The object of the company restricts also the competence of the director – with effects on the liability of the directors. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 4 – subparagraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Member States shall be free to decide which of the above requirements must be met for registration purposes. Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. The SPE shall submit any change in the particulars or documents referred to in points (a) to (g) of paragraph 2 to the register within 14 calendar days of the day on which the change takes place. After every amendment to the articles of association, the SPE shall submit its complete text to the register as amended to date. 5. The SPE shall submit any change in the particulars or documents referred to in points (a) to (g) of paragraph 2 for entry onto the register within 14 calendar days of the day on which the change takes place. The SPE shall submit any change in the particulars or documents referred to in paragraph 2(ga) for entry onto the register on an annual basis. After every amendment to the articles of association, the SPE shall submit its complete