its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. An SPE shall have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Where, having regard to objective factors, such as the location of its premises, workforce and equipment, an SPE's economic activity is carried out in the territory of a different Member State from that in which it is registered, it shall be deemed to be registered in the Member State where it effectively carries out its economic activity. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 2 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) a list of shareholders in accordance with Article 15; Justification Nach der VO sollte die GF für die Führung des Verzeichnisses der Anteilseigner verantwortlich sein (siehe Artikel 15). Es gibt keine Sanktionen, wenn der GF dieses Verzeichnis nicht ordnungsgemäß führt. Vor allem in der Krise ist es wichtig, dass die Liste der Anteilseigner vollständig ist, wenn z. B. ein Gesellschafter seinen Anteil noch nicht vollständig einbezahlt hat, könnte ein Gläubiger diesen Anspruch des Unternehmens auf Zahlung pfänden. Hierzu braucht er eine vollständige Liste der Anteilseigner. Es kann daher nur zielführend sein, wenn die Gesellschafter in das öffentliche Register eingetragen werden und es für den GF Konsequenzen gibt, wenn diese Informationen nicht stimmen. Dies ist aus Transparenz und Gläubigerschutzgesichtpunkten besonders wichtig . Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 2 – point g Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (g) the articles of association of the SPE; (g) the articles of association of the SPE; including any rights of participation enjoyed by employees ; Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3a. Registration in the register described in Article 9(1) shall be carried out with the participation of a notary. Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. Registration of the SPE may be subject to only one of the following requirements: 4. Registration of the SPE shall be subject to the following requirements: (a) a control by an administrative or judicial body of the legality of the documents and particulars of the SPE; (a) a control by an administrative or judicial body of the legality of the documents and particulars of the SPE , and (b) the certification of the documents and particulars of the SPE. (b) the certification of the documents and particulars of the SPE. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Article 19 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 1 . 4. The capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 15 000 . Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by