by investment firms when providing services in other Member States. The competent authority of the Member State in which a branch is located shall enforce the obligations of this provision and any implementing measures adopted under paragraph 6 in respect of the services provided by a branch to its clients. Article 24 Monitoring of trading on or through an MTF 1. Member States shall ensure that, where necessary and appropriate given the MTF's position in the overall market for the investment concerned , investment firms operating an MTF establish adequate and effective arrangements to facilitate the effective and regular monitoring of transactions undertaken on or through the facility in order to identify disorderly trading conditions or behaviour that may involve market abuse. Member States shall ensure that under those arrangements, which shall be proportionate to the share of trading undertaken on the MTF outside the rules of a regulated market, investment firms supply immediately the information gathered pursuant to the first subparagraph to the home Member State's competent authority and provide full assistance to the latter in investigating and prosecuting market abuse undertaken on or through the MTF. Member States shall ensure that, in complying with their obligations under this Article, operators of MTFs have no legal liability to third parties. 2. In order to promote the orderly and effective monitoring of trading on MTFs so as to sustain overall market integrity, and to ensure the uniform application of paragraph 1, the Commission shall adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), implementing measures which define the arrangements referred to in paragraph 1. The Commission shall also adopt implementing measures which define circumstances in which an MTF's reporting requirements are restricted to situations where market abuse or disorderly trading is suspected. Article 25 Obligation for investment firms to make public firm bid and offers 1. Member States shall require investment firms which practise systematic internalisation in shares to make public a firm bid and offer quotes for transactions of a standard market size in those shares, where those shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market and for which there is a liquid market. Member States shall require that the investment firms referred to in the first subparagraph trade with their systematic internalisation clients at a price equal to or better than that quoted, except where justified by legitimate commercial considerations. 2. Member States shall provide that the obligation set out in paragraph 1 is waived in respect of investment firms whose systematic internalisation does not represent an important provision of liquidity for the share(s) in question on a regular or continuous basis. 3. Member States shall ensure that the bid and offer prices required under paragraph 1 are made public in a manner which is easily accessible to other market participants on reasonable commercial terms, on a regular and continuous basis during normal trading hours. The competent authorities shall: a) verify whether investment firms fulfil the criteria laid down in Article 3(1)(24); b) monitor whether investment firms regularly update the bid and offer prices published in accordance