a result it went into the red for the first time in its history. It later admitted, exercising self-criticism, that certain risks arising from companies' questionable business standards had been underestimated. Similarly, the Bank had overestimated its ability to exercise influence over firms with the aim of raising low business standards. The Bank nonetheless made it abundantly clear that even in the most difficult economic circumstances it would not withdraw from Russia. The experience with Russia shows the scale of the structural risk to which the Bank was exposed through its operations. In 2000 and 2001 rising raw materials prices and faster economic growth worldwide meant that there was a greater need for investment in Eastern Europe and Russia, where the Bank was running several major energy projects. In 2001 the level of investment reached a record figure of EUR 3.6 bn, and this increase pointed to the Bank's increasing self-confidence. Assessment Your rapporteur wishes to highlight the fact that the EBRD is prepared to court risks in its activities in the countries in transition, and does not systematically seek State guarantees. Taking risks is a fundamental task of this public bank. Its mandate is to invest in places where other banks do not dare to tread. Consequently, your rapporteur is unable to join those who have complained about and criticised the Bank's losses from its operations in Russia. Losses result from taking risks, and EBRD staff can learn from both successes and failures and use them in future to improve their management. For some time now the EBRD has concentrated its activities on developing small and medium-sized businesses. Your rapporteur explicitly supports this change of emphasis. The EBRD's role cannot be to finance multinationals such as Coca Cola or Siemens. There are many entrepreneurs in Eastern and Central Europe who are prepared to invest, but who cannot obtain the requisite resources to do so from their national banking system. The EBRD must give priority to supporting them, and to do so it must follow a twin-track policy: - first, it must develop aid programmes for local banks, so that they can learn how to deal with small-scale lending; the rate of lending to business and private customers in Eastern and Central European countries, as a proportion of GDP, is very low compared with Western Europe; - secondly, banks must be developed which specialise in lending to small and medium-sized businesses and in micro-loans; the EBRD's experiences in this area are very encouraging, and show that micro-credit banks are greatly in demand and enjoy a very high level of return flows. Your rapporteur, accordingly, supports the extension of these initiatives to all the States in transition. The success of the initiatives also proves that there continues to be great potential/a great need for investment which has to be met. At the same time the EBRD stresses, however, that the capacity of these countries to absorb investment is still limited. This problem must be considered afresh. Absorptive capacity also depends on the financing arrangements. It may be that the capacity to absorb large-scale