Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (27 April 2010) 1‑2. The financial crisis has highlighted existing weaknesses in the current supervisory arrangements in respect of stability risks arising from the interaction between macroeconomic developments and the financial system. This is why the Commission has proposed an enhanced European financial supervisory framework, which will be composed of two new pillars: the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) and the European System of Financial Supervisors (ESFS). The main features of the Commission's proposal are the following: — the Commission will participate actively in the ESRB, with voting rights, in the general Board. It will also be part of the steering committee and of the advisory technical committee. By providing macro-prudential oversight, the ESRB will aim at ensuring stability and a fair financial system. — given a high level of financial integration, macro-prudential oversight can only be conducted effectively at the EU level. Accordingly, the ESRB will be been established to bring together the appropriate authorities of the 27 Member States. Membership of the ESRB will comprise both central bankers and prudential supervisors to ensure an appropriate blend of macro-prudential and micro-prudential expertise. — the ESRB will have the capacity to assess and prioritise all potential risks to financial stability and to recommend actions to address them as needed. More in detail, the ESRB’s function will be: 1. to collect and analyze all information relevant for monitoring and assessing potential threats to financial stability that arise from macroeconomic developments as well as developments within the financial system as a whole; 2. to identify and prioritize such risks; 3. to issue warnings where risks appear to be significant; 4. to make recommendations on the measures to be taken in reaction to the risks identified; 5. to monitor the required follow-up to warnings and recommendations; and 6. to liaise with the International Monetary Fund, the newly created Financial Stability Board and other non-EU counterparts. The Commission believes that the creation of the ESRB will address one of the fundamental weaknesses highlighted by the financial crisis, which is the vulnerability of the financial system to interconnected, complex, sectoral and cross-sectoral systemic risks. The second pillar of an enhanced European financial supervisory framework (ESFS) will consist of a network of national financial supervisors working in tandem with three new European supervisory authorities: the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority and the European Securities Authority (together the ‘European Supervisory Authorities’). The European Supervisory Authorities will be charged with the oversight of micro-prudential regulation: safeguarding financial soundness at the level of individual financial firms and protecting consumers of financial services. The new European network will be built on shared and mutually reinforcing responsibilities, combining nationally based supervision of firms with centralization of specific tasks at the European level to foster harmonised rules and coherent supervisory practice and enforcement. 3. It is up to each EU citizen to find the borrowing sources, which offer most favourable terms. It is also up to each credit institution to assess adequately the credit worthiness of the foreign clients