Answer given by Ms Geoghegan-Quinn on behalf of the Commission (24 October 2011) The practice of granting free-of-charge access over the Internet to research results (open access) is backed by a growing number of universities, research centres and funding agencies in EU Member States and worldwide. The increasing number of national initiatives in this field is an encouraging move towards the development of European policies. Open access to research results is an important aspect of the broader area of knowledge circulation which the Commission is committed to exploring in a coherent way http://ec.europa.eu/research/science-society/open_access , in line with specific statements made in the EU Flagship Initiatives ‘Innovation Union’ COM(2010)546, 06.10.2010. and ‘Digital Agenda’ COM(2010)245, 26.8.2010. . As we move towards the next Framework Programme and the completion of the European Research Area, it is crucial to start thinking about how we can enhance knowledge circulation within the EU through wider and quicker access to and re-use of scientific information as well as a better preservation of these outputs. 1. Following an invitation from the Council of EU Research Ministers to experiment with open access, in August 2008 the Commission launched the Open Access Pilot in the Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP7, 2007‑13), covering seven research areas, which represent circa 20 % of the FP7 budget. At present a first evaluation is being undertaken to gather the preliminary results of this exercise (a questionnaire has been sent to the coordinators of all the more than 800 projects concerned). 2. The FP7 project OpenAIRE www.openaire.eu provides an electronic infrastructure and practical support for the identification, deposit, access and monitoring of FP7 and European Research Council funded articles. It has also created European helpdesks that assist researchers in meeting the requirements of the Open Access Pilot in FP7. Encouraging research institutions across Europe to adopt common policies and standards that allow sharing of all research outputs is also crucial to ensuring the optimal functioning of a European, integrated system for disseminating science. 3. Work is on course on the rules for participation and dissemination of ‘Horizon 2020 — the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-20)’, which will spell out the specific modalities to implement the general principle of open access to scientific publications emanating from EU funding. Rules should also open up the possibility to experiment, in appropriate areas, with open access to research data. Building on the 2007 communication on scientific information in the digital age, a new Commission communication and recommendation to the Member States are planned for early 2012, in which the question of open access to research results will be addressed. The Commission will duly take into account the results of the several consultations and interactions undertaken with stakeholders; in particular, attention will be given to the recently closed public consultation on scientific information and the ongoing ERA framework consultation.