Answer given by Mr Monti on behalf of the Commission (13 October 2004) As the Honourable Member has pointed out, the Greek Competition Commission is indeed investigating certain practices of the Greek Supermarkets’ Association (SESME). The inspection it undertook in the context of that investigation was based upon national competition law, not on European competition rules. The Greek Competition Commission has informed the Commission that at this stage of the procedure it is too soon to conclude if there is an infringement of the competition rules, whether national or European. The Commission recalls that it has no competence for the application of national competition rules. As a result of the modernisation of the application of the European competition rules, the national competition authorities and courts can now fully apply these rules. The network formed by the competition authorities ensures an efficient division of work and an effective and consistent application of Community competition rules. An efficient division of work implies that an authority is well placed to deal with agreements or practices that are implemented within or originate from its territory and that substantially affect competition within its territory. It is clear that the Greek Competition Commission is well placed to deal with this case also for the possible application of the European competition rules and therefore there is at present no reason for the Commission to act on the basis of competition rules. However, the Honourable Member has also mentioned the Greek law prohibiting sales below cost which, according to him, prevents the retailers from reducing prices to the detriment of Greek consumers. On this subject, it can not be excluded that the differing national rules on sales below cost have an impact on the Internal Market, and especially on cross border provision of goods or services. In its Resolution dated 4 September 2002 relating to the ‘proposal for a Regulation on sales promotions in the Internal Market’ OJ C 75E, 26.3.2002 , the Parliament asked the Commission to issue a report evaluating the ‘Internal Market effects on the differing national prohibitions on sales below cost’. A call for tenders on this subject was launched recently and the Commission will keep the Honourable Member informed of the follow-up to this question.