the Parliament's institutional and budgetary powers by including non-compulsory expenditure in the annex to the Accession Treaties, even if this only applies for a temporary period and represents a partial derogation of Article 272 of the EC Treaty; 5. Notes the Commission proposal in its Communication to the Council and the European Parliament "Building our common future: Policy challenges and Budgetary means of the Enlarged Union 2007-2013" COM(2004)0101 . , which is based on the assumption that Bulgaria and Romania will be Member States on 1 January 2007; 6. notes the amounts foreseen by the Council in its conclusions of 22 March 2004 on the "Financial package for the accession negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania" as set out in Annex 2; 7. Estimates that the overall amount foreseen for Bulgaria and Romania for the period 2007 - 2013 could be around EUR 44.3 billion broken down as follows: EUR 16.2 billion for the period 2007 - 2009, of which EUR 12.4 billion agreed in the accession treaty, and EUR 28.1 billion for the period 2010-2013; considers that these amounts will constitute a reference during the forthcoming negotiations on the future financial perspective or in case of non agreement on the financial perspective; 8. I nsists that, in any circumstances, the financing of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania must not jeopardise the commitments for existing multiannual programmes; insists that the binding appropriations of about EUR 300 million, which are needed annually for internal policy and administrative expenditure in case no agreement on a new financial perspective is reached, have to be provided in addition; 9. Invites the Council to review its current position and support the Joint Declaration agreed with the Council Presidency, as in Annex 1 to this text; 10. Warns the Council that otherwise the European Parliament, as the arm of the budgetary authority, will take the appropriate measures in case it persists in its lack of loyal cooperation and breach of the inter-institutional agreement by not agreeing on the Joint Declaration annexed to this text; 11. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission. Annex 1 Joint Declaration agreed between the Council Presidency and the EP negotiating delegation Financial implications of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania 1. Without prejudice of the draft treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe a. The representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting with the Council declare that the amounts in Title III "Financial Provisions" of the Act of Accession, annexed to the draft Accession Treaty submitted under the assent procedure of the European Parliament, are mentioned without prejudice to the European Parliament's rights and the powers and prerogatives of the budgetary authority conferred by Article 272 the EC Treaty and the relevant provisions of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999. b. The Council, the Commission and the European Parliament confirm that the classification of the expenditure in Articles 30-34, Title III "Financial Provisions" of the Act of Accession, annexed to the draft Accession Treaty will constitute non-compulsory expenditure after 2009. 2. The Commission confirms that its