the budgetary authority during the annual budgetary procedure. (16) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. . (17) The progress of this programme should be continuously monitored, HAVE ADOPTED THIS DECISION: Article 1 A multiannual programme (2003-2005) for the monitoring of the e Europe 2005 Action plan, dissemination of good practices and improvement of network and information security (hereafter referred to as "the programme") is hereby adopted. The programme shall have the following objectives: a) to monitor performance of and within Member States and to compare it with the best in the world by using, where possible, official statistics; b) to support efforts made by Member States in the framework of e Europe, at national, regional or local level, by analysis of e Europe good practices and by the complementary interaction of developing mechanisms of exchange of experiences; c) to analyse the economic and societal consequences of the Information Society with a view to facilitating policy discussions particularly in terms of industrial competitiveness and cohesion as well as in terms of social inclusion; to provide the e Europe Steering Group with the necessary information for it to be able to assess the appropriate strategic direction of the e Europe 2005 Action plan; d) to prepare for the establishment of the future structure at European level for network and information security issues, as envisaged by the Council Resolution of 28 January 2002 and in the e Europe 2005 Action plan, with a view to improving network and information security. The activities of the programme shall be actions of a cross-sectorial nature, complementing Community actions in other fields. None of these actions shall duplicate the work being carried out in these fields under other Community programmes. The actions taken under the programme on benchmarking, good practices and policy coordination shall work to achieve the objectives of the e Europe 2005 Action plan, to promote network and information security and broadband, and to promote e Government, e Business, e Health and e Learning. The programme shall also provide a common framework for complementary interaction at European level of the various national, regional and local levels. Article 2 In order to attain the objectives referred to in Article 1, the following categories of actions shall be undertaken: (a) Action 1: Monitoring and Comparison of Performance – data collection and analysis on the basis of the benchmarking indicators as defined in the Council Resolution of 18 February 2003 on the implementation of the e Europe 2005 Action plan OJ C 48, 28.2.2003, p. 2. , including regional indicators where appropriate. A special focus should be given to data relating to the key targets of the e Europe 2005 Action plan; (b) Action 2: Dissemination of Good Practices – studies to identify good practices, at national, regional and local level, contributing to successful implementation of the e Europe 2005 Action plan; – support