proposal for a new Regulation applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences without delay; 4. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council, the Commission and the national parliaments. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT In 1968, the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) recommended the creation of a "Generalized System of Preferences" (GSP) under which industrialised countries would grant trade preferences to all developing countries on a non-reciprocal basis, not just to former colonies. The European Community was the first to implement a GSP scheme in 1971. Since its creation, the GSP has been one of the key EU trade and development policy instruments to assist developing countries reduce poverty by generating revenue through international trade. It is the most used of such developed countries systems. The EU's GSP grants products imported from GSP beneficiary countries either duty-free access or a tariff reduction, depending on which of the GSP arrangements a country enjoys. There are three types of arrangement in force for beneficiary countries: 1) all beneficiary countries enjoy the benefit of the general arrangement; 2) the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (the "GSP+") provides additional benefits for countries ratifying and implementing a list of currently 27 international conventions and protocols on human and labour rights, environmental protection, drugs and the fight against corruption; 3) the special arrangement for the least-developed countries (LDCs), also known as the "Everything But Arms" (EBA) initiative, provides for the most favourable treatment of all, in the aim of granting the LDCs "duty-free and quota-free" access to the EU's market. Calendar The GSP is implemented through successive Regulations with a period of application of three years at a time. The first multi-annual implementing regulation was valid from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2008. The second is valid from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011. In 2008, the proposal for the regulation in force at this moment was referred to the Parliament under the consultation procedure. The basic provisions of the previous GSP Regulation remained unchanged but had been reviewed to facilitate the application of the scheme. Regrettably, and contrary to the wishes expressed by Parliament, the Commission did not transmit its proposal sufficiently in advance (by 1 June 2007) to enable the European Parliament to be fully consulted within a reasonable timescale. In fact, the Commission presented its proposal only on 21 December 2007. On 31 January 2008 the Council asked the Parliament to give its opinion before 10 April. Therefore, the process of consultation of the European Parliament was over-hasty. In its resolution of 5 June 2008, Parliament made clear that this was not satisfactory, that in the future more time would be necessary for the Parliament to play its role and asked that "The proposal for a revised regulation covering the period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 shall be transmitted by the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee by 1 June 2010." The current scheme will expire on 31 December 2011. On 26 May 2010 the Commission