In this framework, measures taken to step up surveillance activities and attack illegal fisheries, also deserve the Parliament's support. * Article 3 of the protocol touches on the conditions applicable for responsible fisheries. The rapporteur welcomes the efforts agreed upon by both parties to closely follow the development of the state of the resources and to meet annually and to discuss the results of scientific research. In this context the new law governing fishing activities which was adopted by Guinea-Bissau in August 2000, seems to streamline and improve fisheries in the country's EEZ. Another sign of this responsible approach, also given in article 3, allows the Community to ask for an increase of fishing effort if the state of the resources permit. In this context the plans of Guinea-Bissau to create a national park in João Vieira/Poilão which concentrates a large colony of green turtles should also be encouraged. * In some agreements the level of targeted measures amounts to 70% (the protocol with Ivory Coast) of the Community's contribution. In the case of Guinea-Bissau this is only 10%. Your rapporteur would have preferred a higher percentage but is nevertheless satisfied that both parties decided to double the amount from the previous protocol to a level of 1 million € per year. This allows the authorities of Guinea-Bissau, with an average annual gross national product of 160 USD/capita one of the poorest countries in the world, to further develop the local fishing sector that employs about 10% of the active work force and generates 27% of the state income (source: Commission's evaluation paper). However, it is regrettable that, as so often in the past, the Parliament is not informed on the application of the targeted measures in the previous protocol. The obligation for Guinea-Bissau to report annually on the application of the targeted measures has been laid down in article 5 of the new Protocol. The Parliament insists that this information will be forwarded by the Commission. * The rapporteur welcomes the presentation by the Commission of evaluation reports on the application of fisheries agreements. Because of the suspension of the agreement during part of 1998 and 1999 it is hard to draw conclusions from the data given on the use of the fishing possibilities. But the evaluation provides valuable information on the current exploitation and the state of the stocks. In particular the demersal resources seem to be in sharp decline, due to overfishing caused by illegal fishing and as a result of the many private agreements concluded in the past. However, your rapporteur is confident that sustainability of fisheries will be improved by better surveillance measures as proposed in the protocol. Conclusion In view of the considerations outlined above, the rapporteur, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, recommends that Parliament deliver a favourable opinion on the proposal on the protocol establishing the fishing possibilities and the financial compensation provided for in the Fisheries agreement between the Community and the republic of Guinea-Bissau. 21 November 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUDGETS for the Committee on Fisheries on the proposal