constant progress, B. whereas the current policy framework for the development of new ICT has largely been focused on economic aspects and the control of the ICT is primarily left to private sector, without any social impact assessment or proper incentives policies for equal rights of women and men, in order to acquire the necessary skills for the "knowledge society". This approach leads to the inappropriate perception of open participation to all. C. whereas the information society and the access to ICT is widely considered as gender neutral ; D. whereas the planned policies about information society do not address any gender issues and fail to recognise the uneven results for men and women, E. whereas the emerging social exclusion danger emanating from the inability to use ICT - the digital illiteracy - concerns to a large extent women, F. whereas studies and data show a persistent gender imbalance to the disadvantage of women in ICT related education and ICT related jobs, G. whereas the right to participate in the Information Society must enable women to fully take their role as actors in shaping the future society, H. whereas educational and vocational systems in most European countries tend to sustain prejudices and stereotyped perceptions of the ICT professions and ICT industry with the disappointing figures of less than 20% female students in the ICT sector, and even fewer women setting up their own business and being in positions of responsibility and creativity in this sector, I. whereas 60% of new work opportunities during the five past years belong to the ICT sector; J. whereas private and public sectors are obliged to care about gender equality, promoting the participation of each gender, K. whereas the under-representation of women in science and ICT sector prevents the achievement of the Lisbon objectives, L. whereas Europe continues to face the under-representation of women in the science and ICT sector without making the most of its human resources and potential, and its lag in innovation and economic competitiveness towards the US can not be reduced, M. whereas the rapid growth of ICT 's is being globally recognised as the most important factor in the development of any nation, the new technologies present a new opportunity that arise with globalisation, however women are often the least able to seize the opportunities, N. whereas it is of utmost importance to pay adequate attention at to formulate parameters of women participating in the ICT world, not only within the actual Member states of the Union, but also in the New Member states, including Bulgaria and Romania, 1. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to devise policies intended to include women in all sectors of the new ICT ; 2. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to ensure the full involvement of women in planning and decision-making on Information Society policies and control and management of the ICT and media sector; 3. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to pay particular attention to women at risk of being excluded from the benefits of the Information