round of assessments. Amendment 7 Section I, Recommendation C C. encourage quality assurance and accreditation agencies , together with organisations representing higher education, to set up a “European Register of Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agencies”, as described in the Annex, and to define the conditions for registration. C. encourage representatives of quality assurance and accreditation agencies, the higher education sector and national authorities to set up a “European Register of Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agencies”, based on the national assessment, as described in the Annex, to define the conditions for registration and the rules for the management of the register. Amendment 8 Section I, Recommendation D D. enable higher education institutions active within their territory to choose among quality assurance or accreditation agencies in the European Register, an agency which meets their needs and profile. D. enable higher education institutions active within their territory to choose , for licensing purposes, an agency in the European Register in their own country or –provided this is permitted in their own country by a set of rules or agreement to this effect with the relevant ministry– in another country , which meets their needs and profile. This should be the case particularly for joint / dual degree programmes. Amendment 9 Section I, Recommendation E E. accept the assessments made by all quality assurance and accreditation agencies listed in the European Register as a basis for decisions on licensing or funding of higher education institutions, including as regards such matters as eligibility for student grants and loans. deleted Justification Amendment aimed at consistency. The distinction drawn in the new points D and E between licensing and complementary assessment / accreditation makes the original text unnecessary. Amendment 10 Section I, Recommendation E a (new) Ea. encourage higher education institutions to work towards a complementary trans-national assessment or accreditation by an agency in the European register, with a view to boosting their international reputation. Justification It needs to be stressed that higher education establishments need to strive towards – and accordingly the Member States to promote – additional accreditation or assessment by an international agency on the European register. Amendment 11 Section I, Recommendation E b (new) Eb . promote cooperation between agencies in order to build up mutual trust and recognition among themselves, thus facilitating the recognition of their qualifications for the purpose of study or work in another country including in areas leading to regulated professions. Amendment 12 Section I, Recommendation E c (new) Ec . encourage publicity for, and ensure public access to, the assessments made by the quality assurance or accreditation agencies, listed in the European register. Justification Making public the results of the assessements of the quality assurance or accreditation agencies would contribute to better information and transparency for higher education institutions. Amendment 13 Annex, Point 1 1. The list should be drawn up by representatives of quality assurance and accreditation agencies active in the Member States, together with representatives of the higher education sector (universities and non university higher education, students, university teachers and researchers) and social partners. 1. The list should