legal capacity of natural persons; (b) the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage; (c) the annulment of a marriage; (d) the name of the spouses; (e) the property consequences of the marriage; (f) parental responsibility; (g) maintenance obligations; (h) trusts or successions. Amendment 30 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 – paragraph 2 2. For the purposes of this Regulation, ‘participating Member State’ means a Member State which participates in enhanced cooperation on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation by virtue of Council Decision […] of […] authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. 2. For the purposes of this Regulation, ‘participating Member State’ means a Member State which participates in enhanced cooperation on the law applicable to divorce and legal separation by virtue of Council Decision 2010/405/EU of 12 July 2010 authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation , or by virtue of a decision adopted in accordance with the second or third subparagraph of Article 331(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union . Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 a (new) Article 1a Relationship with Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 This Regulation shall not affect the application of Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003. Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 b (new) Article 1b Definition For the purposes of this Regulation, the term ‘court’ shall cover all authorities in the participating Member States having jurisdiction in the matters falling within the scope of this Regulation. Amendment 34 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – introductory wording 1. The spouses may choose by mutual agreement the law applicable to divorce and legal separation, provided that such law is in conformity with the fundamental rights defined in the Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and with the principle of public policy, from among the following laws: 1. The spouses may agree to designate the law applicable to divorce and legal separation, provided that it is one of the following laws: Amendment 39 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 3 3. The agreement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be expressed in writing, dated and signed by both spouses. Any communication by electronic means which provides a durable record of the agreement shall be deemed equivalent to writing. 3. If the law of the forum so provides, the spouses may also designate the law applicable before the court during the course of the proceeding. In that event, such designation shall be recorded in court in accordance with the law of the forum . However, if the law of the participating Member State in which the two spouses have their habitual residence at the time of conclusion of the agreement lays down additional formal requirements for this type of agreement, those requirements shall apply. If the spouses are habitually resident in different participating Member States and the laws of those Member States provide for different formal requirements, the agreement