Answer given by Ms Kuneva on behalf of the Commission (7 April 2009) The Commission is aware of the existence of business directory companies similar to the ‘European City Guide’ company, such as the ‘EU Company Directory’ mentioned by the Honourable Member. The Misleading and Comparative Advertising Directive Directive 2006/114/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 concerning misleading and comparative advertising, OJ L 376, 27.12.2006. (MCA), which does apply to business-to-business transactions and provides, inter alia , for the use of cessation orders or other legal proceedings to prohibit the continued use of misleading advertising, applies to the misleading practices used by such companies. It is for the competent law courts and/or public enforcement authorities of the Member State from which such schemes operate to decide on a case-by-case basis whether a commercial communication is misleading and to take appropriate enforcement action. Indeed several competent authorities and courts have already taken enforcement action against the practices of business directory companies. In this respect, businesses which feel that they have been subject to misleading advertising may wish to contact the competent authorities in the country from which the business directory company operates. Similarly if they wanted to enforce their alleged claims, business directory companies would have to initiate legal action themselves, in which case any business affected could submit an appropriate defence. It is also possible that companies or business organisations whose members have been affected by these practices may be able to take legal action also in their country of residence in accordance with the laws thereof. Furthermore, it should also be remembered that in addition to the laws transposing the MCA there are other areas of law, such as criminal law, which are not harmonised at Community level and may possibly be relied upon against such companies. The Commission has attempted to increase awareness of this issue by presenting it to European business organisations, including The European Association of Craft, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. In October 2008, the Commission informed in person the members of the Steering Group of the ‘e-Business Support Network’ (eBSN) http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/e-bsn/about/ebsn/index_en.html, http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/e-bsn/about/steering/index_en.html , a coordination network for e-Business policy‑makers, about the existence of these misleading business practices and advised them that they could be contrary to Directive 2006/114/EC concerning misleading and comparative advertising. In addition, on 4 February 2009, the Commission published in the internal coordination website of the ‘Enterprise Europe Network’ http://www.enterprise-europe-network.ec.europa.eu/index_en.htm , detailed information about these misleading advertising practices and how to avoid them. Currently, about 550 enterprise support organisations in more than 40 countries are members of the network. Furthermore, letters have been written to the competent authorities in the relevant Member States to raise awareness of the complaints received so far and to ask a number of specific questions on how national authorities are addressing the issue of misleading forms. From the replies which have been received, it is abundantly clear that national authorities are aware of the problem of such misleading practices, have legislation in place to take action and where relevant, have already done so. It