shall be are independent. The remuneration of the independent members of administrative or supervisory board shall not be linked to the business performance of the credit rating agency and shall be arranged so as to ensure the independence of their judgement. The term of office of the independent members of the administrative or supervisory board shall be for a pre-agreed fixed period not exceeding five years and shall not be renewable. The dismissal of independent members of the administrative or supervisory board shall only take place in case of misconduct or professional underperformance. The administrative or supervisory board of a credit rating agency shall include non-executive members who shall be independent. The administrative or supervisory board shall establish a compliance function which will operate independently. The purpose of the compliance function shall be to monitor and report on proper compliance of the credit rating agency and its employees with this Regulation and the credit rating agency's policies and procedures. The majority of members of the administrative or supervisory board, including all independent members, shall have sufficient expertise in financial services. At least one independent member of this board sh all have in-depth knowledge and experience at a senior level of the structured credit and securitisation markets. In addition to the overall responsibility of the board, the independent members of administrative or supervisory board shall have the specific task of monitoring the development of the credit rating policy, the effectiveness of the internal quality control system of the credit rating agency on the credit rating process to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest and the compliance and governance processes including the efficiency of the review function referred to in point 7 of this Section. Opinions of the independent directors issued on these matters shall be presented to the board periodically and made available to the competent authority, whenever the latter requests it. In addition the compliance function shall have the specific task of monitoring the development of the credit rating policy, the effectiveness of the internal quality control system of the credit rating agency on the credit rating process to ensure that there are no conflicts of interest and the compliance and governance processes including the efficiency of the review function referred to in point 7 of this Section. Opinions of the compliance function issued on these matters shall be presented to the board periodically and made available to the competent authority, whenever the latter requests it. The compliance function may be fulfilled by non-executive directors. The remuneration of the independent members of administrative or supervisory board and of the persons involved in the compliance function shall not be linked to the business performance of the credit rating agency and shall be arranged so as to ensure the independence of their judgement. The term of office of the independent members of the administrative or supervisory board and of the persons involved in the compliance function shall be for a pre-agreed fixed period not exceeding seven years and renewable once. The dismissal of independent members of the administrative or supervisory board and