the applicable national law. 2. An SPE shall prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts both in the national currency and in euro in Member States where the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply. Justification It is more appropriate for SPEs having their registered office in territory of a MS with a national currency different from the Euro to foresee the possibility to prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts both in the national currency and in euro. Amendment 65 Proposal for a regulation Article 45 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Member States shall notify the form of private limited-liability companies referred to in the second paragraph of Article 4 to the Commission by 1 July 2010 at the latest . Member States shall notify the Commission by 1 July 2010 of the form of private limited-liability companies referred to in the second paragraph of Article 4 , including the consequences under national law of any failure to comply with any provision of this Regulation and any additional provisions of national law that apply to an SPE . The Commission shall publish this information in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall publish this information in the Official Journal of the European Union. Member States shall also maintain web pages that list SPEs registered in their territory, and any court judgements relating to the operation of SPEs in their territory. The Commission shall maintain a web page with links to such national web pages. Amendment 66 Proposal for a regulation Article 46 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The authorities referred to in paragraph 1 shall cooperate with each other to ensure that the documents and particulars of the SPEs listed in Article 10(2) are also accessible through the registers of all other Member States. 2. The authorities referred to in paragraph 1 shall cooperate with each other to ensure that the documents and particulars of the SPEs listed in Article 10(2) are also accessible through the registers of all other Member States , the database referred to in Article 4c, and the SPEs' websites . Justification It is important to guarantee a proper cooperation among national authorities and commission to make information concerning SPEs available in the registers of MS and the EU database and website for SPEs. Amendment 67 Proposal for a regulation Article 47 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 47a Commission proposal The Commission shall submit a proposal for a comprehensive body of Community company law by 31 December 2010. Justification The Commission is called upon to present a proposal for harmonisation of company law in areas not yet harmonised in order to further sustainable and steady growth of the internal market. PROCEDURE Title Statute for a European private company References COM(2008)0396 – C6-0283/2008 – 2008/0130(CNS) Committee responsible JURI Opinion by Date announced in plenary ECON 2.9.2008 Drafts(wo)man Date appointed Donata Gottardi 8.7.2008 Discussed in committee 4.11.2008 1.12.2008 Date adopted 2.12.2008 Result of final vote