WRITTEN QUESTION E-2198/05 by David Hammerstein Mintz (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (21 June 2005) Subject: Destruction of the Playas de Sotavento de Jandía SCI (Fuerteventura) The Canary Islands Regional Government is implementing the first stage of the Fuerteventura ports plan, which involves work on the harbour at Gran Tarajal. The project is being carried out under the current Canaries Operational Programme and is being financed by the ERDF. The work scheduled affects the Playas de Sotavento de Jandía SCI (ES7010035) — which is part of the EU's Natura 2000 Network — and it poses a threat to 10000 square metres of Cymodocea nodosa sea-grass (a marine plant which grows in underwater meadows and features on the list of Canary Islands species which are under threat). It is sensitive to changes in its habitat and it has therefore been granted EU protection. The corrective measures required in accordance with the environmental-impact study which was carried out on 1 October 2002 involve transplanting the plants affected by the construction work to a more southerly location. This is controversial, since there are no scientific precedents for the transplant of sea-grass meadows and the experiments carried out in this area have been unsuccessful. The Gran Tarajal harbour-extension work has been speeded up but the corrective measures which the Canary Islands Government told the EU authorities it would implement have been left to one side. The work carried out so far comprises the excavation of a trench into which the cement for the northern jetty is to be poured. This has meant digging a one‑metre-deep hole in the centre of the sea-grass meadow, which has affected an area over 100 square metres in size. Is the Commission aware of these facts? If it is not, what action is it intending to take in order to ensure that Directive 85/337/EEC OJ L 175, 5.7.1985, p. 40 . is complied with and that the SCI in question is protected? Is the Commission intending to ascertain whether or not the Canary Islands Government has irreversibly damaged SCI ES7010035 and whether the work described above has been carried out in the absence of the corrective measures which feature in the relevant environmental-impact statement?