Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (23 June 2011) In its communication on migration adopted on 4 May 2011 COM(2011)248 final , the Commission indicated that it is currently exploring the feasibility of introducing a new mechanism aiming to strengthen current Schengen rules which would allow the Union to bring an adequate Community-based response strictly limited in time to exceptional and urgent situations occurring at the Union's external borders. Such situations are especially related to firstly, cases where a Member State fails to control its external borders properly and secondly to unexpected and important pressure at some parts of external border from outside the Union. The Commission fully endorses the view expressed by the Honourable Member that it is important that the EU shows concrete solidarity — in the present situation and in the future — to Member States most affected by important inflows of migrants and persons in need of international protection. This solidarity may take different forms: — by assisting each other at places where the external border is under pressure: Frontex plays a key role in this respect; — by fostering daily cooperation between national authorities in the field of border surveillance: this is the purpose of the European Border Surveillance System (Eurosur), which is being progressively developed, since 2008; — by showing financial solidarity: the framework program on solidarity and management of migration flows for the period 2007‑13 has established a financial mechanism to improve management of migratory flows at EU level and to strengthen solidarity between Member States. Member States which are most exposed to migratory pressures and those placed at the external borders of the EU must receive adequate financial compensation for the tasks they are carrying out in the interest of the Schengen area as a whole. EU funding must also be adapted so that it can be mobilised much more rapidly and flexibly; — by supporting those Member States most affected by large-scale inflows of persons in need of international protection; — by deploying — if the situation so requires –the European Asylum Support Office's teams to the most concerned Member States with a view to supporting the authorities. In order to obtain an exhaustive overview of the pertinent activities carried out at EU level in this field, the Commission would refer the Honourable Member to its recently published Annual Report on Immigration and Asylum (2010) COM(2011)291 final of 24.5.2011. as well as to the Commission Staff Working Document SEC(2011)620 final of 24.5.2011. accompanying this communication. The role of Frontex in the field of border management and return are dealt with in depth in Section II.1 and III.1 of the latter document.