use of European and international instruments in force within the European Union; Amendment 13 Article 3, paragraph 2, point (f) (f) provide the European institutions, the judicial authorities of the Member States, members of the European Judicial Network created by Joint Action 98/428/JHA and any other entity responsible for judicial cooperation in criminal matters within the European Union with consistent and regularly updated training tools; (f) provide the European institutions, the judicial authorities of the Member States, members of the European Judicial Network created by Joint Action 98/428/JHA and any other entity responsible for judicial cooperation within the European Union with consistent and regularly updated training tools; Amendment 14 Article 4, paragraph 2, point (a), indents 1 and 2 (a) - understanding of European judicial systems; (a) - understanding of national and European legal and judicial systems; - knowledge of judicial cooperation mechanisms; - knowledge of judicial cooperation mechanisms and the substance of legislation ; Amendment 15 Article 6, paragraph 1, point (a) (a) a secure electronic information exchange network , access to which shall be limited to Network members; (a) a secure electronic information exchange network for members of the judiciary ; Amendment 16 Article 7, paragraph 1 1. The bodies of the Network shall be the Governing Board and the General Secretariat. The Network shall be assisted by a Scientific Committee. 1. The bodies of the Network shall be the Governing Board and the General Secretariat. The Network shall be assisted by a Scientific Committee. The General Secretariat shall assist the European Judicial Training Network in the performance of its administrative tasks and the implementation of the programme of activities. The General Secretariat shall be provided by the Commission. The General Secretariat shall be provided temporarily by the Commission. Two years after the entry into force of this Decision, the Commission shall carry out an assessment; thereafter, the Governing Board may decide to change the location of the General Secretariat . Amendment 17 Article 7, paragraph 2 2. The Governing Board shall be made up of Network members, designated by the Member States pursuant to Article 2(2) , a Commission representative, a representative of the General Secretariat of the Council and a representative of the Council of Europe . A representative of the Member State holding the Presidency of the Council shall act as Chairman of the Governing Board, assisted by a representative of the next Presidency. 2. The Governing Board shall be made up of Network members, designated by the Member States pursuant to Article 2(2). Each delegation shall have one vote. Representatives of the General Secretariat of the Council and the Commission may attend meetings . A representative of the Member State holding the Presidency of the Council shall act as Chairman of the Governing Board, assisted by a representative of the next Presidency. Amendment 18 Article 8 1. The Governing Board shall set up a Scientific Committee, made up of experts who are recognised at European level for their knowledge and practical experience of judicial training. 2. The Scientific Committee shall be consulted when the programme of