Question for written answer E-011235/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Franz Obermayr (NI) (1 December 2011) Subject: Counterfeit medicinal products Countless counterfeit medicines and pills are put into circulation through the Internet. Most of the counterfeiters ignore the current standards governing drug manufacture. Accordingly, the products offered on the Internet are of questionable quality. The consequences often go beyond financial loss; in particular, there are inestimable repercussions in terms of damage to public health. Studies conducted by the World Health Organisation (WHO) have revealed that counterfeit medicines already account for one in ten medicinal products on the world market. The counterfeiting of medicinal products, the fraud it involves and, more importantly, the danger to the health of people in dire need of help is tantamount to ‘attempted mass murder’, as former European Commissioner Günter Verheugen phrased it back in 2009. Even now, anything that brings in money — from the anti-flu drug Tamiflu to hair restorer — can still be found on the Internet. Like potency pills, these items are falsified lifestyle products. 1. The EU Directive on prevention of the entry into the legal supply chain of falsified medicinal products was published in July 2011. Under the directive, medicinal products are to possess safety features which allow verification of the authenticity and identification of individual packs in the legal supply chain. The medicinal products to which the directive applies are still to be determined by the European Commission. What are the studies on which the European Commission will base the selection of these products? 2. Before the Commission can adopt the relevant delegated act, it must present a study that focuses especially on the assessment of technological options for counterfeit-proof coding. Which study will be used for this purpose? 3. It is unlikely that the coding of the relevant medicinal products can be introduced before 2015. Is this true? 4. Counterfeit-proof coding of medicinal products is to be made compulsory. How will consumers be able to recognise and identify medicinal products that are classed by the EU as safe?