payment appropriations (EUR 6 944 million) decrease by 6.5% compared to 2006. 20. The main drivers for the gap between increasing commitments and decreasing payments would appear to be in the areas of Research and Trans-European Networks (TENs). In both of these areas there is a large gap between commitments and planned payments in the PDB. For example, in the Preliminary Draft Budget Summary 2007 prepared by Parliament services, commitments for the Seventh Research Programme are EUR 5 486 million, but payments are only EUR 3 977 million. This is driven by the fact that there is a time-lag before appropriations translate into commitments as it takes time to set up spending projects within new programmes. Specialised committees may wish to examine this issue further. 21. Appropriations in heading 1a are spread across a range of policy areas (also sometimes referred to as budget "titles"). In the PDB, Heading 1a appropriations include: economic and financial affairs; enterprise; employment and social affairs; research; information society and media; direct research; fisheries and maritime affairs; internal market; taxation and customs union; education and culture; fight against fraud; administration and statistics. There are also p.m. notes/ lines such that appropriations could be made under regional policy, trade and budget. The remainder of the section looks at the major programmes and spending areas. Competitiveness and Innovation 22. An overall amount of EUR 388 million is proposed in the PDB for the new Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (CIP) . Actions funded under this programme will mainly aim at: - fostering entrepreneurial initiatives/ innovation and small business development; - completing, improving and managing the internal market; - preserving and enhancing the competitiveness of industry; - information society; - sustainable economic growth including energy. 23. This is spread across entrepreneurship and innovation (EUR 268 million), CIP Information and communications technology (ICT) policy support (EUR 54,7 million) and CIP intelligent energy (EUR 65 million) The pre-existing Intelligent Energy - Europe Programme is now included in the CIP. It is focused on security of energy supply, competitiveness, proper implementation of the energy regulatory framework, facilitating investment, energy efficiency, renewable energy sources, energy diversification, transport and awareness raising. Research 24. Research was one of the areas that saw an increase in funding during the negotiations on the MFF 2007-2013. The 7th Research Framework Programme is a key element of this sub-heading. 2007 is in the first budgetary year of the 7th Research Framework Programme, the main objectives of which are reflected in the different specific Programmes: Cooperation (research activities in trans-national cooperation); Ideas (new - excellence through competition); People (skills and career development); Capacities (use and development of research infrastructure). 25. As noted above, it there is such a large gap between commitment and payment appropriations for research in PDB 2007. More generally, further analysis is required in order fully to understand how the structure of spending on research is due to change in 2007 as a result of the start of the 7th Framework Programme and the changes to budgetary heading within the MFF. Education 26. The new Lifelong Learning Programme comprises: