Joint answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-4374/07 , E-4376/07 (16 October 2007) In its Declaration on Homophobia in Europe made to the Parliament on 25 April 2007, the Commission stated that homophobia is incompatible with the European Union's founding principles and represents a blatant violation of human dignity. In addition to ensuring the correct implementation of the current Directives under Article 13 of the EC Treaty, notably Council Directive 2000/78/EC Council Directive 2000/78/EC establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, OJ L 303, 2.12.2000. , including through legal action if needed, the Commission is now examining ways to complete the anti-discrimination package as already announced in the annual policy strategy 2008 COM(2007)65 final. . Accordingly, an impact assessment is under way to look at what action would be the most appropriate response to the lack of uniform protection against discrimination on grounds of religion and belief, age, disability and sexual orientation outside the sphere of employment, occupation and vocational training. The Commission expects to present its proposals by mid‑2008. As to campaigns, one of the key criteria for Member States' participation in the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All was a balanced treatment of the different grounds of discrimination set out in Article 13 of the EC Treaty including sexual orientation. In the framework of the European Year more than 430 actions are carried out at national level, including actions targeting schools, universities and media. A number of actions focus on discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation specifically, including for example in countries such as Cyprus, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania. Finally, regarding action taken to monitor the rise of homophobia, the Commission recalls that the Parliament has asked the Fundamental Rights Agency to conduct research on the situation concerning homophobia in the EU.