non-essential elements of this Directive or of the separate directives or regulations, or to supplement them by the addition of new non-essential elements, they should be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC. The same procedure should apply to adaptations needed for the type-approval of vehicles intended for persons with disabilities. Justification The possibility to amend the Framework Directive and the separate directives and regulations by comitology in order to allow the approval of vehicles adapted to the needs of persons with disabilities should be provided.Reference should be made to the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny laid down in Article 5a of Council Decision 1999/468/EC; as amended by Decision 2006/512/EC. Amendment 8 Recital 19 (19) Experience shows that appropriate measures may have to be taken without delay with a view to ensuring a better protection of road users, where shortcomings have been identified in the existing legislation. For such urgent cases, the necessary amendments to the separate directives or regulations should be adopted in accordance with Decision 1999/468/EC. (19) Experience shows that appropriate measures may have to be taken without delay with a view to ensuring a better protection of road users, where shortcomings have been identified in the existing legislation. For such urgent cases, the necessary amendments to the separate directives or regulations should be adopted in accordance with Decision 1999/468/EC. Since those measures are of general scope and are designed to amend non-essential elements of the separate directives or regulations or to supplement them by the addition of new non-essential elements, they should be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC. Justification Reference should be made to the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny laid down in Article 5a of Council Decision 1999/468/EC, as amended by Decision 2006/512/EC. Amendment 9 Recital 23 a (new) (23a) The requirements of this Framework Directive are in accordance with the principles enshrined in the Action plan introducing a Strategy for further coordinated action to simplify the regulatory environment ( COM(2002)0278 ). It is of particular importance that future measures proposed on the basis of this Directive or procedures to be implemented in application of it should comply with these principles, which have been recalled in the Commission communication on a Competitive Automotive Regulatory framework for the 21 st Century ( COM(2007)0022 ). Justification It is appropriate for the key piece of automotive regulation to be set into the broader context of the integrated approach endorsed by Commission, Parliament and Council Amendment 10 Article 2, paragraph 3 3. Type-approval or individual approval under this Directive is optional for the following vehicles: 3. Type-approval or individual approval under this Directive is optional for the following vehicles: (a) vehicles designed and constructed for use principally on construction sites or in quarries, port or airport facilities; (a) vehicles designed and constructed for use principally on construction sites or in quarries, port or airport facilities; (b) vehicles designed and constructed for use by the armed services, civil defence, fire services