Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (13 July 2011) 1. The Commission is not aware of problems of accessibility to timetables of regional trains operated by Trenitalia on their website. However, the Commission is aware that the German railway company Deutsche Bahn is making considerable efforts as part of their commercial strategy to provide to passengers timetable information through their website for train services in Germany and some other European countries. 2. The fact that the German railway undertaking is able to publish timetable of the Italian railway undertaking is indeed a good sign that the timetable data are shared between them. To ensure good information provision to European passengers, the Commission adopted on 5 May 2011 (and published on 12 May 2011) Regulation (EU) No 454/2011 OJ L 123, 12.5.2011. on the technical specification for interoperability relating to the subsystem ‘Telematics applications for passenger services’ of the trans-European rail system (TAP TSI) which contains in particular the obligation to share accurate harmonised timetable data with all railway undertakings, third parties and public bodies. It will allow other companies being able to publish timetables and to offer European rail journey planners. 3. The provision of accurate travel information by railway undertakings (and ticket vendors) to passengers before and during the journey is an obligation under Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 OJ L 315, 3.12.2007. . Accurate information enables the passenger to make satisfying travel choices and thus facilitates the development of rail transport. 4. The competitiveness of rail transport in the single transport market depends on the timely transposition and application of the rail regulatory framework. The Commission is in the process of checking its transposition. Besides the competition aspects of that framework, Regulation (EC) No 1371/2007 must be applied for the obligation to provide information to passengers on timetables.