for EU meetings (0044/2010). 13 Order of business The next item was the order of business. The final draft agenda for the May II sittings (PE 441.628/PDOJ) had been distributed and a number of changes had been proposed (Rule 140): Monday No changes. Tuesday No changes. Wednesday Request by Carlo Casini (Chair of the AFCO Committee) for the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions to be consulted by Parliament on the proposal for a regulation on the Citizens' Initiative under Articles 304 and 307 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Parliament agreed to the request ; the vote would be taken at noon on Wednesday. Request by the PPE Group with a view to taking a vote on the proposal for a decision in Ryszard Czarnecki 's report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the European Union general budget for the financial year 2008, Section II – Council ( A7-0096/2010 ) during voting time on Wednesday. The following spoke: Ingeborg Gräßle , on behalf of the PPE Group , who moved the request, Hannes Swoboda , on behalf of the S&D Group , who spoke in favour, and Bart Staes , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group , who spoke against. Parliament agreed to the request. The deadline for tabling amendments would be Tuesday, 18 May at noon. Request by the PPE Group to postpone the vote on the Edit Bauer report on working time of persons performing mobile road transport activities ( A7-0137/2010 ) until the June part-session. The following spoke: Edit Bauer (rapporteur) , who moved the request, Hannes Swoboda , on behalf of the S&D Group , who spoke against, and Corien Wortmann-Kool , on behalf of the PPE Group , who spoke in favour. Parliament agreed to the request by electronic vote (158 in favour, 137 against, 7 abstentions). Thursday Debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (Rule 122): Request by the PPE Group to replace item 152 on the preliminary draft agenda (' The arrest of journalist Ernest Vardanyan in Transnistria ') by a new item on the situation in Thailand. The following spoke: Cristian Dan Preda , who moved the request, Ioannis Kasoulides , on behalf of the PPE Group , who spoke in favour , and Francesco Enrico Speroni . Parliament agreed to the request. ° ° ° ° The order of business was thus established. 14 One-minute speeches on matters of political importance In accordance with Rule 150, the following Members who wished to draw the attention of Parliament to matters of political importance spoke for one minute: Georgios Papastamkos , Teresa Jiménez-Becerril Barrio , Rosa Estaràs Ferragut , Henri Weber , Tanja Fajon , Teresa Riera Madurell , Filiz Hakaeva Hyusmenova , Luigi de Magistris , Elisabeth Schroedter , Valdemar Tomaševski , Kyriacos Triantaphyllides , John Bufton , Andrew Henry William Brons , Slavi Binev , Eduard Kukan , Monica Luisa Macovei , Zoran Thaler , Ramon Tremosa i Balcells , Marie-Christine Vergiat , Martin