control systems, methodologies and working methods, devising training programmes and establishing new lines of responsibility; 30. Notes that initial experience with applying the new Financial Regulation in an institution such as Parliament, which has an administrative budget to manage, indicates that in some cases overly complex systems and financial circuits have been set up; 31. Calls on the Secretary-General to state how many staff members are currently engaged in control duties (ex-ante control, internal audit) and, by comparison, how many staff members there were in the former Directorate for Financial Control; calls on the Secretary-General in this connection to produce a comparative analysis and appraisal of the new system and the former financial control system which establishes whether increased staff resource deployment can be justified; 32. Reaffirms, yet again, the view expressed in paragraph 34 of its above-mentioned resolution of 12 April 2005 and in its resolutions of 21 April 2004 OJ L 330, 4.11.2004, p. 160. and 8 April 2003 OJ L 158, 16.6.2003, p. 62. that ‘the scope of the discharge procedure should cover not only the management activities of Parliament's Secretary-General and Administration, but also the decisions taken by its governing bodies, i.e. its President, Bureau and Conference of Presidents’; 33. Strongly criticises its Bureau and competent committee for their inaction; calls on them to respond immediately to the request formulated in paragraphs 16 and 17 of its above‑mentioned resolution of 21 April 2004 for proposals intended to define the precise practical meaning of the political responsibility attaching to the members of Parliament's governing bodies as regards the exercise of powers and the taking of decisions with significant financial consequences; 34. Calls on the Bureau to consult fully, in advance, the individuals affected by its decisions in order to make decision-taking processes transparent; calls furthermore on the Bureau to submit an annual activity report, which, in keeping with democratic accountability, should be a component of the budget discharge procedure; 35. Stresses that Parliament grants discharge not to the Secretary-General, but, rather, to the President; therefore expects the President to make himself available to the Committee on Budgetary Control, during the discharge procedure, for a dialogue; The activity reports of the directors-general 36. Points out that Parliament's Secretary-General forwarded the 2004 activity reports of the directors-general to the Committee on Budgetary Control on 21 April 2005; points out further in that connection that the Secretary-General, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, declared that he had been given reasonable assurances that Parliament's budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control framework put in place afforded the requisite guarantees as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions; 37. Notes that the various activity reports differ widely in scope, length, form and the degree to which the information from services within directorates-general is incorporated; invites the Secretary-General, as proposed by the Court of Auditors last year (in paragraph 9.16 of the Court's 2003 Annual Report), to harmonise the presentation and structure of the activity reports in the future in order