Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (29 April 2009) Maritime safety law aims to ensure the availability of qualified deep-sea pilots. The International Maritime Organisation (IMO) recommends Recommendation on the use of adequately qualified deep-sea pilots in the Baltic (Resolution A.480 (XII) 19 November 1981). that ships which wish to avail themselves of deep-sea pilots in the area of the Baltic should only take pilots licensed by a pilotage authority of a Baltic coastal State, namely Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia or Sweden. The Baltic Pilotage Authorities Commission recommends masters of ships which are constrained by their draught, masters of ships other than registered in one of the Baltic states, infrequently sailing in the respective area coming from or being bound for ports in the Baltic Sea, and masters of oil tankers in loaded condition and all loaded chemical tankers and gas carriers, irrespective of size to avail themselves of deep-sea pilots, certified by a competent authority of a Baltic coastal state Adopted on 4 June 1985. . In so far as these recommendations have binding nature or aim at regulating in a collective manner gainful employment, self-employment and the provision of services, they are subject to the EC Treaty rules on the fundamental freedoms. In accordance with these rules Article 39 EC and Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 on freedom of movement for workers within the Community; Articles 43 and 49 EC on freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services. , EU migrant employed or self-employed workers must be treated in the same way as nationals as regards access to posts, working conditions and social and tax advantages and no unjustified barriers may impede or dissuade them from freely being employed or offer their services in another Member State. The Commission therefore considers that in general EU migrant employed or self-employed workers must have the same access to posts as deep-sea pilots as the citizens of the Baltic coastal States concerned. The Commission has no information about conditions regarding nationality for access to such posts under the national law of the Baltic coastal States. As far as the recognition of professional qualifications is concerned, Directive 2005/36/EC Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications (OJ L 255 of 30.09.2005). applies to fully qualified professionals wishing to pursue their profession, on either a self-employed or employed basis, in a EU/EEA Member State other than that in which they obtained their qualifications. Directive 2005/36/EC applies under the condition that the profession concerned is regulated in the host State, i.e. the access to or pursuit of which is subject to the possession of specific professional qualifications, and that there is no other specific EC legal instrument related to the recognition of qualifications for the profession concerned Cf. Recital 42 and Article 2(3) of Directive 2005/36/EC. . Since no other specific EC legislation covers qualifications of deep-sea pilots In particular, deep-sea pilots are not covered by Directive 2008/106/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council