exhaust gas by integration of the analyzer signal in accordance with Appendix 3 to this Annex, or in the diluted exhaust gas of a CVS full-flow dilution system by integration or by bag sampling in accordance with Appendix 3 to this Annex. For particulates, a proportional sample shall be collected from the diluted exhaust gas on a specified filter by either partial flow dilution or full-flow dilution. Depending on the method used, the diluted or undiluted exhaust gas flow rate shall be determined over the cycle to calculate the mass emission values of the pollutants. The mass emission values shall be related to the engine work to give the grams of each pollutant emitted per kilowatt-hour. During a prescribed transient cycle of operating conditions, with the engine warmed up and not warmed up at a ratio of 8:2 , based closely on the operating conditions of diesel engines installed in nonroad machinery, the above pollutants shall be examined. Using the engine torque and speed feedback signals of the engine dynamometer, the power shall be integrated with respect to the time of the cycle, resulting in the work produced by the engine over the cycle. The concentrations of the gaseous components shall be determined over the cycle, either in the raw exhaust gas by integration of the analyzer signal in accordance with Appendix 3 to this Annex, or in the diluted exhaust gas of a CVS full-flow dilution system by integration or by bag sampling in accordance with Appendix 3 to this Annex. For particulates, a proportional sample shall be collected from the diluted exhaust gas on a specified filter by either partial flow dilution or full-flow dilution. Depending on the method used, the diluted or undiluted exhaust gas flow rate shall be determined over the cycle to calculate the mass emission values of the pollutants. The mass emission values shall be related to the engine work to give the grams of each pollutant emitted per kilowatt-hour. Justification In practice it is not possible to assume that the engine will be warm. Machines are started up on site, which must be reflected in the test. During a transient cycle of operating conditions, therefore, the test should also take appropriate account of the behaviour of the engine at ambient temperature, applying an 8:2 ratio for warmed up vis-à-vis non-warmed up engines. Amendment 41 ANNEX I, POINT 2(d) Annex III, Section 4.5, last box (Directive 97/68/EG) Run Hot Cycle exhaust emissions test within 5 minutes either from engine shut down or from running engine that has been brought down to idle conditions. Run exhaust emissions test twice for ambient temperature cycle and eight times for hot cycle within 5 minutes either from engine shut down or from running engine that has been brought down to idle conditions. Justification In practice it is not possible to assume that the engine will be warm. Machines are started up on site, which must be reflected in the test. During a transient cycle of operating conditions, therefore, the test should also take appropriate account of the behaviour of the