with. Member States shall ensure that these measures are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. 2. Member States shall determine the sanctions to be applied for failure to co-operate in an investigation. 3. Member States shall provide that the competent authority may disclose to the public any measure or sanction that will be imposed for infringement of the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive, unless the disclosure would jeopardise the financial markets or cause disproportionate damage to the parties involved. Article 49 Right of appeal 1. Member States shall ensure that any decision taken under laws, regulations or administrative provisions adopted in accordance with this Directive is properly reasoned and is open to appeal or review by the courts. The same shall apply where, in respect of an application for authorisation which provides all the information required, no decision is taken within six months of its submission. 2. With regard to the right of appeal referred to in paragraph 1, Member States shall provide that public bodies or their representatives as determined by national law, may, in the interests of consumers and in accordance with national law, take action before the competent authority or the courts. Article 50 Extra-judicial mechanism for investors" complaints 1. Member States shall set up efficient and effective complaints and redress procedures for the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes concerning the provision of investment and ancillary services provided by investment firms, using existing bodies where appropriate. 2. Member States shall cooperate to identify, share and encourage best practice and shall ensure that those bodies are not prevented by legal or regulatory provisions from cooperating effectively in the resolution of cross-border disputes. Article 51 Professional secrecy 1. Member States shall ensure that all persons who work or who have worked for the competent authorities or bodies to whom functions are delegated pursuant to Article 46(2), as well as auditors and experts instructed by the competent authorities, are bound by the obligation of professional secrecy. No confidential information which they may receive in the course of their duties may be divulged to any person or authority whatsoever, save in summary or aggregate form such that individual investment firms cannot be identified, without prejudice to cases covered by criminal law. 2. Where an investment firm has been declared bankrupt or is being compulsorily wound up, confidential information which does not concern third parties involved in attempts to rescue that investment firm may be divulged in civil or commercial proceedings. Article 52 Relations with auditors 1. Member States shall provide at least that any person authorised within the meaning of Council Directive 84/253/EEC OJ L 126, 12.5.1985, p. 20. , performing in an investment firm the task described in Article 51 of Council Directive 78/660/EEC OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11. , Article 37 of Directive 83/349/EEC or Article 31 of Directive 85/611/EEC or any other task prescribed by law, shall have a duty to report promptly to the competent authorities any fact or decision concerning that undertaking of which that person has become aware while carrying out that task and which is liable