all parties concerned as soon as possible. Costs for the development of the second generation Schengen Information System as well as costs of setting up, testing, migrating, operating and maintaining Central SIS II and the communication infrastructure are to be borne by the general budget of the European Union. The costs of developing, setting up, testing, migrating, operating and maintaining for the national systems are borne by the Member State concerned. The costs for the Global Programme Management Board (GPMB) shall be covered by the funds already allocated until 2013. Since 2002 EUR 48.5 Mio have been spent on the development of the migration instrument alone, whereas operational costs amount to a further EUR 33 Mio. During this period, the contractor has repeatedly violated contractual obligations and tests have not proven the platform to function properly, putting the general technical feasibility of the SIS II into question. Furthermore, the contractor has received EUR 1.93 Mio for system tests in 2009 while the fines to the consortium amounting to 390 000 Euro at the end of the contractual phase of the operation tests in September 2009 have been offset against invoices. A further EUR 1.26 Mio has been paid for the first milestone test in January 2010. These additional expenses as well as a probable further investment necessary, should a migration to SIS II fail and an alternative solution be recommended, call for much tighter budgetary scrutiny. Furthermore, in view of extreme budgetary constraints because of the economic crisis, both for Member States and for the Union itself, and so as not to continue to throw good money after bad, particular rigour is called for in using appropriations for a system which has so far failed to reach the required standard. Your rapporteur recommends Parliament uses its right to hold funds allocated to the migration to the SIS II in reserve pending successful testing and a comprehensive audit so as to ensure and maintain a high level of security within the area of justice, freedom and security. Hence the proposed amendments. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 Draft Legislative Resolution Paragraph 1a (new) Draft Legislative Resolution Amendment 1a. Notwithstanding the fact that Council is treating SIS 1+ RE as a contingency plan in the event of a failure of SIS II, the European Parliament, as co-legislator for the establishment of the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) (Regulation (EC) No 1987/2006 OJ L 381, 28.12.2006, p. 4. ) and budgetary authority, reserves its right to hold in reserve the funds to be allocated for the development of the SIS II in the 2011 annual budget, in order to ensure full parliamentary scrutiny and oversight of the process. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) The preconditions for migration will not be met by 30 June 2010. In order for SIS II to become operational as required by