of the independent actuary’s assessment of the proposal " (Mr STRACHAN, H4). The independent actuary stated in his report that " from an actuarial point of view the terms of the Scheme have been established in a fair and reasonable way " (WE-CONF 9 Summary of the Independent Actuary's Report; page 125. ). Policyholders, however, alleged that the actuary failed to address a number of important issues, which would have been important for policyholders' understanding of the proposal (see WE-CONF 16) and furthermore questioned his independence from ELAS (see WE 75). In its assessment of the compromise scheme (WE 67) the FSA concludes as follows: " The FSA is content that, in relation to the relevant groups of guaranteed annuity rate (“GAR”) and non-GAR policyholders, the level of increase to policy values is a fair offer in exchange for the GAR rights and potential mis-selling claims that would be given up. While there are variations from person to person, within each relevant group, we are content that there are no categories of policyholder within the groups who would receive disproportionately greater or lesser benefits ". The FSA furthermore suggests that, " the scheme of arrangements was in policyholders' interests and was an appropriate way of removing the uncertainties that were adversely affecting the firm; accordingly we saw no reason to make representations to the court, which had final responsibility for the decision " (WE-CONF 8). ES 3 Page 9. does not comment on the fairness of the Compromise Scheme but rather points out its advantages in general: " Firstly, it provided certainty for the parties concerned, shielding policyholders (and Equitable) for extensive and costly litigation. Secondly, it met with the approval of the regulator (FSA), the majority of members, and the court. Thirdly, it enabled a deal with Halifax plc to materialise under the best possible terms. Fourthly, it seems preferable to other alternatives, such as the winding-up of Equitable. " The authors of ES 3 express their view that " on balance, an aggrieved policyholder is more likely to get satisfaction through a system of collective satisfaction, such as the Compromise Scheme, than through individual recourse to legal remedies ", without further elaborating on this point. In summary, evidence suggests that the primary aim of the Compromise Scheme of Arrangement, which took legal effect on 8 February 2002 after it had been approved by the requisite majority of policyholders and sanctioned by the High Court, was to remove legal uncertainties and liabilities from Equitable Life and thereby stabilise the fund. The Scheme, however, did not serve to compensate policyholders for losses they had incurred through the 2001 reduction in policy values, which was caused by a number of particular circumstances at Equitable, including the Society's practice during the 1990s of paying excessive bonuses. In particular, the uplifts in policy values granted to non-GAR policyholders, who in exchange waived their right to pursue claims, were more than eliminated by subsequent cuts. Numerous accounts suggest that the Society may have been aware at the time it proposed the scheme that the uplifts in