21.9.2005 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on statements by the Council and Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Umberto Pirilli, Roberta Angelilli, Guntars Krasts and Roberts Zīle on behalf of the UEN Group on the increase in the price of oil and oil dependency European Parliament resolution on the increase in the price of oil and oil dependency The European Parliament , – having regard to the difficult situation and disturbance which the rising price of oil is causing throughout the Union, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas in the past days the world economy has suffered a full-scale 'oil shock' which threatens to have a greater impact on the European Union than on the United States, B. whereas the oil situation was already difficult, and the last year has seen the biggest increase in the price of oil, which rose from USD 25 a barrel in 2002 to USD 45 a barrel in January 2005, before rising again to the current price of USD 65, C. whereas the situation is exacerbated by the overall increase in energy consumption in Europe, which is strongly dependent on oil, D. whereas on 9 September 2005 the Commission invited oil experts from the 25 Member States to assess the level of emergency oil stocks in the various Member States, E. whereas emergency oil stocks are covered by Council Directive 73/238/EEC and serve to mitigate any difficulties in the supply of petroleum and petroleum products in the EU, F. whereas Member States are obliged to communicate their action plans to reduce oil consumption and dependence under the provisions of Council Decision 77/707/EEC, G. whereas Union policy is becoming increasingly oriented towards alternative sources of energy supply in order to offset the continual increases in the cost of oil, H. whereas Commissioner Piebalgs has expressed the view that the current situation is very different from past experience in that it is permanent rather than temporary, I. whereas the gap between oil demand and supply is continually shrinking and the lack of transparency in the oil market favours widespread speculation, 1. Considers that in order to address the current emergency it is necessary to launch a coordinated energy policy and a concerted effort on the part of all Member States, undertakings and citizens; 2. Supports the action the Commission is taking in the renewables sector with a view to reducing demand for oil by 2020; 3. Considers, moreover, that the efforts made by Commissioner Piebalgs to increase our reliance on other sources of energy, both with regard to the biomass action plan and the prospect of greater use of renewable energy in future, offer the only possibility of reducing oil dependency; 4. Considers that using renewable energy sources would not only make it possible to reduce the problems caused by the high cost of oil, but at the same time would have very beneficial effects on the environment; 5. Considers that it is essential for the Member States to adopt a plan