Seimas, although he may be held liable according to the general procedure for personal insult or slander, F. whereas Mr Uspaskich is essentially charged with offences of false accounting in relation to the financing of a political party during a period prior to his election to the European Parliament, G. whereas no cogent evidence has been adduced as to the existence of any fumus persecutionis and the offences with which Mr Uspaskich is charged have nothing to do with his activities as a Member of the European Parliament, H. whereas it is therefore appropriate to waive his immunity, 1. Decides to waive the immunity of Viktor Uspaskich; 2. Instructs its President to forward this decision, and the report of the committee responsible, immediately to the appropriate authority of the Republic of Lithuania. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT I. F ACTS At the sitting of 7 October 2009 the President announced, under Rule 6(2) of the Rules of Procedure, that he had received a letter sent by the Lithuanian judicial authorities on 14 July 2009 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Uspaskich. The President referred the request to the Committee on Legal Affairs under Rule 6(2). The Chief Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Lithuania was instructed, by decision of the Regional Court of Vilnius of 29 June 2009, to ask the European Parliament to waive the immunity of its Member Viktor Uspaskich, against whom criminal proceedings have been brought in Case No 1-38/2009, in order that the criminal proceedings initiated against him may go ahead and the bail order made against him by the court as a precautionary measure may be enforced. Viktor Uspaskich is accused in proceedings pending in the Vilnius Regional Court of criminal offences under Article 24(4) in conjunction with Article 222(1), Article 220(1), Article 24(4) in conjunction with Article 220(1), Article 205(1) and Article 24(4) in conjunction with Article 205(1) of the Lithuanian Criminal Code. The case against Viktor Uspaskich is that, in Vilnius between 13 July 2004 and 17 May 2006, as chair of the Labour Party, acting in concert with others for the purposes of (a) attempting to finance a political party – namely the Labour Party – illegally and (b) evading proper supervision of the financing of the party and its political campaigns, he directed an organised group created by them in order to perpetrate a number of criminal offences. To that end, from 2004 to 2006, in Vilnius, he directed staff to keep unlawful bogus accounts for the Labour Party, with the result that it is not possible to establish in full the extent of the party’s assets and liabilities or the party structure during the years 2004, 2005 and 2006. Viktor Uspaskich - who was responsible, under Article 21 of the Accounting Act of the Republic of Lithuania, for organising the keeping of the party’s accounts and was acting for the benefit and in the interests of the Labour Party as a legal person - is accused by the Lithuanian authorities of having instructed a person to undertake "double" bookkeeping for the Labour