changes had been proposed. Council request for the application of urgent procedure (Rule 134) for: - Proposal for a regulation imposing certain restrictive measures in support of effective implementation of the mandate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia ( COM(2004)0348 – C6-0041/2004 – 2004/0114(CNS) ) Reason for request: In order to prevent funds and economic resources that should be frozen from being moved, it is essential that this regulation be adopted as soon as possible. Council request for the application of urgent procedure (Rule 134) for: - Proposal for a regulation establishing an instrument of financial support for encouraging the economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community ( COM(2004)0465 – C6-0098/2004 – 2004/0145(CNS) ) Reason for request: To facilitate the reunification of Cyprus, the proposal seeks to implement the Council's conclusions on Cyprus, as stated on 26 April 2004, as soon as possible. Parliament would vote on these requests at the beginning of the following day's sitting. The order of business was thus established. 15 One-minute speeches on matters of political importance Pursuant to Rule 144, the following Members who wished to draw the attention of Parliament to matters of political importance spoke for one minute: Ryszard Czarnecki , Avril Doyle , Evangelia Tzampazi , Diana Wallis , Margrietus J. van den Berg , Sarah Ludford , Proinsias De Rossa , Marilisa Xenogiannakopoulou , Roger Helmer , Roberta Angelilli , Ilda Figueiredo , Thijs Berman , Georgios Toussas , Struan Stevenson , Mario Borghezio , Jozsef Szajer , Manolis Mavrommatis , Charles Tannock , James Hugh Allister , Carlo Fatuzzo and Bogusław Rogalski . Robert J.E. Evans mentioned Council Question Time (the President replied that even though it had not been possible to translate some questions into all languages, they would nevertheless be included in the list of questions). 16 Recent environmental disasters (fires in southern Europe) (statement followed by debate) Commission statement: Recent environmental disasters (fires in southern Europe) Margot Wallström (Member of the Commission) made the statement. The following spoke: María Esther Herranz García , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, and María Isabel Salinas García , on behalf of the PSE Group . IN THE CHAIR: Alejo VIDAL-QUADRAS ROCA Vice-President The following spoke: David Hammerstein Mintz , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Ilda Figueiredo , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Carlos Coelho , Jamila Madeira , Cristina Gutiérrez-Cortines , Rosa Miguélez Ramos , Kader Arif and Margot Wallström . The debate closed. 17 International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) (oral question with debate) Oral question by Paolo Costa , on behalf of the TRAN Committee, on the meeting of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) ( B6-0013/2004 ). Paolo Costa moved the oral question. Margot Wallström (Member of the Commission) answered the oral question. The following spoke: Ingo Schmitt , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Willi Piecyk , on behalf of the PSE Group, Dirk Sterckx , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Michael Cramer , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Johannes (Hans) Blokland , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Dorette Corbey