of the SPE and its supervisory body, if any, from the date on which they are signed or, in the case of amendments, adopted; (b) in relation to third parties, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable national law implementing paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of Article 3 of Directive 68/151/EEC. (b) in relation to third parties, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable national law implementing paragraphs 2, 5, 6 and 7 of Article 3 of Directive 68/151/EEC. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 2 1 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3a. A copy of each registration of an SPE and copies of all subsequent amendments thereto shall be sent by the respective national registers to a European register managed by the Commission and the competent national authorities and held in that European register. The Commission shall monitor the data entered in that register, particularly with a view to avoiding possible abuses and mistakes. If the SPE is unable to demonstrate th at it complies with Article 3 ( 1 )( eb ) within two years of registration, it shall be converted into the appropriate national legal form. Amendment 2 2 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Application for registration shall be made by the founding shareholders of the SPE or by any person authorised by them. Such application may be made by electronic means. 1. Application for registration shall be made by the founding shareholders of the SPE or by any person authorised by them. Such application may be made by electronic means , in accordance with the provisions of the applicable national law implementing Article 3(2) of Directive 68/151/EEC . 2. Member States shall not require any particulars and documents to be supplied upon application for the registration of a SPE other than the following: 2. Member States shall not require any particulars or documents to be supplied upon application for the registration of a SPE other than the following: (a) the name of the SPE and the address of its registered office; (a) the name of the SPE and the address of its registered office; (b) the names, addresses and any other information necessary to identify the persons who are authorised to represent the SPE in dealings with third parties and in legal proceedings, or take part in the administration, supervision or control of the SPE; (b) the names, addresses and any other information necessary to identify the persons who are members of the executive management body, and those who are authorised to represent the SPE in dealings with third parties and in legal proceedings, or take part in the administration, supervision or control of the SPE; (ba) the business object ive , including an explanation of the cross-border component of the business object ive of the SPE, where appropriate; (c) the share capital of the SPE; (c) the share capital of the SPE; (ca) the list of shareholders in accordance with Article 15; (d) the share classes