the sanctions referred to in Article 1 of that F ramework D ecision. 2. In cases of non-re s p onse referred to in paragraph 1, but in respect of penalties which do not fall within the scope of that F ramework D ecision , the competent authority of the State of infringement shall transmit the final decision to the competent authority of the State of residence for enforcement of the penalty. Justification This amendment seeks to ensure the possibility of enforcement of the financial penalties transmitted to the holder which are left unpaid by the latter either through Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA, or through the transmission of the final decision to the State of residence of the holder of the vehicle registration certificate. Amendment 30 Proposal for a directive Article 5 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 5b Recognition and enforcement of sanctions 1. The competent authority of the State of residence shall, without any other formality, recognise a final administrative decision imposing a sanction communicated to it pursuant to Article 5a(2) and, without delay, take every step required to enforce it, except where it decides to invoke one of the following grounds for non-recognition or non-enforcement: (a) the law of the State of residence provides for immunity which makes implementation of the decision impossible; (b) the party concerned has not been informed of his or her right of appeal and of the deadline for lodging such an appeal. 2. Enforcement of the decision imposing the sanction by the competent authority of the State of residence shall be governed by the law of the State of residence in the same ways as a financial penalty in the State of residence. 3. The competent authority of the State of offence shall immediately inform the competent authority of the State of residence of any decision or measure which stands in the way of implementation of the decision. The competent authority of the State of residence shall cease the implementation of the decision as soon as it has been informed of that decision or measure by the competent authority of the State of the offence. Justification This amendment provides for a system, applying to relations between Member States, enabling sanction decisions to be recognised and enforced in cases where Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA is not applicable. Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 5 c Information transmitted by the State of residence The competent authority of the State of residence shall forthwith inform the competent authority of the State of offence by any means , in which the following is recorded in writing, of: (a) the transmission of the decision to the competent authority; (b) any decision not to implement a decision together with the reasons justifying such a decision ; (c) the implementation of the decision as soon as it has been completed. Justification This amendment completes the system of recognition and transmission of offences, as detailed in the preceding amendments, by providing that the State of residence must inform the State