only has to know his own ombudsman. " He also described the Commission's role with regard to FIN-NET: " We as the Commission, are the coordinators of this network, ... we organise the practical aspects ... we organise, convene and host the meetings and issue short minutes of these meetings. [While] we act as both secretary and coordinators, ... we do not intervene directly in the handling of cases ." Between 600 and 800 cases are handled by FIN-NET each year, according to Mr DUCOULOMBIER. He added that " no cases have been reported to us where an ombudsman has breached the FIN-NET arrangements by not transferring a given case to the scheme responsible, so we have every reason to believe that the arrangements which are in place are in fact working ". A number of other witnesses also made reference to FIN-NET in general. Mr MAXWELL stated that FIN-NET is " looking at ways to help ... cooperate more effectively ": He emphasised that it is not based on a piece of European law but rather a voluntary cooperation arrangement which " is developing, albeit slowly " (H4). Mr MERRIKS refers to FIN-NET in WE 56: " The UK Financial Ombudsman Service is a founder-member of FIN-NET. ... The FIN-NET memorandum of understanding provides for complaints to be handled by the scheme in the Member State where the relevant branch of the financial institution was situated. In WE 62, the current Irish Financial Services Ombudsman Mr MEADE stated the following in relation to FIN-NET: " I am ... a signatory to the Memorandum of Understanding on ... FIN-NET. The Ombudsman has an obligation under FIN-NET to ensure efficient exchange of information between European ombudsmen. ... If I receive a complaint from an Irish resident about a financial service provider regulated by a Regulatory Authority in another EEA member state, which is comparable to the Financial Regulator here, I may refer that complaint to the Ombudsman Scheme of the appropriate EEA member state to be dealt with there. For example, if a complaint is received about a UK financial service provider operating in Ireland but regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the UK, such a complaint may be referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service in the UK for investigation and vice versa ." Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9) informed the committee that at present 49 ombudsman schemes from 21 countries are members of FIN-NET. The network does not cover all EU Member States. This is, firstly, because " in some Members States ... there is no alternative redress available " (Mr DUCOULOMBIER, H9). Secondly, certain schemes in other Member States have decided not to join. " Maybe some of them thought they were not in a position to fulfil all the criteria which are needed to be member of FIN-NET, one of them being independence [from] the regulator " (Mr DUCOULOMBIER, H9). The Commission aims to fill these geographic gaps by " encouraging " Member States to establish proper ADRs within their respective territories. " We are working very hard to fill these