country in which they are established or with those of the country of the contracting authority or those of the country where the contract is to be performed; e) they have been the subject of a judgment which has the force of res judicata for fraud, corruption, involvement in a criminal organisation or any other illegal activity detrimental to the Communities' financial interests; f) following another procurement procedure or grant award procedure financed by the Community budget, they have been declared to be in serious breach of contract for failure to comply with their contractual obligations. 2. Candidates or tenderers must certify that they are not in one of the situations listed in paragraph 1. Article 94 Contracts may not be awarded to candidates or tenderers who, during the procurement procedure: a) are subject to a conflict of interest; b) are guilty of misrepresentation in supplying the information required by the contracting authority as a condition of participation in the contract procedure or fail to supply this information. Article 95 Each institution shall establish a central database containing details of candidates and tenderers who are in one of the situations described in Articles 93 and 94. The sole purpose of the database shall be to ensure, in compliance with Community rules on the processing of personal data, the correct application of Articles 93 and 94. Each institution shall have access to the databases of the other institutions. Article 96 Administrative or financial penalties may be imposed by the contracting authority on candidates or tenderers who are in one of the cases of exclusion provided for in Articles 93 and 94, after they have been given the opportunity to present their observations. These penalties may consist: a) in the exclusion of the candidate or tenderer concerned from contracts and grants financed by the budget, for a maximum period of five years; b) in the payment of financial penalties by the contractor in the case referred to in Article 93(1)(f) and by the candidate or tenderer in the cases referred to in Article 94 where they are really serious and without exceeding the value of the contract in question. The penalties imposed shall be in proportion to the importance of the contract and the seriousness of the misconduct. Article 97 1. The selection criteria for evaluating the capability of candidates or tenderers and the award criteria for evaluating the content of the tenders shall be defined in advance and set out in the call for tender. 2. Contracts may be awarded by the automatic award procedure or by the best-value-for-money procedure. Article 98 1. The arrangements for submitting tenders shall ensure that there is genuine competition and that the contents of tenders remain confidential until they are all opened simultaneously. 2. The contracting authority may require tenderers, as provided in the implementing rules, to lodge a security in advance as a guarantee that the bids made will not be withdrawn. 3. With the exception of the contracts involving small amounts referred to in Article 91(3), applications and tenders shall be opened by an opening