a phase to implement the plan to modernise air traffic management in the Community, which will consist of two successive steps : development (2008-2013) and deployment (2014-2020). (6) The definition phase will be followed by two successive phases : a development phase (2008-2013) and a deployment phase (2014-2020). Justification This amendment should be considered in conjunction with the amendment to Article 1(1a) (new), whose justification makes the case for three distinct phases that are interdependent. Amendment 5 Recital 6 a (new) (6a) Each phase should lay down the main elements of its content and for the deployment phase the legal provisions should be stated in a separate proposal. Justification This amendment should be considered together with Amendment to Article 1(1a) (new). The latter gives a fuller justification. Amendment 6 Recital 7 (7) In accordance with Article 15(3) of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004, the route charges can provide income to finance projects aimed at supporting specific categories of airspace users and/or air navigation service providers in order to improve the collective air navigation structures, the supply of air navigation services and the use of airspace. deleted Justification An additional levy on air navigation charges must be avoided. User charges will already contribute to the programme via Eurocontrol. A successful definition phase should deliver a clear business case triggering the necessary private investment (and public funding). Amendment 7 Recital 11 (11) The public budget for the implementation phase of the SESAR project should be supplemented by contributions from the private sector. (11) The public budget for the development and deployment phases of the SESAR project should be supplemented by contributions from the private sector. During the development phase these contributions should amount to 50% of the budget. Justification SESAR should allow industry to fully bring in its expertise. But if SESAR is to be an industry-led initiative, this has also to be reflected in the financing of the development phase. Amendment 8 Recital 12 (12) Taking into account the number of players who will need to be involved in this process, and the financial resources and technical expertise needed, it is vital to set up a legal entity capable of ensuring the coordinated management of the funds assigned to the SESAR project during its implementation phase. (12) Taking into account the number of players who will need to be involved in this process, and the financial resources and technical expertise needed, it is vital to set up a legal entity capable of ensuring the coordinated management of the funds assigned to the SESAR project during its development phase. Justification The Commission text is not clear in the sense that 'implementation' does not constitute a phase of its own. Implementation - according to the amendment to Article 1(1a) (new) - is present in all three phases. Amendment 9 Recital 13 (13) This entity , which is responsible for managing a public research programme of European interest , must be considered as an international organisation within the meaning of the second indent of Article 15(10) of the Sixth Council Directive 77/388/EEC of 17 May 1977 on