deployment of UN forces; 3. Stresses the need to sign an agreement with representative rebel organisations so as to ensure that it is not massively rejected by the peoples of Darfur; 4. Calls on the Sudanese Government to end impunity from prosecution and bring to justice those guilty of human rights violations in Darfur; urges the Sudanese Government in this context to cooperate with the International Criminal Court to ensure the Prosecutor safe access to Darfur; 5. Calls on all warring parties to allow safe access to the battle zones and ensure the safety of all aid workers in accordance with international humanitarian law; 6. Calls for a significant increase in European Union humanitarian aid (75% of aid is currently provided by the United States) for the almost 3 million individuals totally dependent on international aid for food, shelter and medical care; 7. Notes the step taken in extending the mandate of the African Union peacekeeping force while stressing that this can only be a transitional stage; 8. Urges the Sudanese Government to accept the Security Council decision to launch a UN peacekeeping operation with a view to ending the genocidal violence and establish peace and stability in this troubled region; 9. Calls on the Chinese, Russian and Arab League countries to reconsider their positions regarding Darfur and give their support to this action, both in political terms through the UN resolution and in humanitarian terms; 10. Is concerned at the regional implications of the Darfur conflict for neighbouring countries; 11. Recalls the commitments by the international community following the Rwanda genocide while stressing in particular that the current international presence in the DRC bears eloquent testimony to the desire of the international community to assume more effectively its political responsibility in Africa; 12. Recalls that the European Union has a major role to play in political terms and in terms of humanitarian aid; 13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the ACP-EU Council of Ministers, the Government of Sudan, the African Union and the UN Secretary-General.