draft legislative resolution, then on the draft legislative resolution as a whole, which shall contain only a statement as to whether Parliament approves, rejects or proposes amendments to the Commission's proposal and any procedural requests. The consultation procedure is concluded if the draft legislative resolution is adopted. If Parliament does not adopt the legislative resolution, the proposal shall be referred back to the committee responsible. All reports tabled under the legislative procedure should conform to the provisions of Rules 35, 40 and 42. Any non-legislative motion for a resolution tabled by a committee should be in accordance with the referral procedures provided for in Rule 45 or 179. 3. The text of the proposal as approved by Parliament and the accompanying resolution shall be forwarded to the Council and Commission by the President as Parliament's opinion. Rule 52 Rejection of a Commission proposal 1. If a Commission proposal fails to secure a majority of the votes cast, the President shall, before Parliament votes on the draft legislative resolution, request the Commission to withdraw the proposal. 2. If the Commission does so, the President shall hold the consultation procedure on the proposal to be superfluous and shall inform the Council accordingly. 3. If the Commission does not withdraw its proposal, Parliament shall refer the matter back to the committee responsible without voting on the draft legislative resolution. In this case, the committee responsible shall, orally or in writing, report back to Parliament within a period decided by Parliament which may not exceed two months. 4. If the committee responsible is unable to meet the deadline, it shall request referral back to committee pursuant to Rule 168(1). If necessary, Parliament may set a new time limit pursuant to Rule 168(5). If the committee's request is not accepted, Parliament shall move to the vote on the draft legislative resolution. Rule 53 Adoption of amendments to a Commission proposal 1. Where the Commission proposal as a whole is approved, but on the basis of amendments which have also been adopted, the vote on the draft legislative resolution shall be postponed until the Commission has stated its position on each of Parliament's amendments. If the Commission is not in a position to make such a statement at the end of Parliament's vote on its proposal, it shall inform the President or the committee responsible as to when it will be in a position to do so; the proposal shall then be placed on the draft agenda of the first part-session thereafter. 2. Where the Commission announces that it does not intend to adopt all Parliament's amendments, the rapporteur of the committee responsible or, failing him, the chairman of that committee shall make a formal proposal to Parliament as to whether the vote on the draft legislative resolution should proceed. Before submitting this proposal, the rapporteur or chairman of the committee responsible may request the President to suspend consideration of the item. Should Parliament decide to postpone the vote, the matter shall be deemed to be referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration. In this case, the