the work of the Experts Platform, but rather support the process underway. The Rapporteur recommends gathering EU institutions and stakeholders at a yearly Retail Market Roundtable to follow-up on progress made in the dialogue. VI. Enhancing efficiency and sustainability − innovative practices Retail plays a major role in developing a sustainable economy and should continue to promote sustainable consumption by offering easy access to quality goods. Good examples of voluntary commitments include the ERRT Declaration on Energy, the WayAhead, the Retail Forum on Sustainability, the Global Forum on Sustainable Consumption, the Consumer Goods Forum and the Efficient Consumer Response. The Rapporteur encourages the retail sector to further invest in innovative solutions for logistics and transport, energy efficiency, as well as packaging and waste disposal. The Rapporteur also appeals for concerted action to combat food waste . Retail is a sector where social dialogue seems to work well. The Rapporteur welcomes the fact that EuroCommerce and UNI-Europa have reached a joint agreement and supports its content. VII. Way ahead Time has come to recognise the retail sector’s achievements, specific problems and challenges. The Rapporteur calls for an integrated European Action Plan for Retail, to develop a policy framework with concrete proposals to address outstanding issues with a pragmatic approach. Finally, the ball is now in the hands of the retail community. Voluntary initiatives should be closely monitored and evaluated by EU institutions. Any other option should not be excluded a priori. The way ahead will depend on the effectiveness of self-regulation. RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE Date adopted 25.5.2011 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 32 3 0 Members present for the final vote Pablo Arias Echeverría, Adam Bielan, Cristian Silviu Buşoi, Lara Comi, Anna Maria Corazza Bildt, António Fernando Correia De Campos, Jürgen Creutzmann, Evelyne Gebhardt, Louis Grech, Małgorzata Handzlik, Malcolm Harbour, Iliana Ivanova, Sandra Kalniete, Eija-Riitta Korhola, Edvard Kožušník, Hans-Peter Mayer, Phil Prendergast, Mitro Repo, Robert Rochefort, Zuzana Roithová, Heide Rühle, Christel Schaldemose, Andreas Schwab, Laurence J.A.J. Stassen, Catherine Stihler, Kyriacos Triantaphyllides, Emilie Turunen, Bernadette Vergnaud, Barbara Weiler Substitute(s) present for the final vote Regina Bastos, Cornelis de Jong, Constance Le Grip, Morten Løkkegaard, Pier Antonio Panzeri, Konstantinos Poupakis