Council informed, without undue delay, about the impact of the adoption of the accreditation decisions on the proper conduct of the programmes. If the Commission considers that a decision taken by the Board may have a significant effect on the proper conduct of the programmes, for example in terms of costs and schedule, it shall urgently inform the European Parliament and the Council. 14. Taking into account the views of the European Parliament and of the Council, which should be expressed within one month, the Commission may adopt any adequate measures in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 683/2008. 15. The Administrative Board shall be regularly kept informed about the evolution of the work of the Security Accreditation Board. 14. The timetable for the work of the Board shall respect the GNSS work programme of the Commission. Article 9c Role of Member States Member States shall: - transmit to the Board all information they consider relevant for the purposes of security accreditation; - permit duly authorised persons appointed by the Board to have access to any classified information and to any areas/sites related to the security of systems falling within their jurisdiction, in conformity with their national laws and regulations, and without any discrimination on ground of nationality, including for the purposes of security audits and tests as decided by the Board; - each be responsible for devising a template for access control, which is to outline or list the areas/sites to be accredited, and which shall be agreed in advance between the Member States and the Board, thereby ensuring that the same level of access control is being provided by all Member States; - be responsible, at local level, for the accreditation of the security of areas that are located within their territory and form part of the security accreditation area for European GNSS systems, and report, to this end, to the Board. Chapter IV Budgetary and financial provisions Article 10 Budget 1. Without prejudice to other resources and dues yet to be defined, revenue of the Agency shall include a Union subsidy entered in the general budget of the European Union in order to ensure a balance between revenue and expenditure. 2. The expenditure of the Agency shall cover staff, administrative and infrastructure expenditure, operating costs and expenditure associated with the functioning of the Board, including any special bodies set up to assist it, and the contracts and agreements concluded by the Agency in order to accomplish the tasks entrusted to it. 3. The Executive Director shall draw up a draft statement of estimates of the revenue and expenditure of the Agency for the following year and shall forward it to the Administrative Board, together with a draft establishment plan. 4. Revenue and expenditure shall be in balance. 5. Each year the Administrative Board, on the basis of the draft statement of revenue and expenditure, shall produce a statement of estimates of revenue and expenditure for the Agency for the following financial year. 6. This statement of estimates, which shall include a draft establishment plan together with the provisional work programme,