in its communication on models of financial participation in public limited companies. Unfortunately it does not propose many options for SMEs. Your rapporteur however would welcome studies on the forms of participation that exist or would be appropriate for SMEs (possibly the concept of ‘employee participation capital’ should be introduced into European law which would be applicable to all forms of undertaking and would improve employees’ opportunities for participating as dormant partners). Account should also be taken of investment options outside the enterprise, whereby employees’ profit-shares earmarked for investment which were not invested in their own SME could with advantage be collected together and fed back into SMEs to finance jobs. In its resolutions on the Pepper I and II reports and the recommendation of 1992, Parliament proposed investment clubs for small businesses, societies for enterprise participation and investment cooperatives. Studies should also be conducted on the suitability for these purposes of the trusteeship funds which operate in Ireland and Great Britain (such as the employee stock ownership programmes (ESOP) and employee stock ownership trusts (ESOT)) and societies to promote economic growth and carry out financial services tasks. The same is true for employees’ funds grouping several SMEs and existing workers’ cooperative models. The associations referred to in Paragraph 12 could also be set up by agreement between management and labour. Shares in such associations can also be suitable forms of investment for employees in the public sector or non-profit-making organisations. Participation in growth is also possible without acquiring shares. In this connection some Member States must improve their incentive policies. Finally there is the question of employee involvement. As the most recent study by the Dublin Foundation shows, there is a clear connection between successful employee participation and participative structures in the enterprise. For the sake of brevity, your rapporteur refers in this connection simply to his working document of 2 December 2002. ANNEX: models for employee financial participation in SMEs I. Profit-sharing by employees in an SME: i) Legal form: general partnership (limited partnership) The legal basis is a profit-sharing contract in the form of a company agreement which is concluded voluntarily. The following deductions are made from the undertaking’s profits: salary for the general partner (director or manager of the undertaking), interest on equity and risk premium for the previous owners (original shareholders). The remainder is the profit to be shared. ii) The fact that capital, labour and management worked together in partnership to make this profit leads to the following profit-sharing formula, which follows the principles of transparency and simplicity. (The management factor has already been taken into account in the proprietor’s salary). Remaining profit ↓ ↓ 50 % to shareholders 50 % to employees as additional recompense for their work (not as a gift) Capital Labour of which ↓ ↓ 50 % per person 50 % in proportion to the individual yearly salary in relation to the yearly salary of all entitled employees (who have been with the firm for at least a year ) ↓ social considerations ↓ performance-related considerations Use by the employee: a) opts