As a further interim step towards making the Code of Conduct legally binding, the European Parliament recommends to all Member States that the Code be transposed into national law. 3) Greater transparency The inclusion of 10 acceding countries has made the harmonisation of future national annual reports a pressing issue. This provides also the opportunity to improve, in qualitative terms, the statistics in the annual report. Member States should not only provide full information according to the agreed criteria (see II. 1), but also on the following points: § type of arms (e.g. helicopter or machine gun), type of arms components and type of product which may be used for both civilian and military purposes (e.g. surveillance or intelligence technology) per destination; § quantity (e.g. number of rifles, etc. supplied) per destination; § transfer of military, security and police personnel, expertise and training; § detailed data on end-users per destination; § informal denials of licences for certain arms exports, which were given before a formal licence application. Fuller, more harmonised data of this kind would make the annual report more transparent and a very valuable instrument for parliamentarian scrutiny and, thus, for democratic accountability. 4) Tackling the brokering Many EU states still do not have national brokering legislation, and even in countries where they exist, there is not always a criminalisation of violations of arms embargoes by national or registered individuals and entities when committed abroad. This means that an unscrupulous broker of EU nationality or residence, would simply have to step outside the EU to broker an arms deal in violation of a, for example, UN arms embargo without facing the risk of legal sanctions upon returning to the EU. This needs to be tackled also more seriously. IV. Conclusion The EU Code of Conduct has evolved significantly since its adoption in 1998 and many new provisions and clarifications have been implemented in one form or another, although the Code in itself has not been changed. The review of the Code in 2004 is a great chance to leap forward and to implement additional measures, as proposed by the European Parliament. Furthermore, the EU and its Member States have to recognise the global dimensions of the problem of illicit arms exports and should, therefore, work with their partner countries, above all the United States, towards a legally binding international Arms Trade Treaty. In the short term and in view of the 2006 UN Review Conference, they should promote at least stringent international norms on arms exports. This will reduce regional instability, organised crime, international terrorism and human rights abuses all over the world and will turn Europe into 'a more secure place in a better world.' 11.10.2004 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE for the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Council's Fifth Annual Report according to Operative Provision 8 of the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports ( 2004/2103(INI) ) Draftsman: Jacky Henin SUGGESTIONS The Committee on International Trade calls on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its