operational level of supervision rather than for decisions involving regulatory policy choices. " VIII. The UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme and the decision not to close ELAS The UK has a statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms, set up by the Financial Services and Markets Act (FSMA). This is the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which can pay compensation if an insurer is in default, i.e. has insufficient assets to meet claims or is insolvent. The FSCS is funded by levies on firms authorised by the FSA. In WE 6 Page 5. , the then Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Ruth Kelly, is quoted as saying: “ In the event that Equitable Life were to be subject to insolvency proceedings, there is now a statutory safety net, provided by the financial services compensation scheme, which would pay out 90 per cent of guaranteed policy values ". However, the scheme was not available to Equitable Life victims, since the company was never declared insolvent. Policyholders alleged that it has been the intention of the UK government " to keep Equitable Life afloat at any price ... avoiding any cost to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme; avoiding any cost to the rest of the financial services industry ", and thus " avoiding insolvency at any price ... to ensure that the losses ... are borne by the investors " (Mr WEIR, H2). Mr WEIR (H2) claimed that at the time of the compromise in early 2002, ELAS was actually " technically insolvent ", but " it was being kept on life support to avoid the government or the financial services industry having to bail it out ". " Effectively, the strategy was to keep the sheep in the pen long enough for them to be slaughtered " (Mr WEIR, H2). Mr SEYMOUR struck a similar note in H7: " When it was realised that ELAS could not match its immediate contractual liabilities to its assets, discussions started as to the insurance rescue fund, which would have entailed a tax or levy on all other insurance companies to compensate ELAS policyholders. The UK regulator then approved a system of including five years of theoretical future profits to balance the books of a closed company – ELAS – thus rendering impossible access to the compensation fund ." ELAS rejects these allegations, stating that the fund has never been 'technically insolvent' (see WE-CONF 5 Page 2. ). Mr DAYKIN and Mr STRACHAN (H4) also emphasised that the company has always been solvent. Mr THOMSON pointed out that " the insolvency question relates to the capacity of the company to pay its guarantees; while the solvency position of the company was extremely thin for quite a long period up until about 2003, I still believe that it was never insolvent at any point in time that I can identify (H8)." In H2 Mr THOMSON furthermore suggested that there has been " a common interest that we do not want to see the company to become insolvent ". According to him, had the