effectiveness and efficiency in this field is primarily the responsibility of the government concerned and relevant regional organisations. The Commission and other donors could, if requested, provide assistance in the framework of the existing cooperation instruments. However, relying purely on trade protection instead of aiming at increasing local competitiveness would not make economic sense and above all would go against the legitimate interest of local consumers, especially the poorest ones who need food which is both healthy and affordable. Finally, in terms of sanitary controls, from 1 January 2005, exports of food from the Community have to comply with the rules established in Article 12 of the general Food Law Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety, OJ L 31 , 1.2.2002 . According to that Article, if third countries have set their own level of protection for a particular food, exporting countries must then comply with the requirements set by importing countries. Where it is not the case, the food intended for export must comply with the relevant requirements of Community food law. Finally, if there is no relevant Community food law requirement and the third country has not set any specific requirements applicable to imports, food can only be exported if the competent authorities of the country of destination have expressly agreed and if the food is not injurious to health or unsafe. ee Implementation Guidance Document available at the following address : http://europa.eu.int/comm/food/food/foodlaw/guidance/index_en.htm However, before 1 January this year, there were no Community legal provisions to arrange such trade as it was based on bilateral agreements between a Member State and a third country trading partner. Most third countries would of course accept only poultry meat exported from the EU with the same quality and food safety standards as the poultry meat that is sold in the EU itself, but due to the lack of competence in the matter at that time, the EU is not aware of any particular bilateral arrangements to the contrary. Once the product has left the Community, the sanitary conditions are no longer controlled by EU authorities. The transporters/importers are responsible for the maintenance of good sanitary conditions during shipment, in particular the continuation of the cold chain. In addition, the sanitary requirements for the exported products are set by the third country competent authority and it was their task to ensure that appropriate measures vis-à-vis the importing country were taken when the imports from a particular Member State did not comply with the set standards. 2. Within the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs), flexibility will be applied as regards asymmetry and progressiveness of ACP tariff reductions, which will be tailored to the needs of the regions concerned. This may cover the most sensitive sectors and protect them over a lengthy transition period. This should be more than sufficient to cover for example infant industries and sensitive agricultural products. The ACP would