products falling within CN code 1604. The allowance shall be granted where it is established that, over a three-month period: - the average selling price recorded on the Community market and - the import price referred to in Article 30(3) are both lower than a triggering threshold equivalent to 85% of the Community producer price for the product in question. are both lower than a triggering threshold equivalent to 91% of the Community producer price for the product in question. (Amendment 47) Article 28 1. To ensure adequate supply to the Community market of raw materials intended for the processing industries, total or partial autonomous suspension of common customs tariff duties for certain products shall be adopted for an indefinite period in accordance with Annex V to this Regulation. 1. To ensure adequate supply to the Community market of raw materials intended for the processing industries, on grounds of: - repeated problems in supplying the Community market with a particular product, or: - the fulfilment of international obligations, the Council may, acting by a qualified majority and on a proposal from the Commission, decide the total or partial suspension of common customs tariff duties for the products listed in Article 1, where they are covered by the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 of this article. 1a. The products for which a suspension of tariff duties may be decided shall be included in an annex to this regulation. Publication or modification of this annex shall take place as rapidly as possible. 1b. To qualify for inclusion in the above-mentioned annex, products must fulfil at least the following requisites: - internal Community production of the product must be less than 30%, - where internal production exists, there must also be a Community reference price pursuant to Article 29, - Community production must not exist at a sufficient level of alternative products which could easily be substituted for the product, - it must be guaranteed that there is no temporary shortfall in Community production of the product and that it is, therefore, impossible to ensure a regular supply via tariff quotas, - there is no risk of significant interference with productions covered by preferential arrangements or other international agreements entered into by the Community, - where a product is regulated by an international or regional fisheries organisation, the suspension of tariff duties may only apply to products from countries which are signatory parties to the organisations concerned, - the opening of disciplinary proceedings by a regional or international fisheries organisation shall bring about the immediate freezing of the suspension of tariff duties. 1c. The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, which shall provide it beforehand with the necessary comparative information to ensure fulfilment of the conditions laid down in paragraph 1b, shall determine the implementing arrangements for this article, and shall, in particular, approve the products to be included in the annex referred to in paragraph 1a. 2. In order to prevent the suspension arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 from jeopardising the stabilisation measures referred to in