the use of modern facilities for giving evidence, such as video conferencing, telephone conference calls and video recording . - the use as widely as possible of modern facilities for giving evidence, such as video conferencing and telephone conference calls, pursuant to Articles 10 and 11 of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union of 29 May 2000( 1 ), to enable victims resident abroad to be heard. _____________ ( 1 ) OJ C 197, 12.7.2000, p. 3. (Amendment 49) Article 11(2) 2. Member States shall ensure that the necessary measures are taken to enable victims to remain in the Member State in which the procedure is to take place, where necessary for the proper conduct of the procedure. 2. Member States shall enable victims who so wish to remain in the Member State in which the procedure is to take place, where necessary for the proper conduct of the procedure. (Amendment 50) Article 11(3) 3. Member States shall ensure that the fact that a victim is resident in another Member State and has to return there will affect the due conduct of the procedure as little as possible . For this purpose, Member States shall ensure that international cooperation arrangements pay particular regard to the position of victims resident in another Member State. 3. Member States shall adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the fact that a victim is resident in another Member State and has to return there will not affect the due conduct of the procedure. For this purpose, Member States shall guarantee that international cooperation arrangements pay particular regard to the position of victims resident in another Member State. (Amendment 51) Article 11(4) 4. Member States shall ensure that victims can report offences in their Member State of residence in the case of crimes committed against them in another Member State, in order to have the relevant proceedings initiated in that other Member State. 4. Member States shall guarantee that victims can lodge a complaint or suit with the competent authorities in their Member State of residence in the case of crimes committed against them in another Member State . The above-mentioned authorities shall forward the complaint or suit submitted to the competent authority of the Member State in which the crime was committed in order to have the relevant proceedings initiated in that other Member State . (Amendment 52) Article 12(2) 2. Member States shall, for the purposes of paragraph 1, set up a European victim support freephone line to serve, in particular , the purposes laid down in Article 4. 2. Member States shall, for the purposes of paragraph 1, set up a 24-hour European victim support freephone line operating in all the official languages of the Union to serve, inter alia , the purposes laid down in Article 4. (Amendment 53) Article 12a (new) Article 12a Cooperation between Member States Member States shall cooperate closely to ensure the protection of victims" interests. (Amendment 54) Article 14(1) 1. Within public services or through funding for victim