so far, K. whereas the Burmese Government continues to enjoy close political and economic relations with neighbouring countries and with ASEAN, L. whereas 30% of Burma's population, an estimated 15 million people, are subsisting below the poverty line, 1. Deplores the fact that the constitutional referendum process is devoid of any democratic legitimacy, as Burmese citizens lack all basic democratic rights that would allow them to hold an open debate on the constitutional text, amend it and subsequently freely express themselves through a referendum; 2. Condemns the rejection by the Burmese Government of the proposals made by UN Special Envoy Gambari, to allow an open and inclusive campaign in the run-up to the constitutional referendum; calls on the Burmese Government to act in good faith and to work constructively with the UN Special Envoy; 3. Supports the democratic transition through an inclusive process of national reconciliation and tripartite dialogue between the regime, the NLD and ethnic representatives; 4. Seeks from the Burmese Government guarantees that it will convene an independent election commission, compile a proper voter registration list, lift long-standing restrictions on the media, allow freedom of association, expression and assembly in Burma, revoke new regulations that criminalise legitimate debate on the referendum, and agree to the presence of international observers; 5. Calls for the immediate and unconditional release of political opponents of the regime and of more than 1 800 political prisoners, including Aung San Suu Kyi, the leaders of the "88 Generation Students, and the leaders of the Shan Nationalities League for Democracy arrested in 2005; 6. Calls for the regime to account for all casualties and missing persons from last September's crackdown on protests by Buddhist monks and democracy activists and to establish the whereabouts of missing monks and nuns; 7. Urges the Commission, the Council and Member States to take every opportunity to speak out in the international arena against the continuing and persistent abuse of children in Burma, especially through the use of child soldiers; condemns in the strongest possible terms the recruitment of child soldiers in Burma, and calls on the UN Security Council to thoroughly investigate the situation in Burma in this regard; 8. Notes that China has recently ratified the UN Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of children in armed conflict, draws attention to the deplorable abuses perpetrated in this regard by the Burmese military junta, and urges China to take action in this regard; 9. Supports the good offices of the UN Secretary-General and Mr Gambari's efforts to negotiate with the Burmese authorities; calls on the EU and the Member States to work closely with the UN Special Envoy to ensure the consistency of the international community's involvement in Burma; 10. Supports the efforts of the EU's special envoy on Burma, Piero Fassino, to promote dialogue with ASEAN countries; urges ASEAN to put substantive pressure on the Burmese authorities to bring about democratic change; 11. Urges the Council to renew its targeted sanctions, and to broaden them, focusing on restrictions on access to international