unresolved, if anything, we should have withdrawn it ... With hindsight, I believe I was misled about the risks associated with the with-profits fund. I believe that now, I most certainly did not at the time ... I believe that something should have been done to prevent further clients – other than those already in it – committing money to a fund that had liabilities that were beyond its means." Finally, on the selling material, Mr. LLOYD also denied allegations it was made to mislead clients, as " the material was not, as I saw it at the time, designed to mislead anyone. It was giving people a view of what we thought was a sound, well-run company and fund and encouraging people to invest because of the performance we had achieved over the years." 4b) Allegations of mis-selling and misrepresentation in other Member States Reporting further mis-selling allegations outside of the UK, Mr. SEYMOUR (H7), a policyholder who took out his policy in Belgium, related that "ELAS sales personnel approached potential customers throughout the Community stating that it was possible to invest in ELAS pension policies due to changes in the law. It stated that these policies were called “international” policies and were separately administered by a branch office outside the UK ..." Another document Sales documents were submitted, see WE53. proved that ELAS had been claiming to provide something of a "smoothing fund" based on the build up of reserves: " ELAS claimed it was running its pension fund as a smoothing fund by holding reserves. The bonuses were declared annually and were specified as being 'guaranteed'. All documents stressed regulation in the UK in the back page ... I was also assured that it was exclusively regulated in the UK so I felt sure that what I had seen and been told was correct. At the point of sale the company had assured potential purchasers that the 'international' policies were separate from the UK with-profit fund." (H7) Mr. SEYMOUR added that during an ELAS sales visit to Belgium in 1994, ELAS representatives informed him that " they were authorized to make such sales outside the UK . They also stressed that the content of their sales material was accurate, that the conduct of their business (was) sound, because their investment activity was regulated by the 'reliable UK regulator' (words of the ELAS representatives)." (WE36) A number of other non-UK policyholders reported allegations of mis-selling or mis-representation of facts. Policyholder Mr. McCARTHY (WE-FILE16) reported that his decision to join Equitable Life was influenced by the Equitable's claim that it was a member of the "Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland Scheme". Mr. BERRY (WE-FILE13), an Irish policyholder, asked how it was possible that " the Equitable, in its circumstances, could be allowed to write new business (in Ireland ) as late as April 2000. It could only do so because of gross dereliction of duty on the part of the Regulating Authority." Policyholder Mr. DUGGAN (WE-FILE14) claimed the Equitable policy had been sold to him as being " subject to the laws