Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (30 September 2009) The Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) Council Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002 of 20 December 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy, OJ L 358, 31.12.2002. objectives include the aim to minimise the impacts of fishing activities on the marine environment by integrating environmental protection requirements. On this basis, the Commission has already taken steps towards the conservation of seabird and marine mammal species, through support to research and the application of legislation. The Commission has co-financed several projects through LIFE, the EU’s financial instrument for the environment, targeting marine species and habitats and contributing to the implementation of the Natura 2000 network in the marine environment. Measures for the protection and conservation of both seabirds and marine mammals are frequently addressed in these LIFE projects. With regard to legislation addressing the incidental catches of cetaceans, the Commission ensures that Council Regulation (EC) No 812/2004 Council Regulation (EC) No 812/2004 adopted in April 2004 lays down measures concerning incidental catches of cetaceans in fisheries and amending Regulation (EC) No 88/98, OJ L 150, 30.4.2004. , laying down measures aimed at mitigating incidental catches of cetaceans by fishing vessels, is being implemented by Member States. The regulation identifies the fisheries where the use of acoustic deterrent devices, also known as pingers, is mandatory, the technical specifications and conditions for use of these instruments, and the fisheries where at-sea observer schemes have to be conducted. Member States are responsible for the implementation and use of acoustic devices, for monitoring their efficiency, and implementing monitoring schemes according to the guidelines under this regulation. Moreover, the Commission has just adopted a Communication to the European Parliament and the Council COM(2009)368 final on cetacean incidental catches in Fisheries: Report on the implementation of certain provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 812/2004 and on a scientific assessment of the effects of using in particular gillnets, trammel nets and entangling nets on cetaceans in the Baltic Sea as requested through Council Regulation (EC) No 2187/2005. on cetacean incidental catches in fisheries, reporting on the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 812/2004 and Regulation (EC) No 2187/2005. This document is based on an assessment by the International Council for the Exploration of the Seas (ICES) and the Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries (STECF), which have reviewed the actions reported to the Commission by Member States with respect to the implementation of this regulation. The Commission recognises that some Member States have made considerable efforts to correctly implement Regulation (EC) No 812/2004, but it also points out that some Member States are lagging behind. The Commission, therefore, organised a workshop with a view to collecting further information, on the basis of which the implementation of these regulations should be improved. The main results and proposed actions of this workshop are summarised also in the Commission's Communication. It should be noted that ICES provides regular scientific assessment concerning incidental catches of small cetaceans in EU fisheries. The latest ICES overview on this