on the ICI+ file Proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1934/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories, 2009/0059(COD) . (with 1 strategy paper left) and the DCI/BAM file Proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation, 2010/0059(COD) . (with 10 strategy papers left). Procedure Eight trilogues took place on 30 March, 11 May, 25 May, 22 June, 5 July, 6 September (1st meeting of the conciliation committee), 27 September and 19 October. Seven meetings of Parliament's delegation have taken place on 15 February 12 May, 5 July, 6 September, 20 September, 11 October and 25 October. Political agreement was reached on 31 October 2011. Content The European Parliament and the Council agreed to establish the key decisions (objectives, priorities, indicative financial allocations and expected results) in codecision. In the trilogue of 27 September provisional agreement was reached on a suggested compromise package (on ICI+, DCI/BAM and a joint declaration of the European Parliament and the Council on the future use of delegated acts). This package was endorsed by Coreper on 29 September 2011. The European Parliament delegation, however, decided in its meeting on 11 October that negotiations should be continued, especially on the DCI/BAM file. A further trilogue therefore took place on 19 October, in which Council maintained the provisional agreement reached in the trilogue of 27 September. It was agreed to submit the provisional agreement again to the Parliament's delegation for the final vote. The EP delegation adopted the agreement in its meeting on 25 October. The conciliation was concluded by an exchange of letters (24 and 26 October 2011). The overall result of the conciliation is positive. It is agreed that the European Parliament and the Council decide together on the important strategic decisions in co-decision. Furthermore a joint European Parliament and Council Declaration on the use of delegated acts in the area of external relations for the future financial instruments was agreed upon, which strengthens the negotiating position of the European Parliament towards the inclusion of delegated acts in the new instruments. On the ICI+ instrument The agreement reached enables the European Union to deepen the activities other than official development assistance with countries which are both developing and major partners in the world economy (like India, Brazil and China). The European Parliament insisted on an Annex with the financial allocation of funds per priority area (Public Diplomacy and Outreach, Promotion of economic partnership and business cooperation, People to People links) with minimum percentages . Laying down these financial allocations in the basic act makes the European Parliaments' negotiating position for future delegated acts stronger. In a spirit of compromise the European Parliament accepted a Declaration on the financial provisions . III. Conclusion The EP delegation decided to negotiate the four legislative files as a package. This approach led to considerable improvements. The overall package reached at the end of the conciliation procedure will improve the Parliament's position on delegated acts in