Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (25 April 2006) The Commission has provided substantial support to help Bulgaria to deal with the consequences of two flood disasters that severely hit the country in May 2005 and August 2005. The European Commission proposed, on 20 December 2005, a grant from the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF) totalling EUR 20.35 million. This comprised an amount of EUR 9.72 million for the floods of May 2005 and EUR 10.63 million for the floods of August 2005. As the EUSF is outside the normal EU budget, the Commission can only propose to the budgetary authority to mobilise the Fund. The aid amounts, to become available, require the adoption by the Budget Authority (European Parliament and Council) of an amending budget. The conditions for implementing the aid by the recipient are laid down in an implementation agreement, to be signed by the Commission and the Bulgarian authorities. In accordance with Article 3 of the Solidarity Fund Regulation Council Regulation (EC) No 2012/2002 of 11 November 2002 establishing the European Union Solidarity Fund, OJ L 311, 14.11.2002. , payments from the Fund are limited to reimburse the cost of essential emergency operations undertaken by the public authorities alleviating non insurable damages, such as providing temporary accommodation and funding rescue services, cleaning up the disaster stricken areas and restoring basic infrastructures to working condition. The aid is paid out in a single instalment after the signing of the implementation agreement and shall be used within one year after the date of receipt. No later than six months after the expiry of the one year period from the date of receipt of the grant, the beneficiary state shall present a report on the financial execution of the grant, and a statement justifying the expenditure, as well as detail the preventive measures introduced or proposed in order to limit damage or avoid, to the extent possible, a recurrence of similar disasters. Funds have also been made available under the Phare national programme 2005. A special Financing Agreement has been signed with the Bulgarian authorities, amounting to EUR 12.3 million. This Programme aims at mitigating the consequences of the floods in the affected regions and municipalities. It is targeted on two main projects involving the newly established Ministry of State Policy for Disasters and Accidents: — ‘Support to sustainable crisis management at central and local level’ aiming at reinforcing and increasing the sustainability of the Bulgarian capacity to manage and react to crises, and natural disasters such as flooding, earth quakes and forest fires in particular. This will include the development of methodologies and standards, operational support mechanisms, establishment of a flood forecast and training. — ‘Post-flood rehabilitation and relief scheme’ supporting the reconstruction of local transport and environmental infrastructure as well as local educational and healthcare-related establishments damaged by flooding, thereby contributing to the economic recovery and development of the worst affected regions. The Commission regrets not to have been in a position to reply to the first request on this subject, which appears not to have