Reimer Böge, in his working document n° 1 DT\589812 , because: a) the use of this automatic mechanism over the years leads to a reduction of the NCE, b) the structure of the current FP is not adequate to highlight the priorities identified by the Commission and shared by the Parliament (i.e. Lisbon strategy), c) the EP cannot use the appropriations of heading 7 (pre-accession), d) the starting point for the prolongation - FP for the year 2006 - is based on EU-25 while the FP for 2007 onwards will be for EU-27. 16. The Rapporteur acknowledges that Parliament finds itself in a delicate position where legal obligations and political decisions are of considerable significance but believes that the European Parliament cannot take the risk to be bound by the provisions of article 26. Neither can it anticipate the result of the negotiations on the next FP-IIA. 17. In a note dated 7 February, the European Parliament's Legal Service considers the context of uncertainty concerning the outcome of the negotiations. According to the Legal Service, denunciation of the IIA should take place “early in 2006” in respect of the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions. A late denunciation could imply an implicit acceptance by the European Parliament of the future IIA. As the opinion by the Legal Service suggests, the Rapporteur believes that the European Parliament should reserve its position concerning the possibility to denounce the current IIA before the new IIA is agreed. 18. The Rapporteur suggests that once it is confirmed that article. 26 in its current form is not an option (automatic prolongation of 1b financial framework), such a position should be taken by the European Parliament before the PDB is presented, especially in case the second trialogue of 21 March 2006 indicates that no agreement can been reached. After the vote on the resolution, a letter could be sent by the President of Parliament to the President of the Commission and the President of the Council to inform them of the European Parliament decision confirming the will to continue the ongoing negotiations without prejudice of the outcome. In reality, this decision would confirm Parliament's rejection of a mechanical continuation of the current FP. The link with enlargement 19. In addition to the transition beyond the year 2006, the Rapporteur wishes to raise another question which has an impact on the annual 2007 Budget, relating to enlargement. The forecasts for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania are based on a political decision (with the consent of the European Parliament) to be taken before next summer. 20. Although the Commission has based its proposal on an EU with 27 countries, no agreement for a budget for 27 countries can be concluded before the formal decision on enlargement has been taken. Therefore the Rapporteur considers that with or without a new Financial Perspective, the Commission should present the PDB for 2007 for EU 25 and, once the accession becomes effective, present an amending Letter for EU 2 on a similar basis as for the enlargement to EU 10 in 2004.