notify Parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 4. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Text proposed by the Council Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 1 (new) (1) The European Union, in view of enlargement and its cultural affinities with its new neighbours, has an important responsibility to fight trafficking in human beings and to provide help to victims of action to facilitate illegal immigration. Amendment 2 Recital 2 (new) (2) Trafficking in human beings is a grave violation of human rights and should be combated actively. Amendment 3 Recital 3 (new) (3) With a view to the protection of third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking, Member States should conduct an assessment of the risks such persons run whether they choose to return to their country of origin or not. Justification Since the most critical aspect of this Directive concerns the securing of the co-operation of victims the protection as well as assistance to victims is the key to the effectiveness of the Directive. Amendment 4 Recital 4 (new) (4) With a view to enabling victims to overcome their dependence and ensuring that they do not re-establish contact with the criminal network responsible for their plight, Member States may arrange for victims who have been issued with such a residence permit to take part in programmes to foster their integration into society or to prepare them for a return to their home countries. Justification The directive provides for the issuing of residence permits to the victims of trafficking in human beings or of actions to promote illegal immigration - a sufficient incentive to cooperate with the competent authorities. Amendment 5 Recital 5 (new) (5) The Council, the Commission and the European Parliament consider the Brussels Declaration on Preventing and Combating Trafficking in Human Beings as the primary reference text for the further development of anti-trafficking policy at European level; this Directive falls within the scope and is in line with the ambitions of that document. Justification It is important to underline that this Directive should be understood in the context of the ambitions of the Brussels Declaration. Amendment 6 Article 4 This Directive shall be without prejudice to the protection extended to refugees, to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and persons seeking international protection under international refugee law and without prejudice to other human rights instruments, such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms . Justification Reinstates Amendment 15 from Parliament's resolution A5-0397/2002 . (In the Council draft, the text of Article 4 of the Commission proposal was moved to the recitals). Amendment 7 Article 6 This directive shall not prevent Member States from adopting or maintaining more favourable provisions for the persons covered by this Directive. This Directive shall not prevent Member States from adopting or maintaining more favourable provisions for the persons covered by this Directive , including minors who have fallen victim to trafficking in human beings or to actions to