Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (20 February 2007) The passenger name record (PNR) data collected by the American Department of Homeland Security (DHS) under the terms of the agreement between the United States (US) and the EU currently in force, and entered into the automatic targeting system (ATS), may be kept for a period of 3.5 years if the data have not been manually accessed. If that has been the case, the data will be transferred to a deleted record file where they remain for a period of 8 years This issue will be discussed between the Council Presidency, the Commission and the American authorities within the framework of the negotiations on a new PNR agreement. As regards the personal risk scores produced by ATS, the Commission has asked the American authorities for information about the length of storage. It should be noted that information generated by the American authorities on American territory, is not covered by the European data protection rules. The data entered into the ATS under the current PNR Agreement are those listed in the attachment to the undertakings to the extent that those data have been collected by the air carrier in relation to flights between the EU and the US. The Commission refers to its reply given to Written Question P‑5491/06 by Mrs In 't Veld. The system has been explained to the EU Joint Review team during the review of the implementation of the Undertakings by the American Bureau of Customs and Border Protection (CBP), which took place in September 2005. The joint review team focused its scrutiny in respect of the undertakings with regard of PNR data collected under the existing legal framework between the EU and the US, but did not look into the features of ATS as a general system that may process other data falling outside of that framework. Parliament has been informed about the existence of the ATS. As the Commission said earlier, the ATS has been explained to the members of the EU joint review team on the occasion of the review of the implementation of the undertakings by CBP. The questions and replies in relation to the ATS (insofar as it concerns the processing of PNR data under the previous PNR framework between the EU and the US) have been laid down in the annex to the report established after the review. Parliament has received a copy of this report.