proposal for a decision establishing that the political party concerned either does or does not observe the principles set out in paragraph 1. No amendment may be tabled. In either case, if the proposal for a decision does not secure a majority, a decision to the contrary will be deemed to have been adopted. 4. Parliament’s decision shall apply with effect from the day upon which the request referred to in paragraph 1 was tabled. 5. The President shall represent Parliament on the committee of independent eminent persons. 6. The committee responsible shall draw up the report provided for in European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 on the application of that Regulation and the activities funded, and shall submit it in plenary. TITLE XII APPLICATION AND AMENDMENT OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE Rule 201 Application of the Rules of Procedure 1. Should doubt arise over the application or interpretation of these Rules of Procedure, the President may refer the matter to the committee responsible for examination. Committee chairs may do so where such a doubt arises in the course of the committee's work and is related to it. 2. The committee shall decide whether it is necessary to propose an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. In this case it shall proceed in accordance with Rule 202. 3. Should the committee decide that an interpretation of the existing Rules is sufficient, it shall forward its interpretation to the President who shall inform Parliament at its next part-session. 4. Should a political group or at least forty Members contest the committee's interpretation, the matter shall be put to the vote in Parliament. Adoption of the text shall be by a majority of the votes cast provided that at least one-third of Parliament's component Members are present. In the event of rejection, the matter shall be referred back to the committee. 5. Uncontested interpretations and interpretations adopted by Parliament shall be appended in italic print as explanatory notes to the appropriate Rule or Rules. 6. Interpretations shall constitute precedents for the future application and interpretation of the Rules concerned. 7. The Rules of Procedure and interpretations shall be reviewed regularly by the committee responsible. 8. Where these Rules confer rights on a specific number of Members, that number shall be automatically adjusted to the nearest whole number representing the same percentage of Parliament's membership whenever the total size of Parliament is increased, notably following enlargements of the European Union. Rule 202 Amendment of the Rules of Procedure 1. Any Member may propose amendments to these Rules and to the annexes thereto accompanied, if appropriate, by short justifications. Such proposed amendments shall be translated, printed, distributed and referred to the committee responsible, which shall examine them and decide whether to submit them to Parliament. For the purpose of applying Rules 150, 151 and 155 to consideration of such proposed amendments in Parliament, references made in those Rules to the 'original text' or the 'Commission proposal' shall be considered as referring to the provision in force at the time. 2. Amendments to these Rules