of the Member States and companies, and described as "over-prescriptive" certain provisions at Community level. These included the establishment of quantifiable standards at EU level, the right for the Commission to infringe on contractual freedom of companies and a "crisis mechanism" at EU level that disregarded the hierarchy of responsibilities (companies - Member States - Commission). As a result the Council asked for the legal basis of the directive to be changed, so that it comes under Article 100 of the Treaty. This article provides that, in the case of special measures to be taken if there are severe difficulties in the supply of certain products, the Council decides alone and merely informs Parliament of its decision. Having made its point in September, Parliament, after consultation with its Committee on Legal Affairs, accepted this procedural change. Press enquiries: Virginija Zabotkaite (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74642 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 31055 & Richard Freedman (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73785 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 41448 e-mail : indu-press@europarl.eu.int Access to the gas transmission networks Esko SEPPÄNEN (EUL/NGL, FIN) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on conditions for access to the gas transmission networks ( COM(2003) 741 – C5-0644/2003 – 2003/0302(COD)) Doc.: A5-0254/2004 Procedure : Codecision (1st reading) Debate : 19.04.2004 Vote: 20.04.2004 Vote Parliament adopted a number of amendments to the Commission's draft regulation on access to gas transmission networks (rapporteur: Esko SEPPÄNEN (EUL/NGL, FIN). The main points concerned the scope of the regulation, comitology procedures and implementation deadlines. In 2003 Directive 2003/55/EC aimed progressively to open gas markets to competition and create internal market in gas. However, in order for the gas market to function properly, effective trading rules and notably a harmonised approach on cross-border access to gas networks are still needed. In February 2002 at the Madrid Forum the Commission, national regulatory authorities and gas market players agreed on technical guidelines for third party access to gas transmission networks. However, having observed significant lack of compliance with the rules, the Commission proposed a regulation on the basis the consensus reached in Madrid. The report says that this regulation should remove barriers to gas transfer between transmission systems and to new entrants to the market, thus reducing market dominance in Member States and enhancing competition in common market . Harmonised rules Contrary to the Commission's view - that the regulation should be applied according to specifics of national and regional markets - Parliament stresses that the main focus of regulation should be on cross border issues, in particular setting out rules for enabling third party network users to move their gas from one transmission system to another throughout the EU. Parliament remarks that free access will be guaranteed to all networks, except those already exempted by Directive 2003/55/EC. Debating the charges for network access, Parliament agreed with the Commission that basic joint principles on access charges are necessary to eliminate existing cross-board trade barriers. MEPs share the opinion that charges or calculation methodologies should offer incentives to investment and keep the transmission systems interoperable. To ensure transparent and non-discriminatory tariffs, Parliament