of 2004 and began operations on 1 April 2005. The Financial Services Ombudsman is an independent officer with the power to investigate, mediate and adjudicate on complaints about the conduct of ‘regulated financial services providers’ involving the provision of a financial service, an offer to provide such a service or a refusal or a failure to provide such a service. His jurisdiction is not restricted to financial services providers authorised in Ireland. Thus, he may also investigate complaints “ about financial services providers whose business is subject to regulation by an authority that performs functions in an EEA country that are comparable to the functions performed by the Bank or the Regulatory Authority ” (See ES 3). He would only consider complaints when the complainant has availed of the internal complaints procedure of his provider before. Complaints on matters which occurred six years before the complaint is made and matters which were (or are) subject to legal proceedings before a court or tribunal cannot be investigated. The Ombudsman has extensive powers. Among other things, he can direct the financial services provider to “ pay an amount of compensation to the complainant for any loss, expense or inconvenience sustained by the complainant as a result of the conduct complained of ” (see ES 3 Page 86. ). The amount of compensation he can award is limited to €250,000. The FSO’s decisions are binding on both parties subject only to an appeal by either the complainant or the financial service provider to the High Court. Mr MEADE indicated in WE 63 that since its establishment, the statutory Financial Services Ombudsman has received 7 complaints on Equitable Life. They concerned allegations of “mis-selling and the fact that people were not properly informed” (WE 68). However, none of these complaints was investigated since “they fell outside the six year rule and furthermore they had been subject to the [compromise] scheme of arrangement” (WE 68). The main events at Equitable Life took place before the establishment of the statutory scheme. At that time, the voluntary Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland (IOI) scheme dealt with complaints concerning insurance providers, which were members of the scheme, including ELAS. Other requirements for a complaint to be investigated by the IOI are outlined in WE 68: “Any complaint to be considered by the former Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland Scheme ... would have to take account of the fact that the amount of compensation claimed should not exceed a certain figure; the complainant had, beforehand, availed of the internal complaints procedure of his provider, the matter was not the subject of legal proceedings before a court and was not time barred”. It should be noted in this context that a number of Irish policyholders claimed during the delegation meeting on 6 October 2006 in Dublin that the IOI refused to deal with their complaint, stating that it 'would only cover Irish insurance providers that were members of the scheme'. However, the policyholders were not able to substantiate their statements by written evidence in response to a request by the committee and they rather