WRITTEN QUESTION E-0403/05 by Dimitrios Papadimoulis (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (10 February 2005) Subject: Environmental pollution from the pet coke factory in the Larissa region In the Larissa area (six kilometres along the regional road linking Larissa and Sykourio) there is a brick and tile factory, Terra Ltd., - Viokeral, which uses diesel oil and pet coke as fuel. Owing to its high sulphur content (7.6%), the use of pet coke causes increased emissions of sulphur dioxide in the atmosphere; inspections carried out by services of the Ministry of the Environment, Regional Planning and Public Works and submitted to the Greek Parliament in response to questions by MPs and protests by local authorities and inhabitants about heavy atmospheric pollution found that the plant does not so far seem to have tackled these emissions by installing sulphur dioxide filters. The services of the Ministry of the Environment, Regional Planning and Public Works have already imposed a fine of € 28670 (in 2002), since the factory in question did not have authorisation to use pet coke as fuel at the time of inspection. Furthermore, the authorisation to use crude oil given by the Greek authorities with the approval of the environmental conditions in 2001 is valid until December 2005, after which the factory will be obliged to use natural gas in order to continue functioning. In response to Written Question E-0382/03 OJ C 242 E, 9.10.2003 , page 126. the former Commissioner stated ‘... the Commission has launched an own-initiative investigation to determine whether the factory in question complies with the Community's environment legislation. A letter has been sent to the Greek authorities asking them for information on compliance with Council Directive 96/61/EC of 24 September 1996 concerning integrated pollution prevention and control and Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985, as amended by Council Directive 97/11/EC of 3 March 1997. Once it has received a reply from the Greek authorities, the Commission will examine whether there is any violation of the aforementioned Community acts and will take the necessary steps to ensure that Community law is observed in this instance’. Have the relevant Greek authorities notified the Commission about this question? Does the Commission judge that the aforementioned directives have been violated, and, if so, what measures does it intend to take to ensure that Greece complies with them and to put an end to the violation of the Community legislation in question and the pollutant sulphur dioxide emissions from the factory in question?