Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (11 December 2008) In light of the limited information provided in the question, the Commission is not in a position to undertake an extensive analysis of the situation described by the Honourable Member. However, the Commission will provide a short description of some of the Community rules that could be of relevance in this case. The objective of Community legislation on the registration of companies and branches is to protect the interest of shareholders, creditors and other third parties (Article 44(2)(g) of the EC Treaty). The First Company Law Directive (Directive 68/151/EEC Directive 68/151/EEC of 9 March 1968 on coordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the Community , OJ L 65, 14.3.1968. ) partly deals with business registration while the Eleventh Company Law Directive (Directive 89/666/EEC Eleventh Council Directive 89/666/EEC of 21 December 1989 concerning disclosure requirements in respect of branches opened in a Member State by certain types of company governed by the law of another State, OJ L 395, 30.12.1989. ) regulates the registration of branches. The directives ensure a minimum standard of market transparency all over Europe by prescribing a list of company data and documents that must be disclosed through the register. Information such as the name and address of the company, the identity of the directors, the share capital, the articles of association and the annual accounts are indispensable for customers, creditors and business partners. As regards business activity in other Member States, the Eleventh Company Law Directive requires the disclosure of some basic company data and documents in the country where the branch is registered. Accordingly, the company that conducts business through a branch in a Member State other than its place of registration is obliged to make sufficient information available to creditors and other third parties, usually in the official language of the Member State of the branch. To conclude, there are a number of rules in the acquis communautaire on disclosure requirements related to business and foreign branch registration. However, there is no provision in Community company law that would regulate the question when and under which conditions a company/branch can be or has to be registered in a Member State. This matter belongs to the competence of the national legislator, within the limits set out by the Treaty regarding in particular the right to freedom of establishment.