bonuses are allotted to policyholders (for example, sum assured, premiums paid, value of existing bonuses) § whether policies share equitably in the distribution of all the profits of the long-term fund or only certain elements of these profits because, for example, certain assets are to be hypothecated to the type of contract concerned so that the bonuses distributed to the policyholder will be restricted to the profits earned on those assets. The Prudential Guidance Note specifies that all the information must be disclosed in writing before the contract is entered into. It goes on to specify that, as best practice, insurers should disclose the information early in the selling process and whenever a product recommendation is made or a proposal form completed by the policyholder. Ongoing disclosure requirements: the scope of application of ongoing disclosure requirements for long-term insurance contracts is defined by paragraph (2), sub paragraphs (1) and (2) of the Schedule. According to these provisions, ongoing contractual disclosure requirements apply to contracts of direct long-term insurance entered into by a head office or branch of an insurance company or member of Lloyd’s situated in the UK or situated in a Member State other than the UK where one or more of the other parties to the contract is habitually resident in the UK. Unlike pre-contractual disclosure requirements, ongoing disclosure requirements apply to all kinds of contracts for direct long-term insurance, whether they have an investment component or not. In line with Annex II of the Directive, ongoing disclosure requirements for long-term insurance, as set out by Schedule 2E, refer to both disclosure of information on contract variations and on the state of bonuses. The extent, form and timing of the ongoing disclosure requirements are further specified by the Prudential Guidance Note, which refers to the SIB/LAUTRO rules. The SIB/LAUTRO rules on disclosure of information relating to contract variations and on the state of bonuses is far more detailed than the succinct reference made by the Directive. SIB/LAUTRO rules stipulate that bonus notices must be issued at least once in every calendar year and that they should take one of the following forms: § a client-specific notice that indicates the amount of the bonus allotted to that policyholder, or § a client-specific notice which indicates the total value of the investment, including the value of any bonus allotted, and the rate of bonus over the period of time to which the bonus notice relates, or § a non client-specific notice that provides sufficient information to enable policyholders to calculate the amount of bonus allotted to them and indicates the method for the calculation. Such a notice could take the form of a table of values for the bonus for given sums assured and years of commencement of the contract or indicate the amount of the bonus as a proportion of the sum assured. Link to the ELAS case This article is inseparably linked to Article 28. The issue in this instance is whether ELAS properly informed policyholders, in addition to the initial pre-contractual information, of changes to their policy conditions, for