the Portland Trail Blazers of the NBA.", " Born in Seattle, Washington, he played college basketball at UCLA from 1979 to 1983, and was selected in the third round of the 1983 NBA Draft by the Golden State Warriors, but began his NBA career with the Phoenix Suns in 1984–85.", " Holton, a 6'4\" 185 lb guard, also spent his career with the Chicago Bulls, Portland Trail Blazers, and Charlotte Hornets.", " He also played in the CBA for four different teams in as many seasons from 1983 to 1992.", " He started 60 games for the expansion Charlotte Hornets.", " Holton briefly played for Great Taste Coffee in the Philippine Basketball Association." ] ], [ "Sam Mitchell (basketball)", [ "Samuel E. Mitchell Jr. (born September 2, 1963) is a former professional basketball player and coach who is currently head coach of the U.S. Virgin Islands national basketball team.", " He was most recently the interim head coach for the Minnesota Timberwolves of the National Basketball Association (NBA).", " He was also the head coach for the Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 2004 to 2008.", " Mitchell has also done analyst work for TSN and NBA TV as well as radio work for WHAL-AM in Columbus and WZGC-FM \"92.9 The Game\" in Atlanta.", " He also currently works as a talk show co-host/analyst on SiriusXM NBA Radio." ] ], [ "Greg Anthony", [ "Gregory Carlton \"Greg\" Anthony (born November 15, 1967) is an American former National Basketball Association (NBA) player and is currently a television analyst for CBS Sports.", " Anthony also contributes to Yahoo! Sports as a college basketball analyst and serves as a co-host/analyst on SiriusXM NBA Radio." ] ], [ "Frank Mason III", [ "Frank Leo Mason III (born April 3, 1994) is an American basketball player for the Sacramento Kings of the National Basketball Association (NBA).", " He played college basketball for the University of Kansas, where he was the starting point guard for the Jayhawks.", " For the 2016–17 season, he was named National Player of the Year by all of the major national player awards, making him consensus national player of the year.", " The awards are the John R. Wooden Award, CBS Sports National Player of the Year, the USA Today, the Sporting News Player of the Year, Associated Press Player of the Year, Naismith College Player of the Year, Oscar Robertson Trophy, and NABC Player of the Year.", " He was also a consensus All-American selection for his senior season at Kansas." ] ], [ "Clark Kellogg", [ "Clark Clifton Kellogg, Jr. (born July 2, 1961) is the former VP of player relations for the Indiana Pacers, the lead college basketball analyst for CBS Sports, and a former player in the National Basketball Association (NBA)." ] ] ] }