13.12.2005 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Roberta Angelilli on behalf of the UEN Group on Tibet European Parliament resolution on Tibet The European Parliament , - having regard to its previous resolutions on Tibet and the human rights situation in China, - having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the 1994 Chinese State Council regulations and later provincial regulations required all places of worship to register with the government religious affairs bureaus and to come under the control of official "patriotic" religious organizations, B. whereas China does not recognize non registered religious venues: "underground" mosques, temples, seminaries, Catholic churches and Protestant "house churches", many with significant memberships; whereas the Government of the People's Republic of China considers Catholic structures subordinated to the Vatican to be illegal, C. whereas five Tibetan monks of the monastery of Drepung in Lhasa have been arrested on 23 October 2005 and imprisoned in Public Security Bureau Detention Centre in their respective places of origin and probably tortured, D. whereas over 400 Tibetan monks of the monastery of Drepung in Lhasa have been forced back into their quarters with violence, simply because they protested peacefully against the imprisonment of their comrades, 1. Urges the Chinese Government to respond to international calls for improvement in the human rights situation in China and to guarantee freedom of religion, freedom of expression and political freedom and especially to release all prisoners sentenced because of their religious activities; 2. Is deeply concerned about the health conditions of the five monks who have been arrested and urges Chinese authorities to immediately release them; 3. Urges the Chinese authorities to cease the "patriotic education" campaign and not to make any abuse against the Tibetan population; 4. Calls on the government of China to continue dialogue with the representatives of the Dalai Lama; 5. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments of Member States, the Chinese government and the Governor of Sichuan Province.