of the files that were passed to us, it appears that the only rules that were imposed were the ‘general good’ rules set out in the directive. Member States were free to apply additional conduct of business rules as, for example, the UK did. Ireland did not apply additional conduct of business rules at that time, but I think the word ‘obliged’ was used there. There was no obligation on Ireland, or on any other EU Member State, to do that and I think the UK probably would have been particularly unusual at the time " (H4). The committee sought to obtain further information from IFSRA as to whether at all any Irish conduct of business rules at all were applicable at the time, for instance in relation to mis-selling, and received the following response (WE 80): " Statutory Instrument 360 of 1994 ... provide[s] that insurers are required to comply with specified legislation, including the Consumer Information Act of 1978, the Sale of Goods and Supply of Services Act 1980 and consumer credit legislation adopted by the State. These requirements were and are enforceable through the Courts... ". From WE-CONF 9 it appears that the British regulator was never notified of these rules. After the main events at Equitable, namely on 1 February 2001, conduct of business rules specific to the life insurance were imposed in Ireland through the Life Insurance Provision of Information Regulations 2001. According to the notification papers sent to the British regulator on 29 July 2002 (i.e. after the closure of ELAS Irish branch on 8 July 2002), they provide for " disclosure of information at point of sale to individual purchasers of life assurance " (WE-CONF 9). Ms O'DEA informed the committee that the position of Irish consumers has been further improved since through the recent introduction of Consumer Protection Code (replacing an interim Code of Conduct for Insurance Undertakings set up in 2003) that lays down, among other things detailed requirements as to the amount and type of information to be provided to consumers (see H4 and WE 61). IFSRA added in H4 that it is " developing administrative sanctions procedures which will allow us to impose sanctions on a firm which has committed a serious breach of the code ". During the meeting on 6 October 2006 in Dublin, the committee delegation also sought information from ISFRA as to the whether the Irish Financial Regulator had been in contact with their UK counterparts concerning Equitable Life's situation and possible implications for Irish policyholders during the critical period between 1998 and 2000 and requested copies of relevant correspondence between Irish and UK regulators. Ms O'Dea said that one " may assume that there has been such correspondence " but claimed that IFSRA would not be allowed to disclose it, because it would contain information that is to be regarded as confidential under the EU Life Directive. The committee maintained its request in a subsequent letter to IFSRA. IFSRA replied, stating that " we will now conduct a review of the information contained on the files