or distributed foodstuffs which do not comply with the relevant food law provisions, and thus endanger food safety, shall be held responsible for the direct short, medium and long-term consequences for human health. Amendment 75 Article 15, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 2. A feed business operator shall immediately inform the competent authorities if it considers or suspects that a feed which it placed on the market may not satisfy the feed safety requirements. It shall inform the competent authorities of the action taken to prevent risk arising from the use of that feed. 2. A feed product business operator shall immediately inform the competent authorities if it considers or suspects that a feed product which it placed on the market may not satisfy the feed product safety requirements. It shall inform the competent authorities of the action taken to prevent risk arising from the use of that feed product . Employees who become aware of possible risks concerning the safety of feed products shall not be penalised for informing the relevant authorities. Persons who, by virtue of their professional activities, consider or suspect that a feed product placed on the market may be potentially injurious to human health shall also provide such information without detriment to their employment. Amendment 76 Article 15, paragraph 5, subparagraph 1 5. A feed business operator responsible for import, retail or distribution activities which do not affect the packaging, labelling, safety or integrity of the feed, shall act with due care to help ensure compliance with the feed safety requirements. 5. A feed product business operator responsible for import, retail or distribution activities which do not affect the packaging, labelling, safety or integrity of the feed product , shall take the necessary precautions within its area of responsibility to ensure compliance with the feed product safety requirements. Amendment 77 Article 15, paragraph 5 a (new) 5a. Subject to the extent of their respective activities, operators in the animal feed product sector who have imported, produced, processed, transported, manufactured or distributed feed products which do not comply with the requirements laid down concerning the safety of animal feed products and which thus endanger food safety shall be held responsible for the direct short, medium and long-term consequences for human and animal health. Amendment 78 Article 16, paragraph 2 2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, food which is not intended to be placed on the market in the Community by reason of its being in transit from one third country to another, or intended to be processed for immediate exportation, may be allowed on to the territory of the Community provided that such food or its derivatives do not enter the Community market . 2. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, food which is not intended to be placed on the market in the Community by reason of its being in transit from one third country to another, or intended to be processed for immediate exportation, may be allowed on to the territory of the Community provided that such food or its derivatives are strictly excluded