of the negotiations Parliament may, on the basis of a report from the committee responsible, and after considering any relevant proposal tabled pursuant to Rule 114, adopt recommendations and require that these be taken into account before the conclusion of the international agreement under consideration. 6. When the negotiations are completed, but before any agreement is signed, the draft agreement shall be submitted to Parliament for opinion or for assent. For the assent procedure Rule 75 shall apply. 7. Parliament shall give its opinion on, or its assent to, the conclusion, renewal or amendment of an international agreement or a financial protocol concluded by the European Community in a single vote by a majority of the votes cast without amendments to the text of the agreement or protocol being admissible. 8. If the opinion adopted by Parliament is negative, the President shall request the Council not to conclude the agreement in question. 9. If Parliament withholds its assent to an international agreement, the President shall notify the Council that the agreement in question cannot be concluded. Rule 84 Procedures based on Article 300 of the EC Treaty in the case of provisional application or the suspension of international agreements or the establishment of the Community position in a body set up by an international agreement Where the Commission and/or the Council are under an obligation to inform Parliament immediately and fully, pursuant to Article 300(2) of the EC Treaty, a statement shall be made in Parliament, followed by a debate. Parliament may issue recommendations pursuant to Rule 83 or 90. CHAPTER 13 EXTERNAL REPRESENTATION OF THE UNION AND COMMON FOREIGN AND SECURITY POLICY Rule 85 Appointment of the High Representative for the common foreign and security policy 1. Prior to the appointment of a High Representative for the common foreign and security policy, the President shall invite the President-in-Office of the Council to make a statement to Parliament, pursuant to Article 21 of the EU Treaty. The President shall invite the President of the Commission to make a statement at the same time. 2. Upon the appointment of the new High Representative for the common foreign and security policy, pursuant to Article 207(2) of the EC Treaty, and before officially taking office, the High Representative shall be invited by the President to make a statement to, and answer questions from, the committee responsible. 3. Following the statements and answers referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and at the initiative of the committee responsible, or in accordance with Rule 114, Parliament may make a recommendation. Rule 86 Appointment of special representatives for the purposes of the common foreign and security policy 1. Where the Council intends to appoint a Special Representative under Article 18(5) of the EU Treaty, the President, at the request of the committee responsible, shall invite the Council to make a statement and answer questions concerning the mandate, the objectives and other relevant matters relating to the tasks and role to be performed by the Special Representative. 2. Once the Special Representative has been appointed, but prior to taking