of the Directive Mr JOSEPHS (H2) believes that the intention of the Directive was that contracts of insurance should be very carefully valued to compute the liabilities. This should be based on the precise wording of each class of contract. Mr JOSEPHS believes that " the UK system was not doing that at all, judging by the evidence of the amount of time given to various things - i.e., what the regulator's staff saw, what they did and so on ". 26. Articles 18 and 25 of 3LD not respected? Different ways to calculate solvency Mr. JOSEPHS, in H2, also reinforces this view by claiming that Article 18 of the 3LD on technical provisions was not respected given that " Equitable insisted on treating all policies alike, whether they were written as ‘defined benefit’ contracts, or in the later form as ‘investment’ contracts ." The contracts " were written so as to give their holders the absolute right to share in the investment return of the Society pro rata to net premiums paid ." Article 18 makes it an obligation that this right be reflected in the calculated liabilities for those policies, which, according to Mr. JOSEPHS, was not the case. He concludes that it " enabled the continued transfer of assets from holders of the newer policies to the favoured cohorts. " However, Christopher DAYKIN, Government Actuary, Head of GAD, claims in H4 that "as regards the reser ving basis, Equitable Life adopted a gross premium reserving approach, which was different to the approach used by most other companies but it had to demonstrate the equivalence of what it was doing to the net premium reserve requirement. It always succeeded in doing that satisfactorily. So its reserves – at least up until 1998 – were always in line with the requirements of the regulations." Article 25 on the minimum solvency requirement requires a company to have an excess of assets over liabilities, at least equivalent to the solvency margin requirement. However, it seems there are different ways of calculating solvency. David STRACHAN, FSA tries to clarify the issue in H4 by saying that "Equitable has always been solvent and in its regulatory returns it has always reported that it is currently meeting its regulatory solvency requirements. There are, in fact, at least three different bases that are used: the approach Chris Daykin has described which characterised the regime for much of the 1990s and was consistent with the Third Life Directive; there is a basis of calculation which was produced by Lord Penrose in his report that was based on figures produced by Equitable for its own purposes – those figures were not provided to the regulator; the third basis, which is the current basis, is the FSA’s new realistic solvency requirements". However, answering a Member's question during H5, Stuart BAYLISS, Managing Director of Annuity Direct, says that the UK regulators "had been buying Equitable’s story on solvency margins for a very long time. It goes back to that illustration on new sales: as long as you are generating new sales