1 shall not affect Member States" right to require a short-term visa for third-country nationals not covered by the mutual recognition arrangements laid down in Article 21 of the Convention Implementing the Schengen Agreement. 2. A researcher residing for no more than three months in another Member State may conduct his research work on the basis of the hosting agreement concluded in the first Member State, provided that he has sufficient resources in the other Member State and that that State does not consider him to pose a threat to public policy, public security or public health. 2a. Should the researcher reside for more than three months in another Member State, the Member States may require that a new hosting agreement be concluded, to cover his research work in the Member State concerned. In any event, the conditions set out in Articles 5 and 6 shall be complied with vis-à-vis the other Member State. 2b. Where, under the relevant legislation, mobility is conditional upon the issue of a visa or residence permit, the visa or permit shall be granted without delay and within a period that, while allowing the competent authorities sufficient time to process the application, does not hamper the continuation of the research work. Member States shall not require the researcher to leave their territory in order to submit an application for a visa or residence permit. Amendment 21 Article 13, paragraph 2 c (new) 2c. During the period of validity of his residence permit, the researcher may apply for a new hosting agreement in the same or another Member State. The new application shall be treated by a simplified procedure, which does not include examination of the condition stipulated in Article 5(2)(a)(ii), provided that the initial research organisation provides written confirmation that the work has been carried out satisfactorily up to the time of submission of the new application. Amendment 22 Article 15 paragraph 1 1. The relevant authorities in the Member State shall notify the applicant in writing, in accordance with the notification procedures laid down in the relevant national legislation, of their decisions regarding his application for admission or for the renewal of his residence permit at the latest within 30 days of the date on which the application was submitted. Member States shall lay down in national legislation the consequences for the authorities concerned of failing to take a decision by this deadline. In exceptional cases involving complex applications, the deadline may be extended. 1. The relevant authorities in the Member State shall notify the applicant in writing without delay , in accordance with the notification procedures laid down in the relevant national legislation, of their decisions regarding his application for admission or for the renewal of his residence permit at the latest within 30 days of the date on which the application was submitted. Member States shall lay down in national legislation the consequences for the authorities concerned of failing to take a decision by this deadline. In exceptional cases involving complex applications, the deadline may be extended , but in no case by more