ethical aspects of clinical research in developing countries http://ec.europa.eu/european_group_ethics/docs/avis17_en.pdf . The Commission has also financed research projects on capacity building on ethical questions in developing countries (Africa — NEBRA, EDCTP; Latin America — Eulabor, China –BIONET etc.), and has organised conferences in this area (e.g. Globalisation, epidemics http://ec.europa.eu/research/science-society/index.cfm?fuseaction=public.topic&id=321 ). Fourthly, the Commission is financing, through the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP), capacity building for clinical trials in developing countries. The EDCTP was created under the 6th Framework Programme for Research with the overall aim to reduce poverty in developing countries by improving the health of the populations through new clinical interventions (to fight Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS), Malaria and Tuberculosis). Projects financed so far by the EDCTP include clinical trials on poverty-related diseases, training activities on clinical trials for clinicians and researchers in sub-Saharan Africa, and more than 14 projects on ethics (courses and seminars, establishment of African national or institutional ethical review committees, establishment of regional ethics coordinating offices in developing countries). The EDCTP functioning is continuously providing specific information useful for the ongoing strategic discussion on the Clinical Trials legislation in Europe. Finally, the Commission actively participates in international activities to harmonise requirements for the development of medicinal products and the conduct of clinical trials, such as the International Conference of Harmonisation. In this context, the Commission encourages the adoption of these international standards by all third countries, as well as the application of relevant principles of Community legislation such as the ethical provisions provided for in Directive 2001/20/EC. 4. Clinical trials are usually conducted as ‘controlled clinical trials’ randomised and as appropriate versus placebo or versus an established medicinal product of proven therapeutic value. The treatment of the control groups will depend on ethical considerations and the therapeutic area. In some instances, it may therefore be more pertinent to compare the efficacy of a new medicinal product with that of an established medicinal product of proven therapeutic value rather than with a placebo. There is, however, no general rule applicable to all circumstances. The decision to require placebo and/or active control studies has been and will be taken on a case-by case basis. In practice, three main scenarios are usually distinguished: — a new medicine in the therapeutic area where no pharmacological treatment is available. In that case, data will usually come from randomised and where possible placebo controlled trials; — a new medicine in a therapeutic area where placebo is deemed unethical and an active control exists. In this case, controlled trials will normally be against an active comparator; — a new medicine in a therapeutic area where placebo is deemed ethical and one or more established medicines are available. Under this scenario, the use of placebo may be necessary to determine certain scientific parameters, such as the sensitivity of the assay in comparison with an active control. For more scientific details, the Honourable Members are referred to relevant international guidelines on the subject Guideline E10 of the International Conference on Harmonisation: “Choice Of Control Group And Related Issues In Clinical Trials,”