Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (4 December 2007) EU support to agriculture, forestry and rural development plays an important role in the provision of environmental and ecosystem services and the sustainable use and conservation of natural resources. The recent reforms of the common agricultural policy (CAP) have contributed to creating a framework for the progressive integration of environmental protection concerns, including water quality protection requirements, into EU agricultural policy. The sustainable management of water, including its qualitative aspects, is a prerequisite for the long-term sustainability of agricultural production and the protection of natural resources, including marine resources. There are already stringent obligations under EC law (e.g. Nitrates Directive Directive 2000/60/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, OJ L 327, 22.12.2000. , Water Framework Directive Council Directive 91/676/EEC of 12 December 1991 concerning the protection of waters against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources, OJ L 375, 31.12.1991. ) and initiatives that have been launched (proposed Marine Strategy Directive) that provide for the measures that may be necessary to reduce nutrients and ensure a good status of fresh and marine waters. The proposed Marine Strategy Directive which is now at its second reading should provide a comprehensive framework to address eutrophication status of marine waters throughout the Baltic Sea. This action will be carried out in close cooperation with the Helsinki Commission under the Helsinki Convention to which the Community is a party. A Baltic Sea Action Plan which includes in particular the need to adopt stringent measures to combat eutrophication was adopted on 15 November 2007 by a ministerial meeting of the Helsinki Commission. Concerning the ‘Health Check’ of the CAP, the overall purpose of the exercise is to make sure that the CAP instruments function as they should and to identify any adjustments that may be needed to meet the stated objectives of the Policy. One of the issues discussed in this context is how the CAP instruments can contribute better to sustainable water management in agriculture. The Health Check proposal is still under elaboration and a communication is scheduled for adoption by the Commission later in 2007. It is therefore not possible at this stage to provide any details in this respect. However, there are clearly indications that incentives for better water management, including improved water quality, could be provided through a strengthening of existing Rural Development measures. With the CAP budget now fixed until 2013, the only way of bolstering Rural Development funds, would be through an increase in compulsory modulation. The cross-compliance scheme provides another route for furthering the achievement of environmental protection objectives. Proposals aimed at improving the control and sanctions aspects of the scheme are already in the respective legislative procedure, and are expected to enter into force in 2008/2009. Furthermore the Health Check will also address the scope of cross-compliance, e.g. by examining, and where appropriate amending, the present list of Statutory Management Requirements (SMR) and Good Agricultural and Environmental Conditions (GAEC),