organisations in their decision-making processes or in the implementation and supervision of their decisions, and will as such remain weak as governing structures; 18. Notes that the consensus method of decision-making which characterises many of the global cooperation bodies does not encourage bold decisions to be taken and often leads to vague non-binding agreements; urges the global forum to emulate the EU's move away from exclusive reliance on unanimity; 19. Takes the view that the commitments given in the G20 need to be more concrete and that progress needs to be monitored by an independent, more formal and inclusive body with statutes and a secretariat, such as the IMF; 20. Welcomes steps agreed by the Summit meeting of G20 Finance Ministers in Paris on 19 February 2011 to measure imbalances by a set of indicators; underlines that these indicators should cover internal imbalances, such as public debt and deficits and private savings and debt, as well as external imbalances from trade and investment flows and transfers; 21. Calls on the G20 to carry out on a regular basis a Mutual Assessment Process based on a G20 framework and the above indicators in order to provide policy options which will achieve strong, sustainable and balanced growth; 22. Underlines that financial actors operate on a global level and, from now on, considers that the coordination gaps in financial regulations need to be addressed to avoid allowing certain financial actors to take advantage of regulatory arbitrage; Reform of the international monetary and financial system and its institutions 23. Stresses that the European Union must play a leading role in global economic reform to make international institutions more legitimate, transparent and accountable and that, to an ever greater extent, the European Union should act as one party in international economic affairs; 24. Calls for an EU seat in the IMF and the World Bank; calls for a more democratic IMF, including an open and merit-based election of its managing director, and a substantial increase in voting rights for developing and transitional nations; 25. Maintains that global economic governance must be sufficiently responsive, flexible and pragmatic to make it possible to establish which arrangements are the most suitable, depending on the circumstances and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity; 26. Stresses that the European Union must play a leading role in global economic reform to make international institutions and informal forums more legitimate, transparent and accountable; 27. Notes that these institutions and forums, in particular the G20, lack a certain parliamentary legitimacy at the global level, and consequently calls on them to involve parliaments in their decision-making processes; deplores the democratic shortcomings of some partners; 28. Notes the problems that may arise if the policies pursued by the various informal forums and international economic and financial institutions lack coherence; maintains that measures to promote global institutional coordination should be adopted via the IMF; 29. Underlines the need for a global understanding and a common approach regarding monetary policy, international trade, sustainable public finances and flexible currencies based on economic fundamentals; considers that the global economy should