protect civilians, to allow delivery of aid and to respect humanitarian space and the safety of humanitarian workers; demands therefore that conditions be immediately created for adequate response to the ongoing human rights and humanitarian crisis in eastern Chad; calls on the Chadian authorities to fully cooperate with EUFOR CHAD/CAR in taking effective measures to protect civilians in eastern Chad; 5. Recalls its resolution of 26 September 2007 endorsing the launch of an ESDP operation in eastern Chad and northern CAR and urges the Council and Commission to speed up the decision process for the launching of the operation in order to ensure that the first deployment of soldiers starts before the end of the year and that the mission will reach its full potential by February or early March of next year; 6. Reiterates the importance of the neutrality of the European force and potential risks involved with the force being perceived as a French-led operation, therefore calls on other Member States to provide significant troop contributions to the force and for EUFOR to conduct a comprehensive communication strategy to communicate its neutral mandate to the local population. 6. Stresses the regional dimension of the Darfur crisis and the urgent need to address the destabilising impact of the crisis on the humanitarian and security situation in neighbouring countries, including Chad, and reiterates its willingness to carry out this EU military bridging operation in support of a multidimensional UN presence; 7. Deplores the President of Sudan's insistence that the UNAMID force, which the EUFOR CHAD/CAR is due to bolster, should be exclusively African in nature, and urges the Sudanese authorities to put an end to the delaying tactics that stand in the way of a rapid deployment of the AU/UN hybrid force; 8. Emphasises that no peacekeeping mission in the eastern part of Chad and the northern part of the CAR can be successful without a genuine political reconciliation process; calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities by all parties, followed by a negotiated ceasefire with comprehensive monitoring mechanisms; 9. Urges the European Union to press for a comprehensive peace process, using pressure and incentives to encourage all parties to return to the negotiation table and for talks to address all levels of conflict currently taking place within Chad including government-rebel tensions and interethnic conflict. 10. Calls on Chadian authorities to investigate reports of rape and other serious human rights violations and abuses and bring its perpetrators to justice; 11. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the African Union, the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Presidents, Governments and Parliaments of Chad, the CAR and Sudan.