(for Jean-Louis Bourlanges) and Johannes Voggenhuber. SHORT JUSTIFICATION While substantive progress has been made, the single market for financial services remains incomplete. Markets remain segmented. Yet, the completion of a genuine single market for financial services is crucial for economic growth and job creation in the European Union. It will increase European economic competitiveness and contribute to economic and social cohesion. In order to achieve this fundamental objective, the European Commission is proposing a new financial services committee structure in the fields of banking, insurance and investment funds. This comes down to an extension of the Lamfalussy-process in the above named fields. The Commission as well as the Council is stressing the urgency of the measures. The committee on constitutional affairs fully understands the urgency and the importance of the extension of the Lamfalussy process. Nevertheless, we have an obligation to look into this matter from a constitutional point of view. Fact is, that with the Intergovernmental Conference failing to conclude in December last year on one hand, and with the Council not proceeding with a reform of the existing comitology Decision December 2002, proposal for a Council Decision amending Decision 1999/468/EEC, COM(2002)719 . EP Resolution A5-0266/2003 , adopted on 2 September 2003 (P5_TA (2003) 0352). on the other hand, the European Parliament is no further forward with its insistence on an institutional balance in this area. The committee on constitutional affairs therefore supports the economic and monetary affairs committee in its demands for a call-back mechanism for the EP, a sunset clause and the notice that this extension of the Lamfalussy procedure is without prejudice to and distinct from possible decisions regarding the organisation of supervision at a European level. Besides these three demands, which are preconditions for the EP's support for the extension of the Lamfalussy process, the constitutional affairs committee is urging the members of the Intergovernmental Conference to agree on a draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. The only way to restore the institutional balance between the Council and the European Parliament in a profound way, is to revise the current article 202 of the EC Treaty as has been done by the Convention on the future of Europe in article I-35 of its draft Constitution. At the same time and because temporary provisions are needed until any Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe enters into force, the constitutional affairs committee calls upon the Council to proceed with the Commission's proposal for a Council Decision amending Decision 1999/468/EEC. The European Parliament has in September 2003 agreed with the Commission's proposal as amended. It is now up to the Council to undertake action. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Constitutional Affairs calls on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by AFCO Amendment 1 Recital 6 a (new) 6a. The commitments made by the European Commission regarding securities legislation via the letter from Commissioner Bolkestein of 2 October 2001 and the declaration of President Prodi of 5