proposed initiative right after the registration and without any delay. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. All registered initiatives shall be given a reference number. The Commission database for storing the registered initiatives should provide a weekly indicator showing the stage reached by any given initiative. Justification This will keep citizens up to date on the status of various citizens' initiatives. Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The organiser shall be responsible for the collection of the necessary statements of support from signatories for a proposed citizens' initiative which has been registered in accordance with Article 4. 1. The organiser shall be responsible for collecting from signatories the necessary statements of support for a proposed citizens' initiative which has been registered in accordance with Article 4 and in respect of which a positive decision on admissibility has been taken . Amendment 19 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Only statements of support forms which comply with the model set out in annex III may be used for this purpose. The organiser shall complete the forms as indicated in annex III prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories. The information given in the forms shall correspond to the information contained in the register. Only statement of support forms which contain the information required in the example provided in Annex III may be used for this purpose. The organiser shall complete the forms as indicated in Annex III before initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories. The information given in the forms shall correspond to the information contained in the register. Justification The intention is not to restrict the organisers with a certain form but give them the possibility to use their own forms, nevertheless providing the information required in the model presented by the Commission. Amendment 20 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. All statements of support shall be collected after the date of registration of the proposed initiative and within a period that shall not exceed 12 months. 4. Statements of support shall be collected only after the date of the positive decision on admissibility in respect of the proposed initiative and within a period that shall not exceed 12 months. Amendment 21 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 – point d Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (d) the system can generate individual statements of support in a form complying with the model set out in Annex III, in order to allow for the control by the Member States, in accordance with Article 9(2). (d) the system can generate individual statements of support in a form which contains the information required in the example provided in Annex III, in order to allow for the control by Member States, in accordance with