the approach of the Union to a particular matter pursuant to Article 34(2)(a) of the EU Treaty. 2. Exceptionally, at the request of the Commission or the Council, a committee may decide to hold its proceedings in camera. 3. The debate referred to in Article 39(3) of the EU Treaty shall be held in accordance with the arrangements laid down in Rule 103(2), (3) and (4). Rule 93 Consultation of Parliament in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters Consultation of Parliament pursuant to Article 34(2)(b), (c) and (d) of the EU Treaty shall be dealt with pursuant to Rules 34 to 37, 40, 41 and 51. Where applicable, consideration of the proposal shall then be placed, at the latest, on the agenda of the last sitting to be held before expiry of the time limit laid down in accordance with Article 39(1) of the EU Treaty. When Parliament is consulted on the draft Council decision appointing the Director and Board members of Europol, Rule 101 shall apply mutatis mutandis. Rule 94 Recommendations in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters 1. The committee responsible for matters relating to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters may draw up recommendations to the Council in the field covered by Title VI of the EU Treaty after obtaining authorisation from the Conference of Presidents or on a proposal within the meaning of Rule 114. 2. In urgent cases the authorisation referred to in paragraph 1 may be granted by the President, who may likewise authorise an emergency meeting of the committee concerned. 3. Recommendations drawn up in this way shall be included on the agenda for the next part-session. Rule 90(4) shall apply mutatis mutandis. (See also interpretation under Rule 114.) CHAPTER 15 BREACH BY A MEMBER STATE OF FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES Rule 95 Determination of a breach 1. Parliament may, on the basis of a specific report of the committee responsible under Rule 45: (a) vote on a reasoned proposal calling on the Council to act pursuant to Article 7(1) of the EU Treaty; (b) vote on a proposal calling on the Commission or the Member States to submit a proposal pursuant to Article 7(2) of the EU Treaty; (c) vote on a proposal calling on the Council to act pursuant to Article 7(3) or, subsequently, Article 7(4) of the EU Treaty; 2. Any request from the Council for assent on a proposal submitted pursuant to Article 7(1) and (2) of the EU Treaty along with the observations submitted by the Member State shall be announced to Parliament. Except in urgent and justified circumstances, Parliament shall take its decision on a proposal from the committee responsible. 3. Decisions under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall require a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, representing a majority of Parliament's component Members. 4. The committee responsible may submit an accompanying motion for a resolution when Parliament is called upon to give its assent pursuant to paragraph 2. This motion for a resolution shall set out Parliament's views on a serious breach