Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (15 March 2007) In several European countries, foreign currency loans to consumers form a considerable part of overall mortgage lending. In some countries, these loans are euro denominated, while in others, such as Hungary and Poland, Swiss franc loans dominate. Foreign currency mortgage loans present certain risks to financial institutions and mortgage borrowers alike. As highlighted in a recent Report by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), with as much as two-thirds of mortgage lending in Poland indexed to foreign currency, a large depreciation of the złoty could sharply increase the debt burden of borrowers, leading to a rise in defaults and possibly home repossessions http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/scr/2006/cr06392.pdf . The rise in defaults would also impact on financial institutions who would have to ensure that the potential risks are taken into account in their risk management policies. In July 2005, the Commission published a Green Paper on Mortgage Credit in the EU COM(2005)327 final. . The publication of the Green Paper launched a broad consultation, which concluded at the end of 2005 with a public hearing Further information on the Green Paper on Mortgage Credit in the EU and the results of the consultation is available at: http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/finservices-retail/home-loans/integration_en.htm#greenpaper . Contributions received as part of this consultation drew particular attention to the problem of foreign currency loans in several Member States. Several stakeholders, in particular consumer representatives, expressed their concerns about the risks of foreign currency mortgage lending in some Member States. The Commission will address this issue in its forthcoming White Paper on Mortgage Credit in the EU which will be published at the end of June 2007. According to the information currently available to the Commission, the recommendation from the Commission for Banking Supervision, which has a non-binding nature, aims at improving the risk management and disclosure practices of financial institutions in line with good international practices, and does not specifically restrict the products being offered by financial institutions. Hence, from the information currently available, the Commission cannot draw any conclusions about a possible incompatibility between the recommendation and Community law. The Commission will however continue to monitor this situation carefully.