be deferred until the financial year 2005 in order to allow the necessary time to put in place the essential internal procedures involved. (49) A suitable framework, tailored to the specific management needs, should be provided for the financial rules to apply to bodies set up by the Communities and having legal personality, which receive a subsidy from the general budget of the European Communities. At the same time, and without in any way impairing the organic autonomy required by these bodies for the performance of their tasks, the substance of the rules governing certain matters, and in particular discharge and accounting, needs to be harmonised. The Commission's internal auditor will exercise the same powers over these bodies as over Commission departments. The financial rules internal to these bodies will have to be adapted accordingly to be compatible with this Financial Regulation. The Commission should accordingly be empowered to draw up a model financial regulation, which Community bodies can depart from only with the Commission's agreement, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: PART ONE COMMON PROVISIONS TITLE I SCOPE Article 1 This Regulation lays down the rules for the establishment and implementation of the general budget of the European Communities, hereinafter "the budget". For the purposes of this Regulation, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the European Data-Protection Supervisor shall be treated as Community institutions. Article 2 Any provision concerning the implementation of the revenue and expenditure of the budget, contained in another legislative act, must comply with the budgetary principles set out in Title II. TITLE II BUDGETARY PRINCIPLES Article 3 The budget shall be established and implemented in compliance with the principles of unity, budgetary accuracy, annuality, equilibrium, unit of account, universality, specification, sound financial management and transparency as set out in this Regulation. CHAPTER 1 Principles of unity and of budget accuracy Article 4 1. The budget is the instrument which, for each financial year, forecasts and authorises all revenue and expenditure considered necessary for the European Community and the European Atomic Energy Community. 2. The revenue and expenditure of the Communities shall comprise: a) the revenue and expenditure of the European Community, including administrative expenditure occasioned for the institutions by the provisions of the Treaty on European Union relating to the common foreign and security policy and police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and the operating expenditure occasioned by implementation of those provisions where this is charged to the budget; b) the expenditure and revenue of the European Atomic Energy Community. 3. The budget shall record the guarantee for borrowing-and-lending operations entered into by the Communities and payments to the Guarantee Fund for external actions. Article 5 1. Subject to Article 74, no revenue shall be collected and no expenditure effected unless booked to a line in the budget. 2. No expenditure may be committed or authorised in excess of the authorised appropriations. 3. An appropriation may not be entered in the budget if it is not for an item of expenditure considered necessary. 4. Subject to Articles 18 and 74, interest