had to the extent to which the procedures enable the firm to obtain the best result reasonably achievable having regard to the conditions of the order, and the conditions prevailing in the marketplace to which the investment firm can reasonably be expected to have access under the terms of the execution policy. The competent authority must regularly monitor compliance of investment firms with these obligations. 4. Member States shall require investment firms to review, on a regular basis, their execution arrangements and, where appropriate, make changes to them so as to obtain the best result reasonably achievable for their clients. Member States shall require that investment firms implement effective and efficient procedures for monitoring execution quality. In assessing these procedures, regard shall be had to the extent to which the procedures enable the firm to identify and correct, where appropriate, consistent inefficiencies in its execution practices. 5. In order to ensure the protection necessary for investors, the fair and orderly functioning of markets, and to ensure the uniform application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), adopt implementing measures concerning: a) the factors that may be taken into account for determining best execution or the calculation of best net price prevailing in the marketplace for the size and type of order and type of client , taking particular account of whether the client is a retail investor or a professional client ; b) the procedures which, taking into account the scale of operations of different investment firms, may be considered as constituting reasonable and effective methods of obtaining access to the execution venues which offer the most favourable terms of execution in the marketplace. 6. The competent authority of the home Member State shall ensure that the obligations of this provision and the implementing measures adopted under paragraph 5 are complied with by investment firms when providing services in other Member States. The competent authority of the Member State in which a branch is located shall enforce the obligations of this provision in respect of the services provided by a branch to its clients. 7. The obligation referred to in paragraph 1 shall not apply if the investment firm has agreed otherwise with a professional client. Article 20 Client order handling rules 1. Member States shall require that investment firms authorised to execute orders on behalf of clients implement procedures and arrangements which provide for the fair and expeditious execution of client orders, relative to other client orders or the trading interests of the investment firm. 2. Member States shall ensure that investment firms operate procedures or arrangements or rules for executing otherwise comparable client orders which ensure that the firm does not knowingly execute orders out of time priority, unless this is carried out in accordance with a client order aggregation policy or by agreement with the client. 3. Member States shall ensure that investment firms, before proceeding to execute retail client orders , disclose to their retail clients their execution policy, including whether orders are to be executed