Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (18 July 2008) As indicated by the Honourable Member, the remuneration of company directors has been in the focus of the Commission's activity in the field of corporate governance over the past few years. Thus, in 2004, the Commission adopted a recommendation aiming at increasing transparency on remuneration Commission recommendation of 14 December 2004 fostering an appropriate regime for the remuneration of directors of listed companies (2004/913/EC), OJ L 385, 29.12.2004. . This recommendation was based on the principle that the structure and level of pay are matters falling within the competence of companies and their shareholders. As a follow up to the 2004 recommendation, the Commission adopted a report Report on the application by Member States of the EU of the Commission recommendation on directors' remuneration, Commission staff working document, Brussels 13.7.2007, SEC(2007)1022. on the application of the recommendation by Member States. In substance, the report showed that disclosure on individual pay was largely followed but prior transparency and shareholders' control on remuneration could be improved. Concerning the specific questions raised by the Honourable Member: 1. There is no direct collection of data concerning directors' remuneration at European level. The Statistical Office of the European Communities (ESTAT) regularly produces indicators on the distribution of income. According to the data collected for EU-25, the highest income was about five times greater than the lowest income in 2006 The income quintile ratio measures the ratio of disposable income received by the 20 % of the population with the highest income (top quintile) to that received by the 20 % of the country population with the lowest income (lowest quintile). . The lowest ratio can be found in Denmark (3.4) and the highest in Latvia (8). Data reported by The Economist (30 April 2008) from a study conducted by Towers Perrin, a professional consultancy service firm, for 1999 suggests that chief executives receive far more pay relative to workers in the United States than in other countries: on average 475 times more than workers. According to the same study, for Europe the income of executives seems to be 11 to 24 times that of their employees. 2. The Commission believes that remuneration is essentially a matter for companies and their shareholders. The Commission will continue to monitor the situation in Member States and, in particular, intends to look into companies' practices in order to determine whether current measures should be reviewed. 3. The Commission believes that pay should be linked to performance. Shareholders should hold boards to account on this issue. The Eurogroup has recently discussed the levels of executives' pay. Ministers had a general exchange of views on this subject, but no precise proposals were made. All countries tax the salary as well as profit sharing and bonus payments on a regular income tax basis. However, there are tax exceptions in place in many countries for other pay packages such as shares, stock options and severance packages for managers. 4. The issue of staff acquiring shares at preferential prices deserves special attention, as