Question for written answer E-002514/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Ole Christensen (S&D) (17 March 2011) Subject: Follow-up to Question E‑3175/10 on a common working language for rail transport in the EU On 6 May 2010, the Commission answered my question on the introduction of a common language in the rail sector that it had no plans to introduce English as the common language. The Commission considered that safety reasons could not be invoked in the short and medium term to justify the introduction of a common language, and that the economic costs were too high. In this connection, I would like to draw the Commission’s attention to the fact that the rail sector will become more international in the future as a result of EU core values concerning the internal market and the free movement of workers. Putting rail services out to tender opens up the market for foreign companies and a mobile workforce, which makes it necessary to use a common language in order to ensure a high level of safety across nationalities. This was also the view taken in the Atkins Report Training and staff requirements for railway staff in cross-border operations: Atkins — final report, 2002. and the Danish study Danish Study commissioned by the European Commission: Rail training 2020: Training needs and offers in the European railway area the next 10-15 years. on future training needs for train drivers that the Commission itself commissioned. Even though it may be expensive to introduce English as the common language in the short term, this represents a long-term investment. Belgium offers proof of this, as it introduced language training for all train staff following the serious rail accident in 2001. I would also like to draw the Commission’s attention to Directive 2007/59/EC on the certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains on the railway system in the Community, in which the Commission proposes the harmonisation of train driver certification procedures, including minimum standards regarding their professional qualifications and knowledge of languages. Given that a common language is recommended by several reports and that the EU Directive itself proposes language harmonisation for safety-related information and that safety systems in Europe in general should be updated and standardised, will the Commission take the initiative to introduce English as the common working language for rail transport in the EU?