supply' the Commission referred to the need to expand the European energy infrastructure still further (particularly in Southern Europe, between France and Spain), but there are still political and financial obstacles to this. The main aim is to realise two priority objectives: to ensure security of energy supply and to complete the internal market in energy. The Commission notes that a functioning internal market in electricity and gas, in which there should also be cross-border trade and competition, is inconceivable without the necessary infrastructure. The present proposal is aimed at amending the TEN-Energy Guidelines by identifying a distinct category of priority projects among the projects of common interest. The projects of common interest are those which correspond to the criteria and objectives fixed by the TEN-Energy Guidelines. The current list was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council as an Annex to the Decision establishing the TEN-Energy Guidelines in 1996, and added to in 1997 and 1999. The updating of the list of projects is foreseen in this proposal (see Annex III). The projects of common interest are defined more broadly (10 thematic projects instead of the current 90 detailed projects). The detailed project definitions are incorporated into the project specifications mentioned in Annex III of the proposal. This new structure introduced by the proposal is an important difference with regard to the current Decision. It is thus proposed to identify a category of priority projects of European interest among the projects of common interest. This category will include a restricted number of energy network projects which will have very important impact from the point of view of the essential criteria of energy policy, i.e. completing the internal market and reinforcing security of supply (see Annex I). The Commission proposes to focus the means available under the TEN policy on the priority projects. In particular, priority will be given to the priority projects when funding under the TEN Financial Support Regulation is decided. The Commission also believes that when deciding on financial support under the TEN Regulation, priority should be given to the development phase (which follows the phase of initial studies), including the removal of obstacles to carrying out projects; previously, priority was given to the design and initial feasibility study phase (see also point 2.). 2.) New Member States will have to be integrated in the internal market in energy. The present proposal takes into account a few projects concerning the connection between EU Member States and candidate countries (see for example Annexe III, project f) and h). 2.) The Commission proposal on amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 laying down general rules for the granting of Community financial aid in the field of trans-European networks The present proposal for a revision of the Guidelines for Trans-European Energy Networks (TEN-Energy) is closely linked to the proposed amendment of the rules for the granting of Community aid in this field COM(2002) 134 ; Report by Mr. Turchi ( A5-0188/2002 ), which was adopted in plenary on 2 July 2002; see also the opinion by the Committee on Industry, External Trade,