of employment are other important goals. The ECB is required to support the general economic policies in the Community with a view to contributing to the achievement of these goals, provided that price stability is not jeopardized. In my view, the maintenance of price stability and the attainment of sustainable growth and high employment are not conflicting but complementary objectives in the long run and, in general, over the medium term as well. The monetary policy strategy of the ECB takes into account both parts of the ECB’s mandate and contributes to the achievement of the real economic goals of the Community. Let me briefly elaborate on the previous two statements. There is broad consensus that maintaining price stability contributes, through a variety of channels, to establishing conditions conducive to output and employment growth in the long run. In addition, it protects society from the arbitrary redistribution of income and wealth resulting from unanticipated inflation, thus fostering social cohesion. But, maintaining price stability over the medium term can also help, in general, to limit undesirable output and employment volatility. The contribution of monetary policy in stabilising output and employment fluctuations over the medium term depends on features of the central bank’s strategy as well as on the credibility of its commitment to price stability. The ECB’s monetary policy strategy with its forward-looking, medium-term orientation and its quantitative definition of price stability contributes to the stabilisation of output and employment in various ways. Monetary policy decisions do take into account the evolution of output and other real variables in assessing inflation prospects. The medium-term orientation implies a gradual response to certain shocks, particularly on the supply side, to avoid inducing undesirable large output fluctuations. And the definition of price stability helps anchor expectations, influencing favourably short-term inflation – output dynamics. Thus, monetary policy can contribute to the attainment of the Treaty’s wider objectives in parallel with the pursuit of its primary goal, in the long run and over the medium term. Monetary policy, however, can not influence directly potential growth and long-term employment creation. The bulk of empirical evidence supports the theoretical proposition that money is “neutral” in the long run. Sustainable output and employment growth can be effectively pursued by policy measures and reforms which increase productivity and improve the functioning of labour and product markets. Improved productivity and labour market efficiency in the euro area will also enhance the effectiveness of monetary policy in achieving its primary objective and will reduce output volatility. The effective pursuit and maintenance of price stability requires that the ECB should be fully independent in its decision-making. Independence is essential for safeguarding monetary policy from political pressures to focus excessively on the short-run economic situation. It is also required in order to fend off requests to focus on objectives that monetary policy cannot effectively achieve or to accommodate the undesirable side-effects of other policies on financial and product markets. Moreover, in a monetary union, independence also shields the central bank from national pressures in its conduct of the single monetary policy which aims at ensuring price