year, with the exception of crisis management aid and humanitarian aid operations. This work programme shall be implemented through the publication of calls for proposals save in duly substantiated exceptional cases of urgency or where the characteristics of the beneficiary leave no other choice for a given action. 2. All grants awarded in the course of a financial year shall be published annually with due observance of the requirements of confidentiality and security. Article 111 1. One action may give rise to the award of only one grant from the budget to any one beneficiary. 2. A beneficiary may be awarded only one operating grant from the budget per financial year. Article 112 1. A grant may be awarded for an action which has already begun only where the applicant can demonstrate the need to start the action before the agreement is signed. In such cases, expenditure eligible for financing may not have been incurred prior to the date of submission of the grant application, save in duly substantiated exceptional cases as provided for in the basic act or for the expenditure necessary for the proper implementation of crisis management aid or humanitarian aid operations as laid down in the implementing rules. No grant may be awarded retrospectively for actions already completed. 2. The agreement on an operating grant may not be signed more than four months after the start of the beneficiary's budgetary year. Expenditure eligible for financing may not have been incurred before the grant application was lodged or before the start of the beneficiary's budgetary year. Article 113 1. The grant may not finance the entire costs of the action, subject to Title IV of part two. The grant may not finance the entire operating expenditure of the beneficiary body. 2. Unless otherwise specified in the basic act with regard to bodies pursuing an objective of general European interest, when operating grants are renewed, they shall be gradually decreased. CHAPTER 3 Award procedure Article 114 1. Grant applications submitted in writing by legal persons shall be eligible. By way of exception, depending on the nature of the action or the objective pursued by the applicant, the basic act may provide that natural persons may receive grants. 2. Grants may not be awarded to applicants who are, at the time of a grant award procedure, in one of the situations referred to in Articles 93 and 94. Applicants must certify that they are not in one of the situations listed in Article 93. 3. Administrative and financial penalties of an effective, proportionate and dissuasive nature may be imposed by the authorising officer, as provided in Articles 93 to 96 and in the implementing rules relating to those articles, on applicants who are excluded under paragraph 2. Article 115 1. The selection criteria shall be such as to make it possible to assess the applicant's ability to complete the proposed action or work programme. 2. The award criteria announced in advance in the call for proposals shall be such as to make it possible to assess the quality of the proposals