including statistics, reports, reviews, analysis and advice on issues of common interest to the Community and to Member States; (i) development and dissemination to competent authorities in Member States, to health and other professionals and, where appropriate, to other stakeholders and the general public of health information, knowledge, including statistics regarding health information under the Community statistical programme and in particular breakdown of collected data by gender, age, geographical location and income bracket , reports, reviews, analysis and advice on issues of common interest to the Community and to Member States; Amendment 29 Article 3, paragraph 2, point (d), indent (iv) (iv) relevant training activities; (iv) encouraging, developing and coordinating education and vocational training in the field of public health; Amendment 31 Article 3, paragraph 2, point (d), indent (via) (new) (via) supporting and promoting activities by the Community and the Member States to define and determine good practice, sound guidelines for health and quality guidelines for medicine based on scientific data. Amendment 32 Article 3, paragraph 2, point (da) (new) (da) Activities related to promoting an integrated health strategy by means of an intersectoral approach (i) creating links between the public health framework and other policies; (ii) establishing criteria and methodologies for the assessment and realisation of proposed policies regarding their impact on health. Amendment 33 Article 3, paragraph 2, point (db) (new) (db) Activities related to non-profit- making European non-governmental organisations operating at European level in the field of public health, either singly or with several coordinated associations working at national or regional level. Amendment 34 Article 5, paragraph 2, subparagraphs 1 a and 1 b (new) Within one year of the date of entry into force of this Decision, the Commission shall take the necessary measures to prepare, adopt and implement the changes and practical arrangements required for the development of the general objectives of the programme, together with appropriate structural arrangements to set up a coordinating centre for comprehensive and ongoing coordination of the programme. The Commission shall, if appropriate, table fresh proposals concerning the type of structural arrangements needed to implement the public health strategy, in particular as regards health monitoring and rapid response to threats to health. Amendment 35 Article 5, paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. In implementing the programme the Commission, together with the Member States, shall ensure compliance with all relevant legal provisions regarding personal data protection and the introduction of mechanisms to ensure the confidentiality and safety of such data. Amendment 36 Article 7, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 1. The financial framework for the implementation of the programme for the period specified in Article 1 is hereby set at EUR 280 million . 1. The financial framework for the implementation of the programme for the period specified in Article 1 is hereby set at EUR 380 million . During implementation of the programme, the amount to be committed for the implementation of each specific objective shall be not less than 25% of the total budget. Amendment 38 Article 8, paragraph 1, point (e) (e) the arrangements for the preparation of any structural arrangements