A6-0198/2008 29.5.2008 REPORT on amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure with respect to the approval of the Commission (2007/2128(REG)) Committee on Constitutional Affairs Rapporteur: Andrew Nicholas Duff PE 402.881v02-00 CONTENTS PROPOSAL FOR A EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT DECISION................................................3 RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE...........................................................................9 PROPOSAL FOR A EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT DECISION on amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure with respect to the approval of the Commission ( 2007/2128(REG) ) The European Parliament , – having regard to the letter from its President of 14 December 2006, – having regard to its resolution of 1 December 2005 on guidelines for the approval of the Commission OJ C 285 E, 22.11.2006, p. 137. , – having regard to Rules 201 and 202 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs ( A6‑0198/2008 ), 1. Decides to amend its Rules of Procedure as shown below; 2. Points out that the amendments will enter into force on the first day of the next part-session; 3. Instructs its President to forward this decision to the Council and the Commission, for information. Amendment 1 Parliament's Rules of Procedure Rule 99 – paragraph 2 Present text Amendment 2. The committee shall invite the nominee to make a statement and answer questions. 2. The committee shall invite the Commissioner-designate to make a statement and answer questions. The hearings shall be organised in such a way as to enable Commissioners-designate to disclose to Parliament all relevant information. Provisions relating to the organisation of the hearings shall be laid down in an annex to the Rules of Procedure 1 . 1 See Annex XVI b. Amendment 2 Parliament's Rules of Procedure Rule 99 – paragraph 6 Present text Amendment 6. In the event of portfolio changes during the Commission's term of office, the Commissioners concerned shall be invited to appear before the committees responsible for the areas of responsibility in question. 6. In the event of a substantial portfolio change during the Commission's term of office, the filling of a vacancy, or the appointment of a new Commissioner following the accession of a new Member State , the Commissioners concerned shall be invited to appear before the committees responsible for the areas of responsibility in question in accordance with paragraph 2 . Amendment 3 Parliament's Rules of Procedure Annex XVI b (new) Present text Amendment ANNEX XVI b Guidelines for the approval of the Commission 1. The following principles, criteria and arrangements shall apply for making the entire college of the Commission subject to Parliament's vote of consent: (a) Assessment Parliament shall evaluate Commissioners-designate on the basis of their general competence, European commitment and personal independence. It shall assess knowledge of their prospective portfolio and their communication skills. Parliament shall have particular regard to gender balance. It may express itself on the allocation of portfolio responsibilities by the President-elect. Parliament may seek any information relevant to its reaching a decision on the aptitude of the Commissioners-designate. It shall expect full disclosure of information relating to their financial interests. (b) Hearings Each Commissioner-designate shall be invited to