limits "established by the case law of the Court of Justice which requires, for example, that administrative authorities should act consistently and in good faith, avoid discrimination, comply with the principles of proportionality, equality and legitimate expectations and respect human rights and fundamental freedoms", F. whereas the Commission has stressed that this role is essential to the interests of European citizens, and has recognised the importance of the rule of law in this context Commission communication entitled "Better monitoring of the application of Community law" ( COM(2002)0725 final). , G. whereas the Commission confirms that its Communication on relations with the complainant regarding infringements of Community law sets out the administrative measures for the benefit of the complainant with which the Commission undertakes to comply when handling his/her complaint and assessing the infringement in question, H. whereas the Ombudsman considers that the Commission's failure to decide on a definitive position as regards the complainant's infringement complaint constitutes an instance of maladministration, I. whereas the Ombudsman's recommendation to the Commission is that it should deal with the complainant's complaint as rapidly and diligently as possible, 1. Endorses the European Ombudsman's recommendation to the Commission; 2. Stresses that the way in which the Commission handles complaints submitted by citizens in which an infringement of Community law by Member States is alleged should always be in conformity with principles of good administration; 3. Points out that, in its Communication on relations with the complainant regarding infringements of Community law, the Commission has entered into certain commitments as regards its handling of infringement complaints; 4. Points out that the Commission has indicated in its Communication that, as a general rule, it will decide whether to open infringement proceedings or to close the file within one year from the date of registration of the complaint and that it will inform the complainant in writing when this time limit is exceeded; 5. Accepts that in difficult and complicated cases the Commission's investigations may require more than one year; considers, however, that exceeding the one-year time-limit is justified only when investigations are indeed still ongoing; 6. Notes that in the present case concerning the German Government's failure to properly apply the Working Time Directive Directive 2003/88/EC, which replaced and repealed Directive 93/104/EC (OJ L 299, 18.11.2003, p. 9). the Commission intended to deal with the complaint in the light of its proposal for an amendment of the Directive and decided to await the outcome of the discussions on its proposal with the other Community institutions; 7. Recalls that that proposal was submitted in September 2004 and that there is no evidence that the Commission has taken any further steps since then in order to proceed with its investigation; 8. Notes that instead of taking one of two possible decisions – either to initiate formal infringement proceedings or to close the case – the Commission abstained from taking any further action as regards its investigation; 9. Is of the opinion that Community law does not envisage the possibility of disregarding existing laws and judgments on the grounds that new rules