Question for written answer E-012492/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Vincenzo Iovine (ALDE) , Catherine Grèze (Verts/ALE) and Oriol Junqueras Vies (Verts/ALE) (13 January 2012) Subject: VP/HR — Rights of the Mapuche Living in the heart of Patagonia, the Mapuche are the largest indigenous group in Chilean Patagonia. The territory which they inhabit has long been coveted by corporations seeking to carry out mining, forestry, and energy projects, most notably the Enel project ‘HydroAysen’. In the Lleulleu Lake area, exploration for recently‑discovered resources – including scandium and lithium – by mining companies, such as Manto Rojo, has had a particularly severe impact on the air, land, soil and water, causing potential health risks to the local population. To facilitate the implementation of these projects, land has been systematically expropriated and families living in those areas have been expelled. In addition, Chilean Environmental Law No. 20.417, published on 26 January 2010, streamlines the approval process for mining and energy projects that could potentially contaminate the ecosystem. The implementation of the aforementioned projects appears to be in violation of the following international agreements: 1. The EU‑Chile Association Agreement, in particular: (a) Title I, Article 2 on political dialogue aimed at promoting democratic values; (b) Title I, Article 28 on economic cooperation on the environment, which commits the parties to working together to protect and improve the environment. 2. The Declaration on the Rights of Persons Belonging to National or Ethnic, Religious and Linguistic Minorities, in particular: (a) Article 1(1) and (2), which requires states to protect the identity of ‘ethnic minorities within their territories’. 3. The European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights, in particular: (a) Article 37, which states that environmental protection must be integrated into EU policies. Does the Vice-President/High Representative believe that the benefits that these projects might bring justify the sacrifices to be made by the Mapuche community, which will see its ancestral lands destroyed? What action will the Vice-President/High Representative take to help preserve the cultural and indigenous identity of the Mapuche people, either by ensuring that European companies operating abroad follow European environmental standards, or by supporting efforts to ensure that indigenous land rights are respected?