shall be involved and provide scientific and technical assistance if necessary . 2. The Commission shall set up a permanent crisis unit immediately, in which the Authority shall be involved. The Authority shall provide scientific and technical assistance on the various management options available to the unit in the particular food crises concerned. Food and Veterinary Office officials shall also be involved in such crisis units. Amendments 175 and 182 Article 53, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Commission shall prepare a draft document laying down the measures to be taken within 30 days of receiving the Authority's opinion and shall send this document to Member States. Amendment 176 Article 54, paragraph 3 3. The crisis unit shall take any measures necessary to inform the public . 3. The crisis unit shall keep the public informed of the risks involved and the measures taken . Amendment 177 Article 55, title Emergency measures for food of Community origin or imported from a third country Emergency measures for food and feed products of Community origin or imported from a third country Amendment 178 Article 55, paragraph 1, point (a), point (i a) (new) (ia) suspension of the export of food and food aid in question; Amendment 179 Article 55, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 Within 10 working days, the measures taken shall be confirmed, amended, revoked or extended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2). Within 10 working days, the measures taken shall be confirmed, amended, revoked or extended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2) and the reasons for the Commission's decision shall be made public immediately . Amendment 180 Article 55, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 a (new) For such time as the measures adopted by the Commission have not been replaced by another legal act, they shall continue to apply. Amendment 181 Article 56 Where it is evident that food originating in the Community or imported from a third country is likely to constitute a serious risk to human health and the Commission does not consider it appropriate to adopt an emergency measure pursuant to Article 55, the Commission may examine the situation as soon as possible within the Committee set up in Article 57 and adopt the necessary measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2). It shall follow the development of the situation and, if necessary, it shall amend or revoke, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2), the measures taken. Where it is evident that food originating in the Community or imported from a third country is likely to constitute a risk to human health and the Commission does not consider it appropriate to adopt an emergency measure pursuant to Article 55, the Commission may examine the situation as soon as possible within the Committee set up in Article 57 and adopt the necessary measures in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2). It shall follow the development of the situation and, if necessary, it shall amend or revoke, in accordance with the procedure referred to