they must strengthen security of supply in the Community. The list of priority axes which meet these criteria shall be as set out in Annex I. All modifications to that Annex shall be decided upon in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty. 2. Projects of common interest identified in accordance with this Decision which are situated on the priority axes shall be declared "priority projects of European interest". 3. The Member States concerned and the Commission shall endeavour, each within its own sphere of competence, to further the carrying-out of priority projects of European interest in particular as far as cross-border projects are concerned. (5) Article 7 shall be replaced by the following: Article 7 When projects are considered, an effort shall be made to take into account the effects on competition. Private financing or financing by the economic operators concerned shall be encouraged. Any competitive distortion between the operators on the market shall be avoided as much as possible. ( 6 ) Articles 8, 9 and 10 are replaced by the following: Article 8 Restrictions 1. This Decision shall be without prejudice to any financial commitment by a Member State or the Community. 2. This Decision shall be without prejudice to the results of the environmental impact assessment of projects and of the plans or programmes which define the future authorisation framework for such projects. The results of the environmental impact assessments shall be taken into consideration. Article 9 Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee, to be called the TEN-Energy Committee composed of representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, the regulatory procedure laid down in Article 5 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, in compliance with Articles 7 and 8 thereof. 3. The period provided for in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be three months. Article 10 Report Every four years the Commission shall draw up a report on the implementation of this Decision, which it shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. Every two years Member States shall draw up a report on the implementation and progress made in carrying out priority projects of European interest which concern cross-border connections as mentioned in Annex III, projects (a), (b) and (f). This report shall be submitted to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of Regions. (7) After Article 10, the following Article shall be inserted: Article 10a Candidate countries The Commission shall present a proposal amending this Decision no later than 3 months before the accession of new Member States. ( 8 ) The Annex is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Decision. Article 2 This Decision shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States. Done at , For