9.9.2004 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the European Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Cristiana Muscardini on behalf of the UEN Group on the situation in Iraq European Parliament resolution on the situation in Iraq The European Parliament , – regard to its previous resolutions on the subject OJ L 54, 23.02.2004, p. 1. , – having regard to the UN Security Council resolutions 1483 UNSCR 1483 of 22 May 2003 on the ‘Authority’ in Iraq after the war and the competence of the UN Special Representative. , 1500 UNSCR 1500 of 14 August 2003 on the establishment of the Representative Governing Council of Iraq and the establishment of the United Nations Assistance Mission. , 1502 UNSCR 1502 of 26 August 2003 calling for the protection of UN and all humanitarian personnel. , 1546 UNSCR 1546 of 8 June 2004. and 1557, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure, A. welcoming the unanimous adoption of Resolution 1546, which confirms the full sovereignty of the Interim Government of Iraq from 30 June 2004, and supporting its implementation, B. welcoming the European Commission Communication on the European Union and Iraq and the reference framework for putting forward proposals, C. whereas, at its meeting of 17/18 June 2004, the European Council reaffirmed its commitment to establishing a secure, stable, unified, prosperous and democratic Iraq, D. welcoming the restoration of Iraqi sovereignty on 30 June 2004 and the formation of a fully sovereign Iraqi Interim Government, which assumes full authority from that day, E. welcoming the convening of a National Conference reflecting the diversity of Iraqi society and the formation of an Interim Parliament as a further way of increasing political representation in Iraqi political institutions before the holding of elections, F. whereas the political and security situation in Iraq remains unstable, with numerous deaths and injuries, including among the personnel of international institutions, G. seriously alarmed at the indiscriminate taking of hostages and the barbaric executions, H. having regard to the recent despicable kidnapping of women engaged in humanitarian work, I. whereas under the present circumstances the United Nations does not have the necessary conditions for assuming the key role it should play in the democratisation process, J. whereas the highly critical humanitarian situation is partly due to the destruction of the country's basic infrastructure, in particular the energy and water supply, sanitation and health care, K. whereas the social situation also remains critical because of high unemployment and the population’s almost total dependence on food supplies, L. convinced that allegations of human rights violations and war crimes committed during the last three decades must be investigated by the Iraqi authorities as quickly as possible and those responsible be punished, M. concerned at the worsening situation of women, in particular in the south of the country, the violation of their rights and their lack of participation in political processes, N. underlining the principle laid down in the EU Strategic Partnership with the Mediterranean and the Middle East, 1. Reaffirms the European Union’s