should proceed. Before submitting this proposal, the rapporteur or chairman of the committee responsible may request the President to suspend consideration of the item. Should Parliament decide to postpone the vote, the matter shall be deemed to be referred back to the committee responsible for reconsideration. In this case, the committee responsible shall, orally or in writing, report back to Parliament within a period decided by Parliament which may not exceed two months. If the committee responsible is unable to meet the deadline, the procedure provided for in Rule 52(4) shall be applied. Only amendments tabled by the committee responsible and seeking to reach a compromise with the Commission shall be admissible at this stage. 3. Application of paragraph 2 does not preclude a request for referral being tabled by other Members pursuant to Rule 168. A committee to which a matter has been referred back pursuant to paragraph 2 is principally required under the terms of that referral to report within the deadline given and, where appropriate, to table amendments seeking to reach a compromise with the Commission, but not to reconsider all the provisions approved by Parliament. However, within these terms of reference, in view of the suspensory effect of the referral, the committee enjoys a greater degree of freedom and may, where necessary in the interests of the compromise, propose reconsidering provisions which received a favourable vote in Parliament. In such cases, in view of the fact that the only admissible amendments from the committee are those seeking to reach a compromise, and with a view to preserving the sovereignty of the House, the report referred to in paragraph 2 must clearly state which provisions already approved would fall if the proposed amendments were adopted. Follow-up procedure Rule 54 Follow-up to Parliament's opinion 1. In the period following the adoption by Parliament of its opinion on a proposal by the Commission, the chairman and the rapporteur of the committee responsible shall monitor the progress of the proposal in the course of the procedure leading to its adoption by the Council, notably to ensure that the undertakings made by the Council or the Commission to Parliament with respect to its amendments are properly observed. 2. The committee responsible may invite the Commission and the Council to discuss the matter with it. 3. At any stage of the follow-up procedure the committee responsible may, if it deems it necessary, table a motion for a resolution under this Rule recommending that Parliament: - call upon the Commission to withdraw its proposal, or - call upon the Commission or the Council to refer the matter to Parliament once again pursuant to Rule 55, or upon the Commission to present a new proposal, or - decide to take such other action as it deems appropriate. This motion shall be placed on the draft agenda of the part-session following the decision by the committee. Rule 55 Renewed referral to Parliament Codecision procedure 1. The President shall, at the request of the committee responsible, ask the Commission to refer its proposal again to Parliament - where