data relating to the identification of an offender is personal, Member States must take the measures necessary to ensure that Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data is complied with. The offender shall be informed accordingly, when notified of the offence, of his or her rights regarding access to, rectification of and deletion of data and of the maximum legal period for which the data can be kept. Justification In view of the importance of personal data protection, it is essential that the person concerned should be made aware of his rights regarding access to, rectification of and deletion of the data on him and of the maximum legal period for which such data can be kept. Amendment 6 Proposal for a directive Recital 8 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8a) Apart from the temporary nature of their storage, data collected under this Directive should not, under any circumstances, be used for purposes beyond what is required in order to follow up road safety offences. The Commission and the Member States should accordingly ensure that the processing of personal data and the management of the Community electronic network will serve to prevent any data collected from being used for purposes other than those specifically related to road safety. Justification Safeguards should be built into the processing of personal data and the management of the Community electronic network so as to prevent any data gathered from being used for purposes other than those specifically related to road safety. Amendment 7 Proposal for a directive Recital 8 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( 8b ) As far as road safety controls are concerned, Member States should harmonise their methods so that their practices are comparable at EU level. Minim um standards on control practices should thus be developed in each Member State. Justification Road safety control practices should be harmonised between Member States in order to achieve a better coordination of policies in this area at EU level. Amendment 8 Proposal for a directive Recital 8 c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( 8c ) Technical equipment for r oad safety controls should also be harmonised in future in order to ensure the convergence of control measures between Member States. Technical harmonisation of this kind should be proposed by the Commission during the revision referred to in Article 8(a). Justification In its report on the implementation of the Directive, the Commission must make proposals with a view to standardising road safety equipment at European level. Amendment 9 Proposal for a directive Recital 8 d (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( 8d ) The European Commission and Member States should take whatever measures are necessary to inform , and raise the awareness of , E U citizens as regards the implementation of this Directive. Appropriate information on the consequences of a failure to comply with road safety