Answer given by Ms Damanaki on behalf of the Commission (5 January 2011) The Commission shares the concerns expressed by the Honourable Member in his questions about research and experimentation on aquaculture especially on local species and in the monitoring the state of live marine resources. Research and development in the field of fisheries and aquaculture is funded mainly through the seventh framework programme for Research and Technological Development (FP7), theme 2 on ‘Food, Agriculture and Fisheries and Biotechnologies’. FP7 seeks to promote through dedicated calls for proposals the necessary knowledge base for the sustainable management of Europe’s fisheries as well as for the sustainable and competitive development of aquaculture. In the area of aquaculture, FP7 finances, among others, research on disease prevention, fish nutrition, selective breeding, fish welfare, biological potential for new candidate species, safety and quality of aquaculture products, and environmental protection. If the research undertaken by the Department of Oceanography and Fisheries fits into the priorities of FP7, it may well participate in the calls for application. Such calls are published annually in the Cordis site at: http://cordis.europa.eu/fp7/dc/index.cfm. As regard EU funding, the programme ‘Açores — Proconvergência 2007‑13’, co-financed by the European Fund for Regional Development (ERDF) allows to fund infrastructure, equipment and laboratory facilities needed for research and technological development in areas relevant for the economy of the island, including for oceanography and fisheries. Applications for funding have to comply with the specific rules and criteria of the programme. Detailed information and contact details of the managing authority responsible for the management of applications can be found on the following Internet site: http://www.proconvergencia.azores.gov.pt/programa.html Managing authority Gestor do PROCOVERGÊNCIA Direcção Regional do Planeamento e Fundos Estruturais — DRPFE Caminho do Meio, 58 — São Carlos P-9701-853 Angra do Heroísmo Phone: +351-295206380 Fax: +351- 295206381332 E-mail: proconvergencia@azores.gov.pt Concerning the monitoring of the state of live marine resources, the EU co-finances the collection and management of biological, technical, environmental and socioeconomic fisheries data in the framework of multi-annual national programmes Council Regulation (EC) No 199/2008 of 25 February 2008 concerning the establishment of a Community framework for the collection, management and use of data in the fisheries sector and support for scientific advice regarding the common fisheries policy. established under the Data Collection Framework. The Portuguese programme covers the collection of such data, including large pelagic species, not only for the mainland fisheries but also for the autonomous regions of Madeira and Azores. The total costs of the Portuguese National programme in 2010 amount to EUR 3 476 674 of which 50 % is EU assistance.