Briefing: Strasbourg - 3 - 6 July 2006 2006-06-30 - 10:47 Finnish Prime Minister Matti VANHANEN launches his country's six-month Presidency of the EU on Wednesday. Also on Wednesday, MEPs will debate the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners. On Tuesday, Parliament will debate and vote on the €308 billion Structural Funds package for 2007-2013. On Tuesday at 9am, statements will be made on 70th anniversary of the state coup in Spain and the condemnation of the Franco regime. MEPs will also debate the Equitable Life crisis on Monday. Thursday sees the House tackling the issues of fair trade and immigration. Monday 3 July 2006 The last plenary session before the summer break starts with a debate on the EU's own resources (revenue). MEPs are demanding a greater role in the 2009 planned review. Diana WALLIS (ALDE, UK) will be tabling an interim report into the crisis of the Equitable Life Assurance Society which includes a request for a 3-month extension to its mandate to enable it to study the report by the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman due for publication in November. Caroline LUCAS (Greens/EFA, UK) will be presenting her own-initiative report on reducing the climate change impact of aviation which fully endorses the Commission's intention to pursue the introduction of kerosene taxes, and urges it to begin immediately by requiring a tax on all domestic and intra-EU flights. Parliament will also debate two conciliation agreements: one on more transparency for an environmentally-friendly Europe which means Europe's citizens will in future have easier access to information on the environment and be able to play a more active role in EU decisions in this area. The second conciliation agreement is on batteries which aims to protect nature and rubbish dumps from the often toxic substances contained in the tons of batteries utilised annually . In future waste batteries will have to be collected and recycled. Tuesday 4 July 2006 On Tuesday, the plenary session starts with European Parliament President Josep BORRELL and the political group leaders making statements on the " condemnation of the Franco Regime on the 70th anniversary of the state coup ." MEPs then turn their attention to the EU cohesion policy and Structural Funds 2007-2013 . If approved, around €308 billion - or 35.7 per cent of the total EU budget - will be available to spend, on time, from 1 January 2007. On Tuesday at 3pm, is a debate with resolution on the economic and social consequences of the restructuring of businesses in Europe. Wednesday 5 July 2006 At 9am, Finnish Prime Minister Matti VANHANEN will present the priorities of the Finnish Presidency to the European Parliament . MEPs will then debate these priorities with the participation of Commission President José Manuel BARROSO . At 3pm, there will be Commission and Council statements, with a resolution, on the surveillance of bank data transfers by the American secret services. Thereafter, Wednesday afternoon is dedicated to the presumed use of European countries by the CIA for the transportation and illegal detention