as to facilitate the establishment of small- and micro-sized enterprises. The Commission will ensure that funds allocated through the financial instruments are made available to the recipient SMEs without unnecessary delays. (Amendment 46) Article 2(2e) (new) 2e. The programme will give priority to women and young entrepreneurs and the craft sector. (Amendment 47) Article 3(1) 1. Measures for the implementation, under this programme, of the objectives listed in Article 2 will be adopted in accordance with the provisions set out in Article 4. 1. Measures for the implementation, under this programme, of the objectives listed in Article 2 will be adopted in accordance with the provisions set out in Article 4 , after consulting organisations representing SMEs, micro-enterprises and craft enterprises. (Amendment 48) Article 3(2) 2. With reference to the European Statistical System, statistical work and analysis for the implementation of the programme and the dissemination of the results of activities will be undertaken by the Commission, under its own responsibility. Deleted (Amendment 49) Article 4 1. The Commission will be assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the Member States and chaired by a representative of the Commission . 1. The Commission will be assisted by an advisory committee as referred to in Article 3 of Decision 1999/468/EC, having regard to Articles 7 and 8 thereof . 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, the management procedure laid down in Article 4 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, in compliance with Article 7(3) thereof. Deleted. 3. The period provided for in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be three months. Deleted. 4. Representatives of the candidate countries that participate in the Multiannual Programme, in accordance with the agreed procedures, will be observers to the committee. 4. Representatives of the EEA, the candidate countries that participate in the Multiannual Programme, in accordance with the agreed procedures, and technical experts from SMEs will be observers to the committee. (Amendment 50) Article 5(2) 2. The Commission will submit to the European Parliament and the Council, no later than the end of December 2004, an evaluation report on the implementation of the programme. This report will consider whether the objectives of the programme have been achieved It will include an evaluation of cost-effectiveness and an assessment, based on performance indicators, of whether objectives have been reached. 2. The Commission will submit to the European Parliament and the Council, no later than the end of December 2004, an evaluation report on the implementation of the programme. This report will among other things consider whether the objectives of the programme have been achieved , in terms of concrete results in creating a better enterprise environment and not in terms of budget spent. (Amendment 51) Article 5(2a) (new) 2a. In accordance with the guidelines laid down in the European Charter for Small Enterprises, the Commission shall submit to the Council an assessment report on the implementation of the multiannual programme in the context of the Charter before each Spring summit. The report shall be forwarded to Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee. (Amendment 52) Article 5(2b)