funding; – updating the plan and verifying its execution; – organising the technical work of research and development, validation and study, to be carried out under its authority; – ensuring the supervision of activities related to the development of common products duly identified in 'the plan' and if necessary, to organise specific invitations to tender;" Article 2 deals with the legal status of the Joint Undertaking, Article 3 with its statutes, Article 4 with sources of funding and Article 5 with comitology. Article 6 contains an assessment clause and Article 7 is concerned with entry into force. The Annex sets out the Joint Undertaking's statutes. Conclusion The assessment made by the rapporteur for the Industry Committee and the draftsman for the Transport Committee appears to be based on a misunderstanding. It is clear from the recitals and Article 1(2) that the aim of the proposal is not to ensure the "modernisation of the European air traffic management system", although it will be instrumental to that aim, but to set up a Joint Undertaking responsible for "federating research and development efforts in the Community". This is clear from Article 1(2) of the proposal and from the Joint Undertaking's tasks as set out therein (see above). This also emerges from the recitals. Whereas recitals (1) to (11) provide the background to SESAR and set out its aims and the clarification that there should be no increase in air users' contribution to R&D, they are not reflected in substantive provisions. In contrast, the subsequent provisions make it clear that the objectives and purpose of the Joint Undertaking are to ensure the coordinated management of the funds assigned to the SESAR project during the implementation phase (recital (12)), to manage a public research programme of European interest (recital (13)), to enable progress to be made in the development of air traffic control technologies (recital (15)) and to organise and coordinate the SESAR project by combining public and private sector funding and using external technical resources, provided by its members, and in particular Eurocontrol’s experience (recital (16), which is described as the Joint Undertaking's "main task". Although it is undeniable that the Joint Undertaking is desirable to "ensure the modernisation of the European air traffic management system", that is not the immediate aim of the proposed regulation to establish that Joint Undertaking. It may be contrasted with Regulation No 551/2004, referred to in the letter from the Chairman of the Industry Committee, which had as its objective and purpose the organisation and use of air space. The main object of the proposal, within the meaning of the case-law, consists of establishing a joint undertaking for the efficient execution of Community research and technological development (see, inter alia , recital (9)), nothing more or less. Consequently, the only legal basis possible is Article 171 ( The Community may set up joint undertakings or any other structure necessary for the efficient execution of Community research, technological development and demonstration programmes. ), since this is the only provision of the EC Treaty that provides for the setting up of joint