Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (11 November 2009) Mr E. Davignon, European Coordinator for Priority Project 3 [High-speed railway axis of south-west Europe], has transmitted his fourth and last annual activity report to the Commission at the end of his mandate this summer 2009. The report describes in detail the status of the implementation of Priority Project 3, thereby greatly improving the transparency of the progress along this project. The Commission can subscribe to the analysis in this report, which actually states that the project is being delayed in the implementation of the Atlantic branch. As to the first question asked by the Honourable Member, the Commission can reassure on the French determination to complete the abovementioned Atlantic branch, since the following positive actions were undertaken by France: — the projects has been included in the framework plan of priority actions for sustainable development named ‘Grenelle de l'environnement’, endorsed by the French Parliament with an almost unanimous consent; — the Tours-Bordeaux lot, to be implemented through a Public Private Partnership, is well on track; the contract signature is expected by mid‑2010 and the lot should be fully operational within 2016; — the most important bottleneck in Bordeaux hub will be removed in may 2010; — the Bordeaux — Dax and Dax — Bayonne/ES lots were merged, and so were the two preliminary steps of feasibility studies and preliminary project, thus saving approximately 18 months. On the actions undertaken by the Commission, the appointment of a European coordinator allows to closely follow the Project, urging when necessary Member States to speed up the implementation. On 22 July 2009, the Commission nominated Prof. Carlo Secchi as new European Coordinator for this Project. Prof. Secchi has already taken up contact with the governments of the three Member States involved and is actively pursuing his mandate. As a consequence of the problems encountered in the project development, the Commission has recently asked the two Member States involved to enhance the coordination between them, extending it to the whole project, with the full involvement of European coordinator. Both France and Spain have agreed to this proposal that should be translated into action within the end of the 2009.