Question for written answer E-001869/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Sergio Berlato (PPE) (3 March 2011) Subject: International Day Against infibulation and violence against women The World Health Organisation has estimated that 140 million women worldwide have been subjected to the practice of female genital mutilation (FGM) and that each year approximately 3 million girls are at risk. The problem is so severe and widespread that in 2003, the UN declared 6 February to be the International Day against infibulation and FGM. According to the statement on female genital mutilation issued in February 2008 by United Nations agencies, every year some 180000 migrant women in Europe undergo, or are at risk of undergoing, female genital mutilation. The practice of FGM is discriminatory and infringes the right of women and girls to health and equal opportunities. In addition, there is scientific evidence that female genital mutilation has extremely serious physical and psychological consequences, both immediately (i.e. the risk of infection and haemorrages that are sometimes fatal) and in the long term (cysts and the risk of both mother and unborn child dying in childbirth). In the European Parliament resolution of 24 March 2009 on combating female genital mutilation in the EU, the Commission and Member States were asked to draw up an overall strategy and action plans aimed at banishing FGM from the EU. In light of the above, can the Commission answer the following questions: 1. Have the health authorities and/or doctors drawn up a plan concerning regular check-ups on women and girls who have been granted asylum in the European Union because of the threat of FGM, in order to protect them from any threat of FGM actually being carried out? 2. Can the Commission specify what action has been taken to establish a ‘European health protocol’ for monitoring purposes and an FGM data bank, which would be useful from a statistical point of view and for information campaigns targeted at the immigrant communities concerned?