Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (30 March 2011) 1. As regards the first question of the Honourable Member, the Commission would like to precise that there are no discussions held at EU level on the introduction of uniform quality controls for cosmetic surgery. However, the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) is currently elaborating, within CEN/TC 403 ‘Project Committee — Aesthetic surgery services’, European Standards for aesthetic surgery services. European Standards are based on a consensus between the 31 CEN member countries, including all 27 EU Member States, channelled through their national standards bodies. A European Standard automatically becomes a national standard in the 31 member countries. 2. In as far as the second question is concerned, cosmetic surgery has not been discussed with Member States in respect of mutual recognition of professional qualifications. In principle, each Member State is competent to determine which medical specialities exist in its country, thus also whether cosmetic surgery is a specialty, what its training conditions are and which medical specialists can exercise the activities associated with cosmetic surgery. Directive 2005/36/EC Directive 2005/36/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, OJ L 255, 30.9.2005. on the recognition of professional qualifications constitutes the European legal framework for the recognition of professional qualifications obtained by EU citizens in another Member State. It also contains harmonised minimum training requirements for certain specialist doctors; however, not for cosmetic surgeons. Whilst plastic surgery is one out of the 52 specialities listed in Annex V, 5.1.3 of Directive 2005/36/EC and thus benefits from automatic recognition, cosmetic surgery is not listed in that Annex. Doctors who received training in the area of cosmetic surgery can therefore not benefit from automatic recognition. Instead, the general rules on recognition of professional qualifications apply. A new specialty of cosmetic surgery could only be inserted into Annex V if it already existed in two fifths of the Member States and the latter support such insertion through comitology by qualified majority. Such measure would also need to clarify the necessary minimum training duration See Article 26(2) of Directive 2005/36/EC. . Such insertion would, however, have limited effects: it would not oblige Member States to create the specialty of cosmetic surgery at national level. Even if they decided to do so, they would not be obliged to open their national titles towards automatic recognition (by inserting it into Annex V). Since the entry into force of Directive 2005/36/EC, the Commission has not received a request to insert a new medical specialty such as cosmetic surgery into its Annex V, 5.1.3.