and the development and connection of renewable energy resources, so as to reduce the cost of energy to the consumer and contribute to the diversification of energy sources; - facilitating the development and reducing the isolation of the less-favoured regions and the islands of the Community, thereby helping to strengthen economic and social cohesion; ( 2 ) Article 4 is replaced by the following: Article 4 Priorities The priorities for action by the Community on trans-European energy networks, taking account of the necessity to secure a sustainable development, shall be as follows: a) adapting and developing the energy networks so as to support the operation of the internal energy market, and in particular solving the problems of trans-frontier and other bottlenecks, congestion and missing links, and taking account of the new needs arising from the liberalisation of the markets for electricity and natural gas; b) the connection of renewable energy production; c) the establishment of energy networks in insular, isolated, peripheral and ultra-peripheral regions while promoting the diversification of energy sources and the use of renewable energy sources, together with the connection of those networks, where necessary; d) interoperability of electricity networks within the European Union with those of candidate countries and of other countries in Europe and the Mediterranean and Black Sea basins; e) the development of gas networks in order to meet the Community's demand for natural gas, the control of its gas supply systems and the diversification of natural gas sources and supply routes. ( 3 ) Article 6 is amended as follows : (a) Paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: 2. The projects of common interest shall be as set out in Annex II. 3. Any modification which changes the description of a project as it appears in Annex II or the indicative specifications contained in Annex III shall be decided upon in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty. (b) Paragraph 4 is deleted. (c) Paragraph 8 is replaced by the following: 8. The evaluation of the economic viability referred to in the third indent of paragraph 1 shall be based upon a cost-benefit analysis which shall take account of all costs and benefits, including those in the medium and/or long term, in connection with environmental aspects, security of supply and the contribution to economic and social cohesion. Such an evaluation is a precondition for projects to be identified as projects of common interest. ( 4 ) A new Article 6a is inserted as follows: Article 6a Priority axes of European interest 1. Priority shall be given to network developments which are compatible with sustainable development and which meet the following criteria: a) they must have a significant impact on the competitive operation of the internal market; and/or b) they must strengthen security of supply in the Community. The list of priority axes which meet these criteria shall be as set out in Annex I. All modifications to that Annex shall be decided upon in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty. 2. Projects