state". Speaking for the current holders of the Presidency of the Union, Slovene Minister Dimitrij Rupel for the Council said that "the EU needs Serbia and Serbia needs the EU"; "The time has come for true dialogue between the Serbs and the Albanians in Kosovo, between Serbia and Kosovo, between Serbia and the EU". Also in the debate Europe's enlargement Commissioner Olli Rehn said "this is a difficult moment for Serbia. However, time has come to turn the page on the past"; "We condemn the use of violence, and call on all leaders and people of the region to remain calm and maintain peace and stability"; He also thanked the EP for supporting the EU perspective of the Western Balkans. Outside the plenary, the Foreign Affairs Committee also focused on Kosovo. In a specially convened meeting, it played host to the Foreign Minister of Serbia, Vuk Jeremić, who spoke in frank terms about his government's reaction to the declaration of independence and the role played by wider Europe. Read our report on the visit at the link below. Other debates The House also debated a report by Italian Member Monica Frassoni (Greens/EFA) on monitoring the application of Community law, dealing with infringement procedures, to be voted on Thursday. Late in the evening, the Chamber debated a report by French Socialist MEP Françoise Castex on the demographic future of Europe. The report deals with the European demographic decline and suggests several measures to deal with this problem. Vote on Thursday. (See our interview with Françoise Castex on her report via the link below). To watch the plenary live and to get more information on the debates and votes, click on the links below. Press service: results of votes Ratify the Lisbon Treaty this year says the European Parliament Kosovo: a special case say MEPs Vuk Jeremic at EP following Kosovo's independence declaration: "I am ashamed as a European" As Europe ages - how can we tackle its demographic decline? Thursday in plenary: Regional policy, Gaza, Human Rights Thursday in plenary: Regional policy, Gaza, Human Rights Two reports on cohesion policy and urban and regional planning were discussed and adopted by the plenary on Thursday. MEPs also looked at human rights in Belarus, North Eastern Congo, and East Timor. The plenary voted on a number of issues that had been debated previously, including Gaza, the demographic future of the EU and the “goods package” - aimed at improving the cross-border sale of a wide range of products. Thursday morning was dominated by a debate about "cohesion policy," which aims to reduce disparities between EU countries. French EPP-ED MEP Ambroise Guellec's report on the European Commission's 4th Report on Economic and Social Cohesion, notes that "Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland, have caught up remarkably well, recording impressive growth rates during the period 2000-2006.” Decreases in disparities between countries may mask wider regional gaps The report, adopted by plenary, also notes high rates of growth in the new Member States, but said they will catch up fully "only in the medium or long term…because of the