for the entry into operation of SIS II. This will be confirmed as a binding global schedule preferably by the end of July 2010 and at the latest at the Council meeting on 7-8 October 2010. 4. The report on the financial and contractual aspects of SIS II Report on the financial and contractual aspects of developing the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), Brussels, 12.4.2010, SEC(2010) 436 final. presented by the Commission on 12 April 2010 includes a preliminary cost indication on the basis of the current system specifications. These costs may have to be revised once the revised requirements referred to in Point 3 above (for example the increase in the system's capacity following the enlargement of the Schengen area) are finalised and agreed together with Member States. The new cost analysis will be provided within the same framework quoted under Point 3 above. 5. The failed SIS II operational system tests in late 2008 revealed a number of technical problems in the central system, which were subsequently addressed in what was called the Analysis and Repair Period in the spring of 2009. The comparative technical report prepared jointly by the Presidency and the Commission and submitted to the JHA Council of 4-5 June 2009, noted the solutions found to the outstanding issues and concluded that the technical solution was feasible for fulfilling the SIS II objectives. On this basis, the Council Conclusions of 4-5 June 2009 provided that the development of SIS II should continue on the basis of the current project, subject to two ‘milestone’ tests The aim of the milestone tests laid down in the Annex to the 4-5 June 2009 Council Conclusions is to prove the stability, reliability and performance of the central system and the proper functioning of vital core functionalities such as data consistency and reliable message transfer. . The overall objective of the first Milestone was precisely to give assurances that the technical solution was sufficiently stable and robust to sustain the further development of the system towards go-live. This Milestone 1 test has now been successfully passed, which provides the necessary technical basis for the project's continuation. 6. The Commission has already imposed penalties amounting to EUR 390.000 on the main development contractor for failure to complete the SIS II operational system tests in late 2008. Various organisational adaptations have been put in place in the management of SIS II for improved monitoring of the contractors' activities. The Commission would not hesitate to impose further penalties on its contractors in case of underperformance or non-compliance with the contract. 7. The legal basis (namely the Schengen Convention) for the existing SIS does not foresee for the exchange of biometric data (such as fingerprints or photographs). Moreover, the SISNET network supporting the SIS is dimensioned for the exchange of alphanumerical and not of binary data (biometrics). A biometric component, known as BMS (Biometric Matching System) is currently under development by the European Commission and will be fully integrated with SIS II. It will notably allow complying with Article 20 of Regulation 1987/2006 on