P6_TA(2008)0232 Natural disaster in China B6-0242 , 0250 , 0251 , 0252 , 0253 and 0270/2008 European Parliament resolution of 22 May 2008 on the natural disaster in China The European Parliament , – having regard to the conclusions of the extraordinary meeting of the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 13 May 2008 and the statement by the Commission on the situation in Sichuan Province in China, – having regard to Rule 103(4) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas a severe earthquake with a magnitude of 7.8 on the Richter scale struck southwest China on 12 May 2008, B. whereas the earthquake killed tens of thousands of people, especially in Sichuan Province, and many people are still missing, C. whereas the geographical conditions in Sichuan Province render the rescue work difficult, D. whereas the Chinese Government has deployed exceptional emergency resources and personnel, including soldiers and medical personnel, who are working in the affected area, E. whereas the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies has issued an emergency appeal for aid, 1. Expresses its sincere condolences to and solidarity with the people of China and the numerous victims; expresses its sorrow for all those who are suffering the consequences of the earthquake; 2. Welcomes the prompt response to the disaster by the Chinese authorities by means of their emergency operation; 3. Notes with appreciation China's readiness to accept foreign assistance; calls on the Chinese government to facilitate the work of humanitarian relief and volunteer organisations in distributing aid, and to ensure access to aid for all those in need; 4. Urges the Council and Commission to provide emergency aid, technical assistance and reconstruction aid to the affected area; 5. Emphasises the urgency of supplying primary emergency humanitarian aid through the ECHO programme, backed by a large and adequate budget; notes the arrival of the Commission's humanitarian aid expert in Chengdu to assess needs; 6. Supports the contribution which the Member States are making through the 'Civil Protection Mechanism', coordinated by the Commission, as well as other contributions to the relief efforts by the international community; 7. Welcomes the fact that the Chinese and foreign media are being allowed to provide detailed and accurate information on the disaster; 8. Underlines the importance of good governance in preventing and preparing for possible natural disasters; calls for development of technology for a comprehensive and effective early warning system to prepare populations to cope with earthquakes and other natural disasters; 9. Welcomes the international community's efforts to make available their best practice in civil emergency and disaster relief work in order to help China and its people who have been affected by the earthquake; calls on the organisations involved to provide enough financial aid for the accomplishment of the commitments; 10. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments of the Member States and the government of China.