party concerned has been informed before that date that the transfer has been effected . Justification The time at which a transfer of shares becomes effective should be clearly laid down in the regulation. Instead of being listed under the arrangement proposed by the Commission, shareholders should, for reasons of legal certainty, be entered in the register. Amendment 41 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 1 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. A shareholder shall have the right to withdraw from the SPE if the activities of the SPE are being or have been conducted in a manner which causes serious harm to the interests of the shareholder as a result of one or more of the following events: 1. A shareholder shall have the right to withdraw from the SPE if the activities of the SPE are being or have been conducted in a manner which causes serious harm to the interests of the shareholder as a result , inter alia, of one or more of the following events: Justification It should be clear that the enumeration of events is not exhaustive. Amendment 42 Proposal for a regulation Article 19 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The capital of the SPE shall be fully subscribed. 2. The capital of the SPE shall be fully subscribed. Shares issued for cash shall be paid up, at the time of subscription, at a rate of not less than 25 % of their nominal value. The remainder shall be paid up in one or more instalments by decision of the management or administrative board within not more than five years of registration of the SPE. Justification The purpose of the SPE legal form is to enable SMEs to be set up more easily within the EU and hence benefit to the full from the single market. The minimum capital level and the paying-up arrangements can facilitate SME start-ups, especially in Member States where, given the standard of living, a large sum would be hard to raise. Amendment 43 Proposal for a regulation Article 19 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The shares of the SPE do not need to be fully paid on issue. 3. The minimum capital of the SPE specified in paragraph 4 must be fully paid up by means of shares issued for cash. Before the SPE is registered, the amount in question must, as must be proven by the appropriate evidence, be paid into an account which the management body shall be free to use for the benefit of the SPE. Justification See Amendment to Article 19(4). Amendment 44 Proposal for a regulation Article 19 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 1. 4. The capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 1 , provided that the articles of association of the SPE require that the management body sign a solvency statement as provided for in Article 21. Where the articles of