provisions; second, to identify and analyze the matching implementing provisions in UK law to ascertain if they fulfil the quality requirements of the directive; third, to evaluate the performance of the regulator taking into account the thresholds, benchmarks and requirements that have been set in those matching implementing provisions as well as in the Directive. To this end, the main sources of evidence, other than the directive itself and the UK provisions, will be the information received from the European Commission, the implementation study undertaken by the Wilde Sapte firm, the oral evidence obtained during the EQUI hearings and any other written evidence contained in the list of official written evidence. II.1. Analysis of transposition in detail in light of the evidence In order to understand the 3LD, it is pertinent to outline its structure, which falls into four parts: 1. Definition and scope; 2. The taking up of the business of life assurance; 3. Conditions governing the business of life assurance, which include: principles and methods of financial supervision, rules relating to technical provisions, to the solvency margin and to the guarantee fund, rules relating to contract law and conditions of assurance; 4. Provisions relating to the right of establishment and freedom to provide services. The following 16 articles (and 1 annex) of the 3LD have been selected on account of their relevance to this inquiry: § Articles 8, 9, 10, 12, 13 and 15: financial supervision; § Articles 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22: technical provisions; § Article 25: solvency margin; § Articles 28, 29, 30 and 31: conduct of business rules; § Annex II: information for policyholders. The key articles for the investigation (8, 10, 18, 21, 25, 28 and 31) are dealt with first. As far as UK law is concerned, the UK notified the Commission of its implementation of the 3LD by letter dated 29 June 1994. The UK letter specified that the following relevant statutory instruments giving effect to the Directive would enter into force on 1 July 1994, the deadline laid down in the Directive: 1. The Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations 1994, which amended relevant sections of the Insurance Companies Act (ICA) 1982 and the Financial Services Act 1986 with a view to introducing the principle of home country control for direct insurance as provided by the 3LD and the Non-Life Directives; 2. The Insurance Companies Regulations 1994, which implemented the 3LD’s rules on technical provisions, matching and localisation of assets, solvency margin and guarantee funds; 3. The Insurance Companies (Accounts and Statements) (Amendment) Regulations 1994, which implemented the 3LD's rules relating to the form and contents of the annual returns, amending the Insurance Companies (Accounts and Statements) Regulations 1983. According to official records, the UK respected the deadline for entry into force and correctly notified the Commission, providing copies of the implementing legislation. As can be seen from the above, and in contrast to the consolidated approach followed by other Member States, the UK opted for a piecemeal and indirect transposition, transposing the Directive by adopting various statutory instruments, which introduced amendments