45 inserted Schedule 2F into the ICA 1982. The Secretary of State has residual power to impose requirements for the protection of policyholders, which includes the right to take “any action as appears to him to be appropriate”. In principle, the Secretary of State can only exercise this power over UK or non-EC companies. However, in certain circumstances it can exercise this power over EC companies operating on UK territory. The conditions for the exercise of this power over EC companies are spelled out in paragraph 15 of Schedule 2F to the Act. In line with the Directive, those conditions establish that the Secretary of State can exercise those powers over EC companies only if the supervisory authority of the company’s home Member State has so requested. Paragraph 16 of Schedule 2F prescribes what the Secretary of State can do when an EC company fails to comply with any provision of law applicable to its insurance activities in the UK . According to this paragraph, the first step is to notify the supervisory authority in the home Member State (16(2)). If the company persists in contravening the provision in question, paragraph 16(3) allows the Secretary of State, after informing the supervisory authority of the home Member State , to direct the company to cease carrying on insurance business or providing insurance. Finally, paragraph 16(4) allows the Secretary of State to direct the company to cease carrying on insurance business even without informing the supervisory authority of the home Member State , if he considers such measures should be taken as a matter of urgency. The Secretary of State must always inform the company in writing of the reasons for adopting such a measure. The provisions that expand the Secretary of State’s supervisory power over the entire business (within the Community) of those companies with a head office in the UK are included in the Insurance Companies (Amendment) Regulations 1994. Regulation 4 amends section 15 of the ICA 1982, including “all UK companies which carry on business in a Member State other than the United Kingdom ”. The scope of competence of the UK supervisory authorities over insurance undertakings whose head office is in the UK is broad enough, in line with the requirements of the Directive. The Secretary of State has powers to verify the assurance undertaking’s state of solvency, the establishment of technical provisions and the assets covering them with respect to the assurance undertaking’s entire business. The requirement for assurance undertakings to have “sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms” has been transposed into domestic legislation by Regulation 5 of the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations 1994, which amends section 5 of the ICA 1982 on the conditions to be met by the assurance undertaking to obtain an authorisation to operate. Regulation 5 inserts sub section (1A) into section 5 of the Act, which prevents the Secretary of State from issuing an authorisation when it appears to him that the applicant does not or will not fulfil the criteria of “sound and prudent management”. The Regulation