Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (30 January 2007) Under the financial framework 2007‑13, the Commission put forward proposals for specific funds in the immigration and asylum field, including the European Fund for the Integration of third‑country nationals COM(2005)123 final. with a financial envelope of EUR 825 million for the period 2007‑13. The general objective of the Integration Fund (applicable as of 1 January 2007) is to support the efforts of Member States to enable third‑country nationals to fulfil the conditions of residence and to facilitate their integration into European societies, in accordance with the common basic principles on integration adopted by the Council in November 2004 and in complementarity with the European Social Fund (ESF). Particular consideration will also be given to projects concerning the integration of unaccompanied minors. In terms of the co-financing of concrete actions supporting the integration process of third‑country nationals in Member States, the Integration Fund is targeted primarily at actions relating to newly arrived third-country nationals. This instrument is in shared management which means among other things that the selection of individual projects is with the Member States within the framework of the objectives established in the basic act and the priorities set out in the strategic guidelines of the Community. In addition, it is worth noting that the Commission is reflecting on ways of involving and assisting migrant communities (or ‘diasporas’) in the EU, to act as an engine for fostering socioeconomic development in their countries of origin, including in the context of the preparation of the future thematic programme for cooperation with third countries in the areas of migration and asylum. Furthermore, within the framework of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, and with a view to raising the visibility and importance of intercultural dialogue as a process which promotes a better living together in daily life within the EU, two calls for proposals will be published in the first half of 2007. These will aim to support concrete projects at European and national level, namely a few European‑scale emblematic actions illustrating the various approaches and dimensions of intercultural dialogue in the EU and actions at national level proposed by the bodies responsible for coordination in the Member States. Moreover, intercultural dialogue has already been given priority in a large number of EU policies and instruments, namely ‘Lifelong Learning’, ‘Culture 2007’, ‘Youth in Action’ and ‘Europe for Citizens’, in which it is integrated as a transversal priority in all programmes, including in the next round of calls for proposals. The promotion of intercultural dialogue is for instance one of the three specific objectives of the new ‘Culture 2007’ programme.