32(5)(a) of the Act d e fines the margin of solvency of an insurance company as “the excess of the value of its assets over the amount of its liabil i ties, that value and amount being determined in accordance with any applicable valuation regulations”. The Act does not stipulate the amount of the RMM nor any provision on its composition, leaving both issues to be specified by statutory instruments. In line with the Directive, the insurance company is obliged to maintain a margin of solvency at least equal to the RMM at all times and not just at the year end. The RMM of a company carrying on long-term business is the greater of: § the Minimum Guaranteed Fund (which, in the case of a mutual life insurer company, is EUR 600,000) § the Required Margin of Solvency (RMS). Composition of the solvency margin: the 3LD prescribes that the solvency margin must be represented by assets free of any foreseeable liabilities, also known as ‘explicit assets’ and, exceptionally, by ‘implicit’ or ‘intangible’ assets, provided an authorization from the competent authority is obtained. Implicit items are assets of a long-term fund which are intangible and result from the underestimation of assets or the overestimation of liabilities. Insurance Companies Regulations 1994 also differentiates between explicit and implicit items. Paragraph (3) of Regulation 22 requires that, of the assets covering a company’s RMM, at least 50% of the Guarantee Fund (or, if greater, 100% of the Minimum Guarantee Fund) be covered by ‘explicit assets’. Explicit assets are all types of assets other than implicit items, which are expressly mentioned by the Regulations. According to Paragraph (1) of Regulation 22, the Guarantee Fund is equivalent to one-third of the RMM. Therefore, the effect of Regulation 22 is that one-sixth of the RMM must be covered by explicit assets, while the remaining five-sixths of the RMM may be covered by implicit items. Insurance Companies Regulations 1994 do not include a provision that lists the explicit and implicit items the available solvency margin may consist of. However, they do include a number of regulations that prescribe how assets and liabilities must be valued. Any asset not mentioned in the valuation regulations other than cash (e.g. gold or commodities) is treated as having no value and therefore must be excluded from the calculations. Once the assets are valued in accordance with the valuation of assets regulations, each category of assets must then be compared to the admissibility limits prescribed by the regulations, which, in order to spread the risk, limit the value of each category of assets that can be taken into account to cover the company’s liabilities. The value of the assets that exceeds the liabilities that can be taken into account to meet the company’s solvency requirements is subject to further limitations, which are laid down by Regulation 23 of the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994. Regulation 23(2) allows half the amount of unpaid capital to be valued so long as a quarter of the capital is paid up (with analogous provisions for a mutual). Regulation 23(4)