by Commission Regulation (EC) No 178/2006 (OJ L 29, 2.2.2006, p. 3). , and Community legislation on the protection of workers and anyone concerned with the contained use and deliberate release of genetically modified organisms. (49) It is necessary to establish procedures for the adoption of emergency measures in situations where an approved active substance, a safener, a synergist or a plant protection product is likely to constitute a serious risk to human or animal health or the environment. (50) Member States should lay down rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this Regulation and should take the measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. (51) General civil and criminal liability in the Member States of the manufacturer and, where applicable, of the person responsible for placing the plant protection product on the market or using it should remain applicable. (52) Member States should have the possibility of recovering the costs of the procedures associated with the application of the Regulation from those seeking to place, or placing, plant protection products on the market and from those applying for the approval of active substances, safeners or synergists. (53) Member States should designate the necessary national authorities. (54) The Commission should facilitate the application of this Regulation. Therefore, it is appropriate to provide for the necessary financial resources and the possibility of amending certain provisions of the Regulation in the light of experience or of developing technical notes for guidance. (55) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. Decision as amended by Decision 2006/512/EC (OJ L 200, 22.7.2006, p. 11). . It is appropriate to adopt purely technical, administrative or urgent measures using the advisory committee procedure. (56) In particular, the Commission should be empowered to approve active substances, to renew or review their approval, to approve co-formulants, to adopt harmonised methods to determine the nature and quantity of active substances, safeners and synergists, and where appropriate of relevant impurities and co-formulants, to establish rules for resolving disagreement between Member States on the assessment of equivalence, to adopt guidelines on the organisation of compliance checks at the renewal of an authorisation, to adopt detailed rules for allowing derogations from authorisation of plant protection products for research and development, implementing measures to ensure uniform application of record keeping on production, storage and use of plant protection products, technical or other guidance documents for the implementation of this Regulation and the list of approved active substances. Since those measures are of general scope and are designed to amend non-essential elements of this Regulation or to supplement it by the addition of non-essential elements, they must be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC. (57) Certain provisions of Directive 91/414/EEC should remain applicable during the transitional period, HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Subject matter and