Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (6 October 2004) The Commission is aware of the difficulties of unemployment, poverty and education which beset citizens in the Roma community. The Cohesion Fund and Structural Funds will make a substantial contribution to the development of Member States including those with significant Roma populations over the coming years. The experience to date with the relevant Member States, which are mainly but not exclusively those that entered the Union on 1 May 2004, is that they have made efforts to take account of the disadvantaged position of people in the Roma community. In drafting the Structural Funds programmes for the period 2004-2006, the Commission and the new Member States have made funding available to address the issues raised by the Honourable Member. A cross-cutting theme for Roma was, for example, agreed in Slovakia for its Community Support Framework (CSF). A Roma Working Group has also been established by the CSF Monitoring Committee, which will guide and monitor structural funding to Roma in Slovakia. Roma communities are concentrated not only in certain Member States but in particular regions and areas within the Member States concerned. The Commission has sought to support the efforts of the Member States concerned to target Community funding towards the Roma. The availability of data should not be overrated. Although the overall priorities for funding are agreed between the Commission and the Member States concerned, the lead in implementation is with the Member States. The de-centralised management structure of the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds means that public authorities at national, regional and local levels take on the responsibility of managing and disbursing Community funds. The Commission welcomes the setting up of the ‘European Forum for Roma and Travellers’ and encourages the Forum to work together with national and regional authorities to develop quality projects that can be co-financed with Structural Funds. This applies to funds under the objectives 1, 2 and 3, but also under the Community Initiative Interreg.