values and evaluating the possible need for additional flexibilities, exemptions or later introduction dates for certain types of equipment or engines, – evaluate the need to use a separate test procedure for railway applications, – evaluate the need to use a separate test procedure for railway applications, – evaluate the need to amend the scope of the Directive according to the last developments in the railway transport and interoperability legislative framework in order to cover, in the most effective way, all railway applications. delete – consider tightening the limit values for emissions of gaseous pollutants in the light of environmental needs and technological developments in after-treatment equipment for NOx reduction in the on-road sector, delete – consider the need to introduce a further set of limit values for engines to be used in inland waterway vessels, – evaluate the available technology in order to confirm the mandatory particulate value for internal waterway vessels in Stage IV in a report to the European Parliament and the Council to which it shall also attach relevant proposals, where appropriate. In doing so, the Commission shall take particular account of the effect of the available fuel qualities. – consider the need to introduce emission limit values for engines below 19 kW and above 560 kW, – consider the need to introduce emission limit values for engines below 19 kW and further limit values for engines above 560 kW , and submit, where appropriate proposals to the European Parliament and the Council. and submit, where appropriate proposals to the European Parliament and the Council. – submit provisions for reviewing the operability of the emission-related devices during the normal life of the vehicle or engine and – detailed rules to prevent 'cycle beating'. Justification Railway applications are already included. On-road vehicles have no place in this directive. A further stage should be laid down at the present time for internal waterway vessels. In addition, the Commission should ensure the durability of the emission-reducing devices and lay down rules to preclude cycle beating. Amendment 23 ARTICLE 2a (new) Article 2a The Commission shall review the test cycle to be used for rail vehicles by no later than 31 December 2004 and shall submit proposals where appropriate. Justification There should be an assessment of whether different test procedures are required for railway applications with large and small engines. While for small engines, which are normally derived from other mobile machinery, the typical C1 procedure would seem appropriate, ISO 8178-4 test cycle F may be more appropriate for larger engines. Amendment 24 ARTICLE 2b (new) Article 2b The Commission shall report by 31 December 2004 on the need to establish other limit values or test procedures for locomotive engines with a volume of more than 5 litres per cylinder. Justification Large rail engines with a volume of more than 5 litres per cylinder exhibit different operational behaviour and different standards might therefore be appropriate. Amendment 25 ARTICLE 2c (new) Article 2c The Commission shall explore the possibility of an agreement between the EU and the Central Commission for Navigation on the