use to identify the Article 87(3)(c) of the Treaty regions; reminds Member States that, in the process of defining Article 87(3)(c) regions at national level, local and regional governments should be consulted; 13. Asks the Commission to ensure that the competent authorities of the regions are allowed to apply the partnership principle to prioritise investment projects of particular interest to their regions, as stated in the draft Regional Aid Guidelines; 14. Welcomes the Commission's intention to apply an additional safety net in order to ensure that no Member State loses more than 50% of the population coverage during the period 2000-2006, but recommends that the Commission modify the safety net by lowering the 50% threshold, in order to avoid a significant reduction in the population coverage in the period 2007-2013; 15. Calls, in order to avoid too severe a reduction in the population coverage, for a transitional system for areas within the meaning of Article 87(3)(c) of the Treaty similar to the transitional mechanism set up for regions eligible under Article 87(3)(a); 16. Calls on the Commission to introduce a transitional aid-reduction period for current Article 87(3)(c) regions which, under the new proposal, would become unassisted regions; 17. Express its satisfaction with the Commission's proposal to allow Member States to use regional State aid to address particular economic problems, including localised regional disparities below the NUTS III level, evidenced by lower Gross Domestic Product (GDP), higher unemployment or other recognized economic indicators, by giving them the possibility of granting State aid also to large companies; welcomes in this context the application of relevant bonuses for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); 18. Emphasises, however, the usefulness of other indicators allowing for better evaluation of the development difficulties experienced by certain regions; 19. Emphasises in this connection the importance of ensuring a strong synergy between any future globalisation fund designed to address particular economic problems caused by restructuring, and the Regional Aid Guidelines; 20. Understands that adequate operating aid for regions suffering from structural handicaps is an appropriate way to supplement investment aid in those regions and welcomes the Commission's desire to allow Member States flexibility in this area; 21. Expects the Commission to consider authorising operating aid for areas which from 2007 onwards will lose Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty status and to allow appropriate additional amounts of operating aid to regions suffering from natural, geographic or demographic disadvantages; 22. Welcomes the Commission's setting of an effective maximum aid differential for less assisted regions sharing a land border with a better assisted region and recommends that such provision should also apply to regions sharing a sea border without a lowering of aid ceilings in better assisted areas; 23. Appreciates that the Commission permits Member States to grant substantial additional amounts of regional State aid to SMEs; proposes that the increase be adjusted upwards through the setting of a single 20% figure for both small and medium-sized businesses, so as not to discourage the growth of small enterprises; 24. Believes that the Horizontal Aid Guidelines too must take due account of territorial differences, in