machinery. The legislature in the USA has also recognised this need and will shortly be publishing related proposals. Harmonisation at this point would seem rational in the context of the global market. Justification The US Environmental Protection Agency has proposed a new emission tier for the non-road sector corresponding to the emission limit values already applicable to the on-road sector. Harmonisation should also be the objective here in view of the global market and the environmental need for a reduction. Amendment 2 Recital 4a (new) (4a) On environmental grounds and in order to protect health, there is a need to insert another stage, Euro IV, after Euro III, with clearly reduced NOx and particulate values. Justification This is a necessary contribution to meeting EU air quality standards, particularly as the machinery is mostly used compressed. Particulates, ozone precursors and NOx are particular sources of pollution. Appropriate technologies are available and are already used in HGVs and Baltic ferries, for example. Amendment 3 Recital 5 (5) A transient test procedure is needed to cover the operational conditions used by this kind of machinery under real working conditions. (5) A transient test procedure is needed to cover the operational conditions used by this kind of machinery under real working conditions. The test should therefore be carried out on an engine which is not warmed up. Justification In practice, it is not possible to assume that the engine will be warm. Machines are started up on site, which must be reflected in the test. The test should therefore be carried out on an engine at ambient temperature. Amendment 4 Recital 5a (new) (5a) Under all randomly selected load conditions, the limit values may not be exceeded by more than 50%. Justification To ensure that the limit values are not only selectively aligned but are also applicable at randomly selected test points during normal operation. Amendment 5 Recital 5b (new) (5b) Moreover, the use of defeat devices and irrational emission control strategies must be prevented. Justification Measures should be taken to prevent compliance with the limit values only during testing but not during actual operation. Amendment 6 Recital 6 (6) The proposed package of Stage III limit values should be aligned as far as possible on developments in the United States so as to offer manufacturers a global market for their engine concepts. (6) The proposed package of limit values should be aligned as far as possible on developments in the United States so as to offer manufacturers a global market for their engine concepts. Justification Applies to all stages. Amendment 7 Recital 7 (7) Emission standards should also be introduced for certain railway and marine applications to help promote them as environmentally friendly modes of transport. (7) Emission standards should also be introduced for railway and inland waterway applications to help promote them as environmentally friendly modes of transport. Justification All rail applications should be included now instead of being phased in. This will also take better account of rail as an environment-friendly form of transport. Amendment 8 Recital 7a (new) (7a) In addition, there