for a resolution: 1. Calls on the Commission to present the requisite texts and initiate procedures as soon as possible so as to enable the allocation of resources to budget line 13.03.12 - the International Fund for Ireland (IFI) - during the 2007 budgetary exercise; further calls on the Commission to clarify the legal basis for the Peace Programme and the European Union's contribution to the IFI; 2. Takes the view that the amounts entered in the preliminary draft budget (PDB) for regional policy represent the bare minimum and therefore calls for all PDB lines to be maintained or, where necessary, restored; 3. Wishes particular attention to be given in the draft budget for 2007 to small and medium-sized enterprises as well as micro-enterprises, bearing in mind their essential role in the development of the European regions; SHORT JUSTIFICATION 2007 is the opening year of the new programming period with all this implies in terms of establishing and approving national programmes, financial planning for the years ahead. It is important to stress the fact that the European Union, and Parliament in particular, has underlined time and again the need to speedily arrive at a satisfactory conclusion to the negotiations on the Inter-institutional agreement and the Financial perspective, so that Member States' programming could be undertaken and approved within a reasonable timescale thus avoiding a repetition of the delays incurred and the losses suffered by all, in 1999 First year of the programming period 1999 - 2006. It is however far from certain that, in view of the protracted negotiations on the IIA which have now thankfully come to a close, such delays can be avoided. Should that be the case, it should be stressed at this stage that Parliament has cooperated with both Council and Commission in an exemplary fashion despite the initial disappointment engendered by the difficult conclusions of the December European Council. 2007 will be a difficult year for all, with the Union struggling to re-launch its economy whilst continuing to expand and, presumably, absorb two more countries whose regions' economic and social levels are far below those of the Union as it is today. Parliament shares the view of the European Council Draft Council conclusions on the Budget guidelines for 2007 6671/06 01 March 2006. "... that the appropriations for 2007 should reflect real and well-defined needs" In your draftswoman's opinion, the only institution that has access to all the criteria necessary to establish "real and well defined needs" is the European Commission. Neither Parliament nor the Council, nor the individual Member States have the information or the tools and overview required to evaluate those needs. Consequently, in order to ensure that Council's desire which is shared by all three institutions, namely that "...the EU budget for 2007 should provide sufficient resources to implement the various policies of the EU effectively and efficiently" Draft Council conclusions on the Budget guidelines for 2007 6671/06 01 March 2006. I propose that the amounts put forward in the initial Commission proposal be maintained. Ø Structural Funds: A comparison between the 2006 and