ongoing grave, widespread and systematic human rights violations in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; 5. Calls on the government of the DPRK to ensure access of all its citizens to food and other basic necessities; 6. Calls for the government of the DPRK to immediately and permanently stop public executions; 7. Calls on the government of the DPRK to put an end to extrajudicial killings and enforced disappearances, to stop the use of torture and forced labour, to release the political prisoners and allow its citizens to travel freely in and out of the country; 8. Calls on the government of the DPRK to cooperate fully with the new UN Special Rapporteur on human rights in DPRK, Mr Marzuki Darusman, and also to allow other UN Special Rapporteurs to visit the country; 9. Calls to DPRK Government to follow up recommendations of the Report of the Working Group on Universal Periodic Review, Human Rights Council adopted on 18 March 2010. These recommendations include setting up a national human rights organisation and cooperation with UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. 10. Calls on the Commission to raise the human rights situation in DPRK and the issue of North Korean refugees in China at all EU China high levels talks and at the EU China Dialogue on Human Rights; calls on China to stop arresting and returning North Korean refugees to DPRK, to fulfil its obligations under the 1951 Refugee Convention and its 1967 Protocol, and to allow the UNHCR access to North Korean refugees to determine their status and assist their safe resettlement; 11. Calls on the European Commission to continue to support civil society organisations helping North Korean refugees and spreading free information to DPRK; 12. Calls on the European Commission to maintain existing humanitarian aid programmes and channels of communication with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea as these aid programmes are directly linked to the living conditions of the people in the DPRK; calls on the European Commission to rigorously monitor the distribution of food aid and humanitarian assistance in DPRK to meet international standards of transparency and accountability; calls on the authorities of the DPRK to ensure access to the delivered humanitarian assistance; 13. Calls on the Commission to include to the EU South Korea Free Trade Agreement clause to monitor the rights of workers from DPRK working in the Kaesong Industrial Complex in DPRK 14. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Member States, the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the Council, the Commission, the governments of the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the government of the People's Republic of China and the United Nations Secretary-General.