Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (9 February 2010) This reply concerns only the Commission. The Commission would firstly like to remind the Honourable Member that Article 27 of the Staff Regulations of officials of the European Communities stipulates that ‘recruitment shall be directed to securing for the institution the services of officials of the highest standard of abilities, efficiency and integrity, recruited on the broadest possible basis from among nationals of Member States of the Communities’. As a consequence, recruitment is based on ‘merit’ and as a rule no quota exist for separate Member States. Only in the specific context of an enlargement, special measures are taken in order to attain in a relatively short period of time an adequate representation of the new Member States amongst the staff of the institutions. In order to derogate from the above article and to allow for the organisation of competitions only open to citizens of the Member States concerned, Council regulations have been adopted. As regards EU‑2 Member States, an overall recruitment target has been defined by the Commission. In addition, indicative targets per Member State were fixed. The degree to which these separate targets are fulfilled depends of many factors, only part of them being under the control of the institutions. 1. The number of Romanian officials and temporary agents working for the Commission on 1 December 2009 is 530. Furthermore, there are 268 Romanian other staff: 223 contractual agents and 45 seconded national experts. These figures show that significant progress has been made although Romania joined the Union only 3 years ago. Indicative recruitment targets were calculated at the moment of the enlargement based on the population, the number of votes in the Council and the number of seats in the Parliament. A 5‑year transition period to allow for a preferential recruitment of nationals of the 2 new Member States was established. This transition period will run until the end of 2011. Including ongoing recruitments, on 1 December 2009, that is to say over 2 years ahead the end of the transition period, more than 90 % of this indicative target for Romanian nationals has been reached. 2. A monitoring system has been implemented since 2007 to ensure priority to the recruitments from the new EU‑10 Member States. Since 2009 this system is implemented also for the EU‑2 Member States, i.e. Romania and Bulgaria. Those DGs that have not reached their indicative target in terms of recruitments from the new Member States are blocked for recruitment of EU‑15 nationals. These measures continue to apply in 2010. As regards further reserve lists with EU‑2 nationals, the Commission has requested the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) to organise a new wave of open competitions specifically targeted at EU‑2 citizens, both in the Assistant (AST) and the Administrator (AD) function groups (including linguistic administrators), for a high number of laureates. The reserve lists are expected by the first half of 2010, ensuring enough time for recruitments before the end of the transition period. Although the Commission has made good progress