believes (H1) that “w e should recall that the Insurance Directives contain mostly minimum rules, and that is the reason why Member States sometimes want to add on to those rules (…). We are preparing "Solvency II" which is a major overhaul of the solvencies requirements for insurance companies. We have been working on that for some time now, ... , and the reason why we do that is based on experiences such as Equitable Life. " According to the Commission, the Solvency II directive " will have a system which is more risk-sensitive, so that everybody concerned, the supervisors as the companies themselves, will be forced to look into the risks of the products they put on the market; such as the capital-market risk that was a major issue also in this case of Equitable Life ." Commissioner McCREEVY in H8 comments on Solvency II: "Our current top insurance priority is the Solvency II project. The ambition is nothing less than to bring about a fundamental revision of insurance regulation and supervision in the European Union. The current solvency regime, like many of us, regrettably, is showing its age! Solvency margin requirements for insurers were first introduced at EU level over 30 years ago and the method of calculation has remained essentially unchanged since then. They were designed for an insurance industry and a world that no longer exist. Insurance directives set out minimum standards that can be and are supplemented in a variety of ways by additional rules at national level. We thus have no real common basis." Speaking of the issue of using more regulations instead of directives, McCREEVY then goes on to say that "in the Solvency II directive we intend to have as much harmonisation as possible and not have all these derogations, etc. However, as these directives go through the process of the Council Ministers and the European Parliament, inevitably things get added on and we do not have correct harmonisation. Let us be very honest about it: not many Member States are jumping up and down asking for the Commission to be given more direct power in those areas and not to have these derogations. It is not happening in any area, least of all the financial services. Let us be brutally frank about it. Even in the most pro-European countries I do not see any of the ministers, whatever their political persuasion – centre, right or left – wanting that. There are very good reasons from their perspective as to why they would not want to go in that direction, so it is a difficult argument altogether." 11. Improved financial information, parallelisms with ENRON On the issue of the lack of information provided to investors, Mr TERTAK (H1) retorts that " presently financial information requirements and transparency requirements have tremendously increased and improved over the last years. [...] We haven't made an analysis yet, whether or not the practice in the UK was at that time the best practice, or at least not very far from the European level. But one thing is sure: