not be allowed and hence not covered by the exemption from VAT and excise duty. Amendment 9 Article 14, paragraph 1, point (a) (a) persons resident in the frontier zone; deleted Justification This concept is discriminatory, hard to police and arbitrary. The Customs already have powers to confiscate goods, which are not for personal consumption or are being resold commercially, which are sufficient to deter abuse by frequent land crossers who reside in frontier zones . Amendment 10 Article 16, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. The monetary thresholds indicated in Article 8(1) and (2) shall be revised at least every five years, by no less than the harmonised index of consumer prices or the official data from Eurostat on the average inflation rate of the Member States, whichever the higher, unless the Council unanimously decides otherwise. Justification The review of the allowances appears to have been sporadic and not automatic so this amendment seeks to bring an automatic review mechanism into the Directive . EXPLANATORY STATEMENT I. Legislative background and current need for revision In 1969 the Council adopted a Directive harmonising provisions to exempt goods imported by travellers coming from third countries from the VAT tax and excise duty Council Directive 69/169/EEC of 28/05/1969 on the harmonisation of provisions laid down by Law, Regulation or Administrative Action relating to exemption from turnover tax and excise duty on imports in international travel. . It introduced exemption from VAT and excise duty on imports of a non-commercial character and below certain quantities brought into the Community by travellers from third countries. It also laid down the quantitative limits on tobacco products, alcohol, perfumes, coffee and tea. The 1969 Directive was amended several times since to introduce several technical adaptations and import quota changes as well as to grant several derogations to some Member States. The 2004 EU enlargement changed substantially the shape and geographical extent of the Union, to share new borders between the EU Member States of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary with countries such as Russia, Ukraine or Belarus, (and this will extend to Moldova, Serbia and Macedonia after January 1 st 2007 when Romania and Bulgaria are expected to join) which therefore required new legislative intervention by the Council as a result of a number of Member States asking the Commission to again review the 1969 provisions. The current proposal calls for the new provisions concerning travellers' allowance to enter into force as of 1 st if January 2007. The Commission has also undertaken to review the thresholds and quantities contained in Title XI of Council regulation (EEC) No 918/83 on the Community system of relief from customs duty to align these with the proposed provisions on VAT and Excise Duty relief for international travellers II. Quantitative and monetary thresholds Under current provisions the travellers from third countries entering the EU are exempted from VAT and excise duty on imports that are of non-commercial character and do not exceed a monetary value of EUR 175 or equivalents in national currencies for Member States outside of the Eurozone. The