prudential and the conduct of business regulators did not spot issues to be addressed or, having spotted them, did not follow them up ", citing as the main reason " the poor level of communication and coordination between the two arms of regulation, prudential and conduct of business ." (par. 6.2.5) In Chapter 7 (" Lessons to be Learned ") the report finally makes a number of technical recommendations Recommendations were made in particular in relation to: tightening of solvency standards; disclosure of financial reinsurance; introduction of multiple control levels; independent review of AA; content and frequency of regulatory returns; improvement of proactive regulatory culture; improvement of communication and coordination within FSA, along with the improvement of risk-assessment processes, in order to ensure " consistency of interpretation and application across the regulatory process". on the future FSA regulatory structure to prevent similar shortcomings. 2. The Penrose Report (March 2004) Underlining in this section was added by the rapporteur. The Penrose Report deals in great detail with the role of regulators, describing and commenting on the regulators' scrutiny of Equitable Life's regulatory returns since the late 1980s. The report was however " explicitly precluded from allocating blame or addressing compensation." Mr. BRAITHWAITE (H11). In Part 6 (Chapters 15 to 18), Lord Penrose relates how the financial strength of the Society was perceived by the prudential regulators and how they approached their supervisory tasks, how they regarded the relationship between prudential and conduct of business regulation and how they responded as the crisis unfolded. 2.1 Definition of prudential supervision Chapter 15, par.7 and 8 define the focus of prudential supervision as " the financial soundness of the insurer and its ability to handle the risks to which it is exposed and meet its liabilities. Thus, as defined in a 1995 service level agreement between DTI and GAD: · To regulate the insurance industry effectively (within the duties and powers set out in the [1982] Act) so that policyholders could have confidence in the ability of UK insurers to meet their liabilities and fulfil policyholders' reasonable expectations.” · To protect consumers by ensuring persons or companies who are not fit and proper, appropriately resourced or soundly managed do not carry on insurance business in the UK . · To protect policyholders against the risk of companies being unable to pay valid claims. In the case of life insurance companies, this includes the risk that they will be unable to meet policyholders' reasonable expectations.” Or to put it briefly: " The main purpose of insurance supervisory legislation is to protect the public from loss through the insolvency, dishonesty or incompetence of an insurer. " Lord Penrose further recalls that " besides informing the regulators at DTI and their advisers at GAD, regulatory returns were public documents and this transparency was relied upon to impose additional discipline on life companies by exposing details of their financial position to critical analysis by informed commentators ..." (par. 9) 2.2 Intervention powers by regulators Under the Insurance Companies Act 1982 and on specific grounds, the prudential regulators had the power