preparation entailing the use of dangerous substances listed in Annex I be included in the directive. Retabling of Amendment 6 adopted at first reading. Amendment 2 ARTICLE 1, POINT 1 Article 4, point (g) (Directive 96/82/EC) (g) waste land-fill sites with the exception of active tailings disposal facilities, including tailing ponds or dams, containing dangerous substances as defined in Annex I and used in connection with the chemical and thermal processing of minerals. (g) waste land-fill sites with the exception of operational tailings disposal facilities, including tailing ponds or dams, containing dangerous substances as defined in Annex I and used in connection with the processing of minerals.”. Justification Reinstatement of Amendment 7 adopted at first reading. The exclusion of other processing methods (mechanical and physical) from the Directive's provisions on waste land-fill sites is unjustified, since the risk is defined by the substances themselves, in their quantity and use, not by their type of processing. In order to prevent recurrence of accidents such as the Donana spill in Spain, it is essential that all types of preparation entailing the use of dangerous substances listed in Annex I be included in the directive. Amendment 3 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2 A (NEW) Article 6, paragraph 2, point g a (new) (Directive 96/82/CE) 2a. In Article 6, paragraph 2, the following point is added after point (g): “(g a) training measures for the staff of the establishment or operating firm and sub-contracting firms on prevention and emergency measures in the event of a major accident.” Justification In the tragic accident in Toulouse on 21 September 2001 it was found that a large number of staff of sub-contracting firms were employed on the site of the AZF plant. Consequently, in order to ensure that all staff are able to take the immediate emergency measures required to protect both themselves and others, they should be given training. This provision does not entail any additional administrative burden in that it merely involves notifying the competent authorities of an additional factor, i.e. staff training and the ability of staff to prevent any major accident and take emergency measures in the immediate aftermath of an accident. Amendment 4 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2 B (NEW) Article 6, paragraph 4 (Directive 96/82/CE) 2b. In Article 6, paragraph 4, the following indent is inserted after the first indent: “– substantial modification of an installation, an establishment or a storage area, or” Justification Such changes should be reported to the competent authority for the purposes of Article 10 of the directive. This provision does not entail any additional administrative burden in so for as the undertaking is already required to apply for prior authorisation from the competent authorities when making any physical changes. Amendment 5 ARTICLE 1, POINT 6 (B A) (NEW) Article 9, paragraph 6, point c a (new) (Directive 96/82/CE) (ba) In Article 9, paragraph 6, the following point is added after point (c): “(ca) Member States shall ensure that the different methods used for drawing up safety reports are harmonised.” Justification The Council did not accept amendment 20 adopted by the