issues, the development of delivery infrastructure and financing mechanisms for purchase and delivery. Justification The EDCTP results directly from the Programme for Action which defines the global framework in which the initiative has to placed: efficiency of the interventions, render medicines more affordable and intensify R&D in view of building an adequate response to confront poverty diseases in the developing countries. Amendment 6 Recital 7 (7) In their Decision No 36/2002/EC of 19 December 2001 1 the European Parliament and the Council decided that the Community would contribute €60 million for the year 2001 to the global fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. 1 OJ L 7, 11.1.2002, p. 1. (7) In their Decision No 36/2002/EC of 19 December 2001 1 the European Parliament and the Council decided that the Community would contribute €60 million for the year 2001 to the global fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The Global Fund does not finance research and development activities. Funds for research and development are needed in parallel to those invested through the Global Fund. 1 OJ L 7, 11.1.2002, p. 1. Justification The GFATM focuses on filling gaps in the financing of current responses to HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria and is driven by a country led process suitable for this purpose. While the Fund may have future roles in supporting developing country capacity to participate in trials as part of their responses to the three diseases or purchasing future products, its allocation process is not tailored to making decisions on R&D funding. It is crucial that funders do not assume that essential R&D investment is covered by the Fund and continue to support R&D in parallel to support for the GFATM. Amendment 7 Recital 7a (new) 7a. Only 10% of the world’s research and development is devoted to the diseases which cause 90% of the world’s pathologies. If this pattern is to be reversed, research (in particular public-sector research) must be refocused on neglected diseases, with a view to enabling suitable medicinal products to be developed which will prove effective against transmissible diseases. Justification As far as the pharmaceutical industry is concerned there is no money to be made out of diseases which mainly affect poor people in developing countries. For that reason the industry does not invest in R&D relating to those diseases. Public-sector research must therefore be revived and be focused on poverty-related diseases which have hitherto been neglected. Amendment 8 Recital 7b (new) 7b. Public investment in basic research carried out for the purpose of combating such diseases rarely leads to either public or private R&D projects and programmes (including clinical trials) conducted with a view to developing new treatments designed to cure those diseases. It is even rarer that pharmaceutical companies enter the final stage of manufacturing suitable medicinal products which patients in developing countries can afford to buy. Justification The medicinal-product R&D process is divided into a number of stages, of which clinical trials are only one. That stage is an important one and it rightly deserves greater public investment. It must nonetheless be seen