12. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8a) In line with the Council and Commission commitments to the concept of “e-justice”, all forms pertinent to the formation and registration of an SPE should be available online. Furthermore, in order to reduce duplicate filing of documents, the Commission sh ould maintain a central registry w ith electronic links to the discrete national registries of Member States. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8 b ) In order to ensure transparency and disclosure of accurate information about SPEs, the Commission should establish and coordinate a database for SPEs, available on the Internet, for the purpose of disclosing, collecting and disseminating information and particulars concerning their registration, registered office, centre of activity, branches and any transfers of their registered office, transformation, merger, division, or dissolution. Justification It is important to guarantee disclosure and information at European level about SPEs established within the EU through a database and a website, in order to guarantee consistency between the specific regime of the SPE and the dimension of the Internal Market, to create transparency for the market and to help coordination among national authorities. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 11 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (11) The SPE should not be subject to a high mandatory capital requirement since this would be a barrier to the creation of SPEs. Creditors, however, should be protected from excessive distributions to shareholders which could affect the ability of the SPE to pay its debts. To this end, distributions that leave the SPE with liabilities exceeding the value of the assets of the SPE should be prohibited. Shareholders, however, should also be free to require the management body of the SPE to sign a solvency certificate. (11) The SPE should not be subject to a high mandatory capital requirement since this would be a barrier to the creation of SPEs. Creditors, however, should be protected from excessive distributions to shareholders which could affect the ability of the SPE to pay its debts. To this end, distributions that leave the SPE with liabilities exceeding the value of the assets of the SPE should be prohibited. Shareholders, however, should also be free to require the executive management body of the SPE to sign a solvency certificate. Justification To bring the recital into line with Amendment 22. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) Employees’ rights of participation should be governed by the legislation of the Member State in which the SPE has its registered office ( the " home Member State " ). The SPE should not be used for the purpose of circumventing such rights. Where the national legislation of the Member State to which the SPE transfers its registered office does not provide for at least the same level of employee participation as the home Member State, the participation of employees in the company following the transfer should in certain circumstances