justifications and certificates are requested various times during the procedure, which involves considerable additional costs for beneficiaries. and in the CEPs study on citizenship: - objectives concerning Town twinning and support for Associations are not sufficiently structured in hierarchical terms Amendment 3181 : budget line 16 03 02 : Local actions Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: The decentralised information has been established to be more adapted to the needs of national audiences. However there are a number of weaknesses in the way citizens are informed and on the contents of the information provided. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should present evidence of improvements in terms of projects, decentralisation, staff and flexibility in particular in the field of the administration Amendment 3180 : budget line 16 03 04 : Specific actions on priority themes, of which PRINCE Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: The Prince program was the first to develop campaigns on the euro, enlargement and on the future of the EU to communicate with the public. However by multiplying the campaigns it missed its targets. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should present an action plan which defines realistic objectives, the number of actions and target groups, and gives more flexibility, in particular in the field of the administration. Amendment 3183 : budget line 16 04 01 : Public opinion analysis Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: The cost-benefit study in the field of information shows that the Eurobarometer is extremely relevant in giving an overview of public opinion on key policy issues ad public opinion trends in the EU but it is essentially a passive information tool that does not seek to extend or increase public awareness and information. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should present a new strategy for the Eurobarometer more focused on accurate and policy-relevant questions and on how to raise the awareness of citizens. Amendment 3182 : budget line 16 04 02 : Online information and communication tools Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: The EUROPA website is one of the most popular and most referenced public websites in the world . However it has as several weaknesses such as a non harmonised presentation, a lack of coherence amongst DGs and a non reliable search engine. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should present a new strategy more oriented to non-expert public and quickly implemented. Amendment 3060 : budget line 19 01 02 01 : External staff of «External relations» Directorates-General budget line 19 01 02 02 : External staff of «External relations» delegations budget line 19 01 02 11 : Other management expenditure of «External relations» Directorates-General budget line 19