WRITTEN QUESTION E-4941/09 by Andreas Mölzer (NI) to the Council (14 October 2009) Subject: Detention pending expulsion Detention pending expulsion is intended to ensure that repatriation can be carried out when an asylum application is rejected. People threatened with deportation attempt to avoid it by disappearing or by being deemed unfit to be kept in detention. Most frequently, they will go on hunger strike, which is sometimes ‘recommended’, even by solicitors and supervisors. This method is problematic in many ways: firstly, refusing to take food can lead to long-term physical damage; secondly, many people who are deemed unfit for detention become involved in crime; and, finally, the welfare system has to cope with the burden of the extra costs of care by medical officers and others. It is said that around a third of hunger strikers succeed in being deemed unfit for detention. People kept in detention pending expulsion also submit repeat applications to delay their deportation. It is reported that in Vienna some 70 % of all asylum applications submitted by people in detention pending expulsion are repeat applications. When deportation finally takes place, a favoured course of action is to cause a commotion at the airport, with the objective of making the pilot refuse entry onto the plane. Both these methods are allegedly also recommended by supervisors to the people they are responsible for. Even when detainees are repatriated, the return country very often refuses to allow them to enter. 1. What are the success rates regarding repatriation from individual EU Member States? 2. Are there any best-practice comparisons in this area? 3. Are there similar problems concerning unfitness for detention in other Member States, and how are they dealt with? 4. What measures are taken in the EU against solicitors and supervisors who advise those in their charge to take such harmful measures and virtually to break the law? 5. What progress has been achieved relating to increased repatriation? 6. Are there plans to cut funding for countries that continually refuse to cooperate in this area?