respect of implementation of the budget The provisions concerning the implementing procedures for the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget in accordance with the financial provisions of the Treaties establishing the European Communities and the Financial Regulation are attached to these Rules as an annex (1). This annex shall be adopted pursuant to Rule 181 (2). Justification Whilst it is technically correct that the Commission is responsible for the implementation of the entire Community budget, the practice has been established of Parliament deciding on discharge separately for Parliament, EDF and other institutions. The procedures laid down in Annex V should thus apply mutatis mutandis to all discharge decisions and not just to that of the Commission. Furthermore, to avoid any confusion the text should refer to the discharge decision as such, leaving open whether this is a decision granting, postponing or refusing discharge. Or. en Amendment 2 Annex V, Article 1a (new) Article 1a Submission of information by the Commission 1. Pursuant to Article 276 of the EC Treaty, the Commission shall submit any necessary information upon request. This may also, where appropriate, entail communication of confidential information and documents. 2. If the Commission submits confidential documents and information, all Members must have the opportunity to consider them in accordance with the procedure for the consideration of confidential documents communicated to Parliament (Annex VII). Justification It should be recalled that the Commission has an obligation to submit any information which Parliament deems necessary. It should also be made clear that Members participate in the discharge decision on an equal footing and therefore also require equal access to the information communicated by the Commission. Or. de Amendment 3 Annex V, Article 3 Granting or refusing discharge The discharge report The committee responsible shall draw up a report comprising: The committee responsible shall draw up a report comprising: a) a proposal for a decision granting or refusing to grant discharge, a) a proposal for a decision granting, postponing or refusing discharge, b) a proposal for a decision closing the accounts of all the Community’s revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities, b) a proposal for a decision closing the accounts of all the Community’s revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities, c) a motion for a resolution containing the comments accompanying the discharge decision including both an assessment of the Commission’s budgetary management over the financial year and observations relating to the implementation of expenditure for the future; c) a motion for a resolution containing the comments accompanying the discharge decision including both an assessment of the Commission’s budgetary management over the financial year and observations relating to the implementation of expenditure for the future; d) annexes containing a list of all documents received from the Commission as well as those requested and not received and, in addition, the working documents drawn up by the Committee on Budgetary Control and opinions from specialised committees. d) an explanatory statement Delete Justification The aim here is to simplify the discharge decision by: ∙ Merging the proposal for a decision on discharge with that on the