Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (15 September 2010) On 3 June 2010 See also IP/10/685 of 3.6.2010. the Commission sent letters of formal notice to the following 12 Member States which at that time had not submitted adopted River Basin Management Plans to the Commission in accordance with Article 15.1 of Directive 2000/60/EC OJ L327, 22.12.2000. : Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Greece, Ireland Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia and Spain. Ireland has since submitted such plans. As already indicated in the reply to the Honourable Member previous Question E‑3605/10 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB , the Commission is currently assessing the River basin Management Plans which have been submitted and the outcome of this assessment will be included in the third report on the implementation of the Water Framework Directive in 2012. In this process, the Commission will pay particular attention to issues such as to which extent Member State have made use of the option to extend the deadline for fulfilling the WFD objectives, and whether all conditions as set out in Article 4.4 have been adequately fulfilled. Before all plans have been assessed in detail it is not possible for the Commission to issue an assessment on the use of exemptions and the timely achievement of the objectives. Moreover, Directive 2000/60/EC does not include a mechanism whereby the Commission grants exemptions. Member States can rely upon exemptions provided that all requirements are fulfilled, and the Commission assesses the need to open infringements cases should it not be satisfied with the justifications and information provided by the Member States. The conditions for a Member State to postpone the deadline for achievement of the objectives are set out in Article 4.4 of the directive. Extensions of the deadline can be granted if at least one of these conditions are fulfilled: the scale of the improvements needed cannot be achieved within the timescale for reasons of technical feasibility; or if completing the improvements in the timescale would be disproportionately expensive; or, finally, if the natural conditions do not allow timely improvement of the status of the water body. The requirements in Article 4.4 also include that the status of the water bodies does not further deteriorate in the additional period; that the reasons for the extension are be set out in the river basin management plans, and that extension are limited to 2 periods (that is no later than the end of 2027). A summary of the measures which will progressively bring waters to good status and the timetable for such measures must also be included in the plan, and a review of the implementation must be included in the reviews of the river basin management plans. The Commission supports already Member States in their efforts to achieve the objectives of the WFD. In 2001, a so called Common Implementation Strategy was initiated by the Commission and Member States' Water Directors. This process brings together Member States, stakeholders and Commission experts on all aspects of the implementation of the directive to support its implementation. To date, 24 Guidance documents have resulted from