into political life in most member states (being active in political parties, trade unions and community groups, being elected as local councillors or even mayors, etc.) - it seems anomalous that they can not sign an initiative which is not binding in legislative terms - It sends a signal to non-EU citizens that the EU is not their concern and does not want their involvement or input - The process of verification of signatures may be done by member states by verifying a sample of signatures. This will encourage campaigners to actively discourage non-EU citizens from signing initiatives for fear of skewing the sample. - It will exclude not only individuals but whole communities which will simply not be targeted by campaigners due to their having a higher percentage of non-EU citizens. - It will promote subliminal racism as campaigners are encouraged to target people who look "more European" when collecting signatures. - The political concept of a "citizens Europe", which inspires the European Citizens' Initiative was never intended to be exclusive, nor to discourage non-EU citizens from engaging with the EU Amendment 23 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. " Organiser " means a natural or legal person or organisation responsible for the preparation and submission of a citizens’ initiative to the Commission. 3. " Organisers " means natural persons forming a citizens' committee responsible for the preparation and submission of a citizens’ initiative to the Commission. (This amendment, namely to change "organiser" to "organisers", applies throughout the text. Adopting it will necessitate corresponding changes throughout.) Justification A genuine citizens' initiative should, per definitionem , be a tool of participatory democracy which is open for citizens of the Union and not for legal persons. Therefore the organisers should only be citizens (natural persons). The organisers should form a citizens' committee in order to be able to launch an initiative. Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – title Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Requirements for the organiser and for signatories Requirements for organisers and for signatories Justification A citizens' initiative should be launched by a citizens' committee made up of natural persons who are citizens of the Union. Therefore this title has to be adjusted accordingly. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Where the organiser is a natural person, that person shall be a citizen of the Union and be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections. 1. Organisers shall be citizens of the Union and be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections. Where the organiser is a legal person or an organisation it shall be established in a Member State . Organisations which do not have legal personality under the applicable national law shall have representatives that have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on their behalf and assume liability. Justification The use of plural is justified by Article 3 paragraph 1a (new). The deletion