WRITTEN QUESTION E-4394/08 by Corien Wortmann-Kool (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (4 August 2008) Subject: Granting of Authorised Economic Operator status to European exporters Since 1 January 2008, undertakings which form part of an international goods chain can, through a self-assessment, undergo one-off stringent checks of their performance on the basis of the criteria of security and reliability. If the results are satisfactory, they are granted Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) status. The purpose of granting AEO status is to guarantee not only more secure flows of goods, but also more efficient logistical chains. Despite the dissemination by the customs authorities of information concerning the changes to the law, it would appear that the business world is not yet convinced of the need for AEO certification. In terms of the day-to-day transport of goods, entrepreneurs who have AEO status are seeing little evidence of simplified formalities at the European Union's external borders. Many exporters are simply not aware of all the changes to the law or of the implications for them of all the new working arrangements employed by the customs authorities. For that reason, exporters in the Member States have thus far been slow to see any benefit in seeking AEO status. 1. Can the Commission state how many AEO certificates have been issued in the Member States? Has the number of certificates issued met the Commission's expectations? 2. Can the Commission explain why not one certificate has been issued in many Member States and can it give an insight into the problems underlying this state of affairs? 3. Does the Commission feel that the advantages of AEO status are sufficiently clear to exporters? 4. Can the Commission state what plans are being made, together with the Member States, to increase the number of AEOs in the Member States? Does the Commission plan to take steps to inform exporters about the greater responsibilities and/or legal obligations they have in connection with customs formalities? 5. How does the Commission plan to scrutinise the way in which customs authorities monitor firms which have been granted AEO status?