Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (12 September 2005) The Commission has supported the Romanian authorities for many years in their efforts to improve child protection. Decisive progress was achieved by the new legislation on children’s rights and adoption, which entered into force on 1 January 2005. Inter-country adoption, which is strictly limited to relatives, is no longer foreseen as a child protection measure. The legislation brings Romania in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and with practices in the Member States and thus completes the reform of the child protection. Most of the large residential institutions have been closed down and replaced with a selection of child protection alternatives ranging from smaller homes to foster care. The remaining larger homes concern mainly homes for disabled children or special residential education. According to the latest figures, the total number of children in residential care is now at 32654 . Out of these 10000 are in boarding schools for special needs children and 10000 are in family type units. With the exception of the boarding schools, most residential institutions have now fewer than 100 children. As regards the conditions in the institutions, they have substantially improved and are often better than the average Romanian conditions. In view of the above, the Commission does not consider that the new legislation penalises children. The Commission will now further support the Romanian authorities in developing the institutional capacity to implement the new legislation, in particular through training and raising awareness of stakeholders, such as judges, staff of maternity hospitals, social workers and the population in general. As regards foster care, the majority of children separated from their natural families are protected in family placement. There are currently 16148 children in foster families. Fostering is thus possible in Romania and, as a matter of fact, the number of professional foster parents has increased over the years. Progress of Romania in the field of child protection, including foster care, has been widely acknowledged. It can be noted that, based on Romania’s positive experience, Unicef published in 2004 a ‘Handbook on de-institutionalisation’ that spells out best practices in Romania and the methodology on de-institutionalisation. This handbook is meant to serve as a useful tool also for other countries in the region.