P5_TA(2001)0552 Classification of Territorial Units for Statistics ***I A5-0335/2001 Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a common classification of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS) ( COM(2001) 83 - C5-0065/2001 - 2001/0046(COD) ) The proposal was amended as follows: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C 180 E, 26.6.2001, p. 108. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 5 (5) Different levels are needed for regional statistics depending on the purpose of these statistics. It is appropriate to have three levels of detail in the European regional classification NUTS. (5) Different levels are needed for regional statistics depending on the purpose of these statistics. It is appropriate to have at least three levels of detail in the European territorial classification NUTS. Amendment 2 Recital 9 (9) Comparability of regional statistics requires that the regions be of a comparable size in terms of population. In order to achieve this goal, amendments of the NUTS classification should render the regional structure more homogeneous in terms of population size. (9) Comparability of regional statistics requires that the territorial units be of a comparable size in terms of population. In order to achieve this goal, amendments of the NUTS classification should render the regional structure more homogeneous in terms of population size. The actual political, administrative and institutional situation must also be respected. Non-administrative units must correspond to economic, social, geographical and environmental circumstances. Amendment 3 Recital 9 a (new) (9a) It is necessary to define the population on which the classification is based. Amendment 4 Article 2 1. The NUTS classification comprises for each region a specified code and name. It subdivides the economic territory of the Community, as defined in the Commission Decision 91/450/EEC of 26 July 1991, into territorial units, hereinafter referred to as “regions”. 1. The NUTS classification comprises for each territorial unit a specified code and name. It subdivides the economic territory of the Community, as defined in the Commission Decision 91/450/EEC of 26 July 1991, into territorial units. 2. The NUTS classification is hierarchical. It subdivides each Member State into NUTS level 1 regions , each of which is subdivided into NUTS level 2 regions , these in turn each being subdivided into NUTS level 3 regions . 2. The NUTS classification is hierarchical. It subdivides each Member State into NUTS level 1 territorial units , each of which is subdivided into NUTS level 2 territorial units , these in turn each being subdivided into NUTS level 3 territorial units. 3. However, a particular region may represent several levels of NUTS. 3. However, a particular territorial unit may be classified at several levels of NUTS. 4. Two different regions in the same Member State may not be identified by the same name. If two regions in different Member States have the same name, the country identifier is added to the region name. 4. Two different territorial units in the same Member State may not be identified by the same name. If two territorial units in different Member States have the same name,