where the approval r e lates to aspects other than those covered in paragraph 1. However, prov i sions for identifying such parts and equipment when placed on the market may, where appropriate, be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2). 2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to original parts or equipment which are covered by a system type-approval with r e spect to a vehicle and to parts or equipment which are type-approved in accordance with the provisions of one of the regulatory acts listed in Annex IV, except where those approvals relate to aspects other than those covered in paragraph 1. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to parts or equipment exclusively produced for racing vehicles not intended for use on public roads. If parts or equipment included in Annex XIII have a dual use for racing and on the road, these parts or equipment may not be sold or offered for sale to the general public for use in on-road vehicles unless they comply with the requirements of this Article. Provisions for identifying such parts or equipment when placed on the market may, where appropriate, be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 40(2). Amendment 20 Article 31, paragraph 3 3. The list referred to in paragraph 1 may be updated and, to the extent ne c essary, the model and numbering system of the certificate referred to in paragraph 4 as well as aspects r e lating to the procedure, the requir e ments, the marking, packaging and the appropriate tests shall be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2). The requirements can be based on the regulatory acts listed in Annex IV or can consist of a comparison of the part or equipment with the performance of the original vehicle, or of any of its parts, as appropriate. In these cases, the r e quirements must ensure that the parts or equipment do not impair the functioning of those systems that are essential for the safety of the vehicle or its environmental pe r formance 3. The procedure and the requirements of the authorisation process referred to in paragraph 1 , and the provisions for the subsequent updating of the list, shall be established in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 40(2) , after consult a tion of stakeholders. Those r e quirements shall include prescri p tions for safety, environmental pr o tection and, where needed, for testing standards. They may be based on the regulatory acts listed in Annex IV , may be developed accor d ing to the relevant state of safety, e n vironmental and testing technology, or , if these are not feasible , may consist of a comparison of the part or equipment with the environmental or safety performance of the original vehicle, or of any of its parts, as appropriate. Justification Clarifies the potential approval requirements for parts in this category. Amendment 21 Article 31, paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. Each part