WRITTEN QUESTION E-0858/08 by Paul van Buitenen (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (21 February 2008) Subject: Inadequate supervision of OLAF In PQ E‑1009/07, I asked the Commission to consider the recommendations of the ‘Wise men’s report’ of September 1999 with regard to OLAF’s supervision. In its reply, the Commission stated that these recommendations were already being implemented to a large extent. The Supervisory Committee of OLAF (SCO) activity report of 17 October 2007 mentions the following shortcomings of OLAF: insufficient leadership, flagging morale, OLAF missing its goals, SCO dependence on OLAF, meaningless reporting of OLAF to its SCO, insufficient OLAF manual, lack of management support and conflict of interest jeopardising the independent conduct of investigations. The European Court of Auditors’ Special report No 1/2005, concerning the management of OLAF, says that the SCO should guarantee OLAF’s independence and the rights of persons under investigation, but that the legislation gives it no decision-taking power to do this. In their report of 1999, the Experts predicted problems with the Commission plans on the SCO. I quote: ‘5.12.5. The EU legislator has attempted to address the problem of the supervision of the activities of an independent OLAF though the mechanism of a Supervisory Committee. … which the Committee has already expressed its reservations. … what precisely OLAF’s supervisor should do. … : Protection of individual rights, Guarantor of “judicial standards” and Quality control 5.12.6. The functions outlined above, particularly the first two, which are of a judicial nature, require not only expertise, but also total legitimacy. The current Supervisory Committee fails on both counts … the members of the Supervisory Committee are nominated, according to criteria and processes which are vague, by a political authority and thus enjoy neither the backing or status of any recognised judicial body. 5.12.7. The EU legislator has in fact recognised these limitations, with the result that the tasks of the supervisor have been restricted (for example to the ex post review of the handling of cases only — see 5.11.2 ff), with the effect that it cannot in any case meet the desiderata for the supervisory body.’ In answer to this, the Experts offered a practical solution; to be introduced in phases: (a) creating specialist offices on EU fraud within the national prosecutors’ offices, (b) delegation of representatives of these specialist national prosecutors’ offices to a supervisory body of OLAF that has the proper legal framework to correct OLAF when necessary, (c) creation of a European Public Prosecutors Office that supervises OLAF. Phases (a) and (b) could have been implemented without a change of EU Treaty. The Commission’s reply on PQ E‑1009/07 referred to insufficient proposals. Is the Commission willing to reconsider these concrete 1999 Expert proposals, which offer the solution for this lack of supervisory powers?