other objectives, including, where appropriate, measures to combat food fraud, the protection of the environment, the protection of animal health, life and welfare and the protection of plant health. Amendment 50 Article 5, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. Food law is one of the instruments available to the Community for developing the European food model on the basis of the principles of quality, diversity and safety. Amendment 51 Article 5, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. Food law shall aim to ensure that the same regulations, in respect of chemical and antibiotic use, are applied to aquaculture products imported into the EU as are applied to Community-produced products. Amendment 52 Article 5, paragraph 3 3. Where international standards exist or their completion is imminent, they shall be taken into consideration in the development or adaptation of food law, except where such standards or relevant parts would be an ineffective or inappropriate means for the fulfilment of the legitimate objectives of food law or there is a scientific justification, or where they would result in a different level of protection than the one determined as appropriate in the Community. 3. Where international standards exist or their completion is imminent, they shall be complied with in the development or adaptation of food law, except where they would result in a lower level of protection than the one determined as appropriate in the Community. Amendment 53 Article 6, paragraph 1 1. Food law shall aim to achieve a high level of health protection, and shall be based on risk analysis except where this is not appropriate to the circumstances or the nature of the measure . 1. Food law shall aim to achieve a high level of health protection, and shall be based on risk analysis except in the case of measures intended to correct misleading information and eliminate packaging which may be harmful to the consumer. Amendment 54 Article 6, paragraph 3 3. Risk management shall take into account the results of risk assessment, and in particular, the opinions of the European Food Authority established in Article 21, and other factors as legitimate to the matter under consideration. 3. Risk management shall take into account the results of risk assessment, and in particular, the opinions of the European Food Authority established in Article 21, and other international legitimate factors relevant to the protection of human health. Amendment 55 Article 7, paragraph 1 1. In those specific circumstances where, following an assessment of available pertinent information, a risk to health is identified but scientific uncertainty persists, provisional risk management measures necessary to ensure the high level of health protection chosen in the Community may be adopted, pending further scientific information for a more comprehensive risk assessment. 1. In those specific circumstances where, following an assessment of available pertinent information, a risk or potential risk to health , either from products from Member States or products imported from third countries, is identified but scientific uncertainty persists, provisional risk management measures necessary to ensure the high level of health protection chosen in the Community shall be adopted by