assessment of an active substance or a plant protection product should not be based on tests or studies involving the deliberate administration of the active substance or plant protection product to humans with the purpose of determining a human No Observed Effect Level of an active substance. Similarly, toxicological studies carried out on humans should not be used to lower the safety margins for active substances or plant protection products. (15) The development of non-animal in vitro (test tube) test methods should be promoted in order to produce safety data more relevant to humans than results of animal studies currently in use. (16) To speed up the approval of active substances, strict deadlines should be established for the different procedural steps. (17) In the interest of safety, the approval period for active substances should be limited in time. The approval period should be proportional to the possible risks inherent in the use of such substances and should be limited to a maximum of 15 years for low risk substances, 5 years for candidates for substitution and 10 years for other substances. Experience gained from the actual use of plant protection products containing the substances concerned and any developments in science and technology should be taken into account when any decision regarding the renewal of an approval is taken. After the first renewal, a regular review of substances should take place . (18) The possibility of amending or withdrawing the approval of an active substance in cases where the criteria for approval are no longer satisfied or where compliance with Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1. Directive as amended by Decision No 2455/2001/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2001, p. 1). and its daughter directives may be compromised, should be provided for. (19) The evaluation of an active substance may reveal that it presents considerably less of a risk than other substances. In order to favour the inclusion of such a substance in plant protection products, it is appropriate to identify such substances and to facilitate the placing on the market of plant protection products containing them. (20) To encourage the development of plant protection products, incentives must be incorporated for placing on the market products with a low risk profile or a risk profile that is lower than that of products already on the market. Clear and objective criteria must be laid down to define which products may claim such a profile. (21) Certain substances which are not predominantly used as a plant protection product may be of value for plant protection, but the economic interest of applying for approval may be limited. Therefore, specific provisions should ensure that such substances, as far as their risks are deemed acceptable by all relevant stakeholders , may also be approved for plant protection use. (22) Some active substances of particular concern, which are currently approved, should be identified at Community and national level as candidates for substitution . Member States