Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (11 July 2006) The Commission shares the concerns expressed by the Honourable Member regarding the impact of destructive practices on vulnerable marine habitats and is well aware that such effects are particularly evident in deep sea ecosystems such as cold-water corals and hydrothermal vents. The Community participated in the formulation of the call made by the General Assembly of the United Nations (UN) in Resolution 59/25 of 2004 which the Honourable Member quotes in his question. The General Assembly agreed to review in 2006 progress made by States and Regional Fisheries Management Organisations following this call. Accordingly, the European Community was requested to make a submission to the UN Secretary-General with information on measures that the Community has taken in this respect. This submission was forwarded to the UN Secretariat Services on 2 May 2006. With a view to ensure full transparency, the Commission has made this document available to the public in the Fisheries and Maritime Affairs website http://ec.europa.eu/comm/fisheries/doc_et_publ/factsheets/legal_textx/docscom/en/ec_report59-25para66to69final.pdf . The EC submission provides an account of the action taken by the EC since 2004. The UN General Assembly will consider further action at its 61st session next November based on a report to be presented by the UN Secretary-General. The Community will prepare its position with a view to the 61st session of the General Assembly in the coming months. In this respect, the Community has already expressed a commitment to respect fully the results of this review process. The Honourable Member is referred in this respect to the statement delivered by Minister Bradshaw on behalf of the European Union to the 60th session of the General Assembly last November http://europa-eu-un.org/articles/en/article_5379_en.htm . With regard to the data requested by the Honourable Member regarding the size of the EC fleet that uses bottom trawls and operates in the high seas, the Commission can indicate the following: the Commission's fleet register currently includes a total of 2238 vessels of more than 24 m length declared with bottom trawl fishing gears and to which a fishing licence has been issued. The length criterion has been used in this criterion as it enables one to assume that such vessels are capable of fishing in the high seas. However, it should be noted that the fleet register does not contain information on geographical activities of the fishing vessels. The Commission is not, for the time being, therefore able to establish separate statistics for vessels operating in waters under national jurisdiction and those which operate in the high seas. It is also worth noting that many vessels included in this size class operate in both types of waters. The fleet register contains information pertaining to 56 further vessels of more than 24 metres length declared with bottom trawl fishing gears, but which are not currently under fishing licence. The value and employment data of the fisheries concerned for EU fishing vessels using bottom trawl are not available in a comprehensive way. The annual economic report (2004, 2005) Source: Annual economic report: Economic performance of selected European