within the limits of the Financial Perspective. (Amendment 18) Article 3, 2nd indent - any operations to contribute to the reconciliation of the two Cypriot communities. - any operations to contribute to a resumption of reconciliation efforts between the two Cypriot communities. (Amendment 19) Article 5 5. Where an essential element for the continuation of pre-accession assistance to Cyprus and Malta is lacking, in particular where there is a violation of democratic principles, the rule of law, human rights, fundamental freedoms or international law and/or progress towards fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria is insufficient, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may take appropriate steps with regard to any pre-accession assistance granted to Cyprus or Malta . 5. Where an essential element for the continuation of pre-accession assistance to Cyprus and Malta is lacking, in particular where there is a violation of democratic principles, the rule of law, human rights, fundamental freedoms or international law and/or progress towards fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria is insufficient, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, and after consulting the European Parliament, may take appropriate steps with regard to any pre-accession assistance granted to either of these countries . (Amendment 20) Article 7 A management committee shall be established (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee”). 1. The Commission shall be assisted by an advisory committee composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by the Commission ('the Committee'). Where reference is made to this article, the advisory procedure laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply. 2. The Committee shall act in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 3 of Decision 1999/468/EC. The period provided for in Article 4 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be three months. 3. The Committee may consider any other matters relating to the implementation of this Regulation which are submitted to its chairman. (Amendment 21) Article 10 Three years after this Regulation enters into force, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council an overall assessment of operations financed by the Community under this Regulation, together with suggestions regarding the future of this Regulation and, where necessary, proposals for amending it. Three years after this Regulation enters into force, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council an overall assessment of operations financed by the Community under this Regulation, together with suggestions regarding the future of this Regulation and, where necessary, proposals for amending it. The Commission shall also submit annually, in good time, the necessary budgetary and financial information to enable the legislature and the budgetary authority to assess and justify the financial intervention of the Community in order to ensure the smooth attainment of the political aim so that this accession process may prove successful, adequate and transparent. European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations in the framework of the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta ( COM(1999) 535 - C5-0308/1999 - 1999/0199(CNS) ) (Consultation procedure) The