to be considered as coming either from the Member State in which he or she permanently resides or from the Member State of which he or she is a national. A signatory permanently resident in a third country shall be considered as coming from the Member State of which he or she is a national. Justification The permanent residence should be indicated instead of the identity documents. This would enable to avoid potential signatories to be dissuaded from signing. The permanent residence should be the first criterion to decide where the signatures come from. EU citizens living in another Member State than the one from which they are nationals or living outside of the EU territory should not be excluded from the possibility of participating in a citizens' initiative. The criterion that should therefore be retained to determine where the signature comes from should be their nationality. Amendment 42 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 8 Decision on the admissibility of a proposed citizens’ initiative deleted 1. After having collected 300.000 statements of support in accordance with Article 5 from signatories coming from at least three Member States, the organiser shall submit to the Commission a request for a decision on the admissibility of the proposed citizens' initiative. For this purpose the organiser shall use the form set out in Annex V. 2. The Commission shall, within a period of two months from the receipt of the request referred to in paragraph 1, take a decision on admissibility. The proposed citizens' initiative shall be considered admissible if it satisfies the following conditions: a. it concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties; and b. it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission to make a proposal. 3. The decision referred to in paragraph 2 shall be notified to the organiser of the proposed citizens' initiative and shall be made public. Justification See the justifications for amendments to Article 4. Amendment 43 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. After having collected the necessary statements of support from signatories in accordance with Articles 5 and 7, and provided that the Commission has decided that a proposed citizens' initiative is admissible in accordance with Article 8, the organiser shall submit the statements of support, in paper or in electronic form, to the relevant competent authorities provided for in Article 14 for verification and certification. For this purpose the organiser shall use the form set out in Annex VI. 1. After having collected the necessary statements of support from signatories in accordance with Articles 5 and 7, the organisers shall submit the statements of support, in paper or in electronic form, to the relevant competent authorities provided for in Article 14 for verification and certification. For this purpose the organisers shall use the form set out in Annex VI. Justification See the justifications for amendments to Article 4. Amendment 44 Proposal