Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (20 August 2010) The Commission is fully aware that family violence has wide-ranging consequences on individual victims, the family itself and the wider community. Victims of violence within the family suffer not only the repercussions of physical violence, but also the long term damage caused by psychological violence. Children are direct victims of violence in the family. This may take the form of physical or psychological violence at the hands of one or more parent/step-parents or sometimes inflicted by other family members such as siblings. It may include sexual abuse, especially for girls. Like many forms of violence, the violence that occurs in the home or family environment is difficult to quantify. Family violence is one of the most hidden forms of violence because it happens in the private sphere, behind closed doors of the family home. As a result, the available data is mainly indicative and generally given as a broad range rather than a single figure. In 2005 for example, the World Health Organisation calculated from a review of 35 country studies that between 10 and 52 % of women reported being physically abused by an intimate partner at some point in their lives. Between 10 and 30 % of women said they had suffered sexual violence by an intimate partner WHO: WHO Multi-country study on women's health and domestic violence against women, WHO, Geneva 2005. . The United Nations (UN) violence study estimated that between 133 million and 275 million children worldwide witness violence at home each year, with 4.6‑11.3 million of these children living in developed countries. In Europe the European Women's Lobby estimates that between 20 and 25 % of women have been subjected to physical violence by a partner — approximately one in five EWL: Unveiling the hidden data on domestic violence in the EU, European Women's Lobby, Brussels 1999. . Some 12‑15 % of women are estimated to have been in a ‘violence relationship’ after the age of 16 Council of Europe: Campaign to combat violence against women, including domestic violence (2007‑08). . The Commission recognises the gap in systematic data collection in Europe on all forms of violence against women, children and young people, which could lead to comparable results. The Commission does not collect data on the prevalence of any form of violence against women, children and young people. This is a gap that the proposed communication for next year on a strategy to combat violence against women aims to address. Within the framework of the Daphne Programme to combat violence against children, young people and women and protect victims and groups at risk the Commission provides financial support to European partnerships and networks of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and local public entities that are active in the field of combating violence. Since its establishment in 1997, the Programme has funded more than 500 projects. The Programme is now in its third phase (2007‑13) and has a total budget of EUR 116.85 million. Information on already finalised projects, including a number of projects on