fulfil the promises and activities in which the company indulges ." (WE59) on role and responsibilities of actuaries, see also the Q&A at the House of Commons Treasury Select Committee, minutes of the 24 April 2004 session (WE59). The AA had specific duties to report to the board on the financial condition of the company, to advise it on bonus distribution and possibly on the interpretation of Policyholders' Reasonable Expectations (PRE). He had to make an annual report on the company’s financial condition, presented to the board and included in abstract in the company’s regulatory returns, which were sent to GAD. Appointed actuaries therefore had no regulatory functions as such but were supposed to report to the regulatory authority if the board did not heed their advice on certain key matters, possibly triggering regulatory action. They were also required to certify the section of the regulatory returns showing the company's liability valuation, inducing a possible closer scrutiny of the returns by regulators. The status of the Appointed Actuary varied considerably between life assurance companies. The FSA reform of insurance regulation, taking full effect on 1 January 2005, abolished the role of the Appointed Actuary in favour of requiring company boards and senior management to take responsibility for actuarial issues and bringing these issues within the scope of the company's external audit. (WE37) WE37, para.25 d). Switzerland appears to have introduced the figure of 'Appointed Actuary' in the Swiss financial supervisory system based on the British model, as reported by the representative of the Swiss Office of Private Insurance (H6). The Actuarial Profession was the first to set up an independent committee of inquiry (December 2000) into the events surrounding the closure of Equitable Life to new business and its implications. The Corley Report 'Corley Report' named after its author, Roger Corley, President of the Institute of Actuaries. , published in September 2001, led a review of the adequacy of the professional guidance issued to Appointed Actuaries, to see whether there had been any contributory factors to the problems at Equitable Life. It concluded in broad terms that guidance had been adequate but recommended that the profession should require the work of Appointed Actuaries to be subject to 'peer review' (WE50). see WE50, para.82: "... The logic of (EL's) unusual bonus philosophy is clear and did not appear at the time to have contravened regulations. But it received only limited support from other actuaries ..." . see WE50, para.89: " On the question of whether the guidance was adequate, we conclude that most of the matters we have identified for which guidance was relevant were covered by the Guidance Notes in some form, even if the wording on some points was general rather than specific ...". see WE50, para.90: " We have not found evidence to suggest that any Appointed Actuary of the Equitable failed to take account of the guidance that was current at the time the various decisions were made. We do not know what conclusions any Appointed Actuary at the Equitable reached when considering how the published Guidance Notes affected