the Council's Fifth Annual Report according to Operative Provision 8 of the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports ( 2004/2103(INI) ) Draftsman: Jacky Henin SUGGESTIONS The Committee on International Trade calls on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Considers that arms control is essential for conducting coherent policies that meet EU objectives on peace, development, respect for human rights and democracy; 2. Notes that some progress has been made in implementing the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Exports, but nevertheless deplores the fact that massive quantities of European arms continue to be supplied, in violation of the Code; hopes that a European instrument can be adopted which will make the Code of Conduct legally binding; 3. Notes a slight drop in expenditure on armaments within the EU in recent years, but is concerned that this is more than offset by an increase in exports of manufactured arms to non-member States; considers that the EU and the Member States should not only implement the Code of Conduct but also help to reduce militarisation and levels of armaments in the world; 4. Supports Parliament’s earlier call for legally binding provisions and a full harmonisation of the Member States’ arms export policy in the medium term, and calls on the Member States to make progress to this end; 5. Considers that arms manufacturers should be encouraged to diversify and redirect their enterprise towards other products; 6. Considers that the EU should continue to encourage other countries, in particular the United States, Russia, Ukraine and China, to adhere to the Code of Conduct on the arms trade, and to limit arms exports and expenditure on arms; 7. Stresses the importance of research aimed at guaranteeing legal supervision and controls on the electronic transfer of knowledge, software and technology having a potential link to goods on the Community list of goods for which an export licence is required; 8. Considers that, in order to combat illegal arms sales and to ensure that arms do not end up in the hands of inappropriate end-users, it is essential to reinforce controls on shipping cargoes, arms end-users, other military and security equipment, manufacture under licence and brokerage; specifically calls, as far as end-users are concerned, for the inclusion of a non-misuse clause in end-user certificates declaring that the material will not be used for proscribed uses; 9. Supports the call on the Member States to investigate once again the possibility of setting up a Community supervision system; further recommends that consideration be given to the model of a European arms export control agency; 10. Calls on the Member States to introduce criminal sanctions for violations, wherever these take place, by European brokers or EU-registered brokers or enterprises, of arms embargoes laid down by the UN, the EU, the OSCE or any Member State; 11. Calls for the introduction in the EU of a special tax on the arms trade, and for the EU to carry on active diplomacy with a view to