Question for written answer E-001914/2011 to the Council Rule 117 Marine Le Pen (NI) (8 March 2011) Subject: EU sanctions against Côte d'Ivoire For the last few months Côte d’Ivoire has been in the grip of instability on account of an election in which the procedure, instead of being brought to a proper conclusion, was cut short. Without siding with either of the parties involved, questions should be asked about the causes and consequences of a situation in which the EU has intervened directly, given that the sanctions chosen are hurting not just the business community, but those who are completely blameless. The sanctions are, moreover, affecting the sub-region as a whole and could therefore cause serious international tensions. However, this is not the first time that an election in an African country, having produced an ambiguous outcome or been stopped in its tracks, has resulted in political deadlock. 1. By what right and under what laws is the EU intervening in the internal affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, a sovereign nation? 2. What criteria does the EU apply when taking the decision to intervene, or not to intervene, in similar or for that matter more sensitive situations on the African continent? 3. Why has the EU tolerated the violation of Article 5 of the Fourth Supplementary Agreement to the Ouagadougou Political Agreement, which has to be implemented if free and democratic elections are to be held? 4. Does the EU realise that by imposing an economic blockade on Côte d’Ivoire, it is running the risk of starving the country and hence triggering serious repercussions on peace and on civilian populations and economic entities in no way to blame for the protracted diplomatic and legal confusion? 5. How can it be considered admissible to place persons on the sanctions list when this is contrary to the principles set out in Article 6 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which guarantees the right to a fair trial? 6. On the basis of what criteria has the list of ‘outlaws’ been drawn up? Are the criteria compatible with human rights in the form that the Convention is intended to protect? 7. Does not the solution lie in a fresh ‘second round’ once — in agreement with the parties — all the conditions (under the Ouagadougou Political Agreement) have been fulfilled, enabling the Ivorian people to exercise their sovereignty without let or hindrance?