the regulated market itself, Member States shall establish how the obligations imposed on market operators under this Directive are to be apportioned between the regulated market and the market operator. 2. Member States shall require the operator of a regulated market to perform tasks relating to the organisation and operation of the regulated market under the supervision and responsibility of the competent authority. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities keep under regular review the compliance of regulated markets with the provisions of this Title. 3. Without prejudice to any relevant provisions of Directive 2003/.../EC [ on market abuse], the public law governing the transactions conducted under the rules and systems of the regulated market shall be that of the home Member State of the regulated market, unless the regulated market concerned determines that the law of another jurisdiction shall govern such transactions. The rules of the regulated market shall specify the governing law if it is not to be the law of the home Member State. 4. Member States shall require the market operator to notify the competent authority of any intended change to the conditions under which authorisation was granted or to the programme of operations of a regulated market . The competent authority shall refuse to authorise the proposed changes where the resulting programme of operations would not fulfil the conditions laid down in this Title. 5. Member States shall provide that the competent authority may withdraw the authorisation granted to a regulated market where failure to comply with the provisions of this Title has resulted or may result in demonstrable and significant prejudice to the sound and prudent operation of the regulated market or the smooth and orderly functioning of financial markets. Article 35 Requirements for the market operator 1. Member States shall require the management of the market operator to be of sufficiently good repute and sufficiently experienced as to ensure the sound and prudent management of the regulated market. Member States shall also require the market operator to inform the competent authority of any changes to the identity of the senior management and key personnel of the market operator. The competent authority shall refuse to approve proposed changes to the senior management and key personnel of the market operator where there are objective and demonstrable grounds for believing that they pose a threat to the sound and prudent management of the regulated market. 2. Member States shall ensure that the market operator is responsible, in particular, for ensuring that the regulated market complies with all requirements under this Title. 3. Member States shall require that the market operator possess, at the time of authorisation and on an ongoing basis, sufficient financial resources to facilitate the orderly functioning of the regulated market, having regard to the nature and extent of the transactions concluded on the regulated market and the range and degree of the risks to which the regulated market is exposed. 4. In order to ensure the consistent application of paragraph 3, the Commission shall adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2),