Sears was a third anchor, but closed in 2012.", " Macy's was a second anchor until it closed in 2017.", " The old Sears site was made into a Illinois Wholesale Furniture which later also closed.", " It also has a post office." ] ], [ "Las Catalinas Mall", [ "Las Catalinas Mall is an enclosed shopping mall located in Caguas, Puerto Rico.", " The mall opened in 1997, and it is anchored by Sears, and Kmart.", " The mall is home to the first \"Large Premium Format\" movie theater in Puerto Rico and second in the Caribbean region at the time of its opening, which is owned and managed by Caribbean Cinemas." ] ], [ "West Towne Mall", [ "West Towne Mall is a shopping mall located in Madison, Wisconsin that is owned by CBL Properties.", " It was the first enclosed shopping center within 70 mi of Madison with its grand opening October 15, 1970.", " The mall was designed by architect Lou Resnick and developed by Jacobs, Visconsi, and Jacobs Co., of Cleveland, Ohio, the developer of Brookfield Square in Milwaukee.", " The 56000 sqft Manchester's store was later replaced by a food court.", " West Towne is the sister mall to the East Towne Mall which opened a year later.", " As of 2008, West Towne Mall is anchored by Sears, J. C. Penney, Boston Store, and Dick's Sporting Goods." ] ], [ "Plaza Carolina", [ "Plaza Carolina is an enclosed shopping mall located in Carolina, Puerto Rico.", " Anchored by JCPenney, TJ Maxx, Forever 21, Best Buy and Sears, it features over 240 stores, making it the second largest mall in Puerto Rico and the Caribbean.", " It also has a food court in its second floor and several offices in its third floor.", " Since 2004, the mall is owned by Simon Property Group.", " The mall was renovated in 2012 including new central atrium and fountain area, new floors, bathrooms and food court." ] ], [ "Plaza del Caribe", [ "Plaza del Caribe is an enclosed shopping mall located in Ponce, Puerto Rico.", " It is owned by Empresas Fonalledas and it is the largest mall in southern Puerto Rico.", " The mall is located at the intersection of Puerto Rico Highway 2 and Highway 12." ] ], [ "Washington Square Mall (Evansville, Indiana)", [ "Washington Square Mall is a shopping mall located in Evansville, Indiana, United States.", " It opened October 31, 1963 and was the first enclosed shopping center in Indiana.", " Developed by Erie Investments, the mall was originally anchored by Sears and an A & P supermarket.", " Louisville-based Stewart Dry Goods was added, as a second anchor department store, in 1969.", " This store -as well as the entire chain- was merged with Indianapolis' L. S. Ayres chain in 1980." ] ], [ "J. C. Penney", [ "J. C. Penney Company, Inc. (doing business as JCPenney) is an American department store chain with 1095 locations in 49 U.S. states and Puerto Rico.", " In addition to selling conventional merchandise, JCPenney