clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use. The parties to the EDCTP programme should adopt the same rules so as to prevent any distortion or discrimination from arising between the ethical standards required inside and outside the European Union. Amendment 18 Article 1, paragraph 1a (new) 1a. The aim of the EDCTP programme is to enable new clinical interventions to be swiftly developed for the purpose of combating HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis and their contributing factors within the target populations in the developing countries, in particular the sub-Saharan countries of Africa. Amendment 19 Article 1, paragraph 2 2. The Community shall pay a financial contribution amounting to a maximum of €200 million for the duration of the sixth framework programme. 2. The Community shall contribute to the EDCTP Programme to a maximum of €200 million for the duration of the sixth framework programme , and the most substantial proportion of this shall be spent in developing countries . Justification The unique value of this initiative lies in the fact that it has the particular purpose of dealing with problems relating to HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in developing countries. The decision must not be ambiguous about this point, and it is important that the EU funds should also be spent in developing countries. Amendment 20 Article 2, paragraph 2 (2) The financial contribution form the Community shall be paid to the structure created by the participating States for the implementation of the EDCTP Programme (hereafter referred to as “common structure”) which shall be endowed with legal personality. (2) The financial contribution from the Community shall be paid to the structure created by the participating States for the implementation of the EDCTP Programme (hereafter referred to as “common structure”) which shall be endowed with legal personality. Justification Grammatical correction. Amendment 21 Article 2, paragraph 3 3. The arrangements for the financial participation of the Community and the rules relating to intellectual property rights shall be adopted jointly by means of an agreement to be concluded between the Commission and the common structure, in accordance with the financial regulation application to the Community budget. 3. The arrangements for the financial participation of the Community shall be adopted jointly by means of an agreement to be concluded between the Commission and the common structure, in accordance with the financial regulation application to the Community budget. The research results obtained under the EDCTP programme shall be regarded as public property and shall not therefore be subject to the intellectual-property rules laid down in the TRIPS agreements, so as to ensure that people in the developing countries have the cheapest possible access to the treatments derived from such research. Justification Strict regulation of intellectual-property rights will be essential: the results of EDCTP work must be made available without any unnecessary restriction in order to ensure ready, affordable access to the final product and/or to any subsequent research. One of the points of the EC action programme to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis refers to the ‘development of specific global public goods’. The