the Rules of Procedure, that he had received a letter sent by the German authorities on 28 September 2010 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of Mr Elmar Brok. The President referred the request to the Committee on Legal Affairs under Rule 6(2). The request for waiver is set out in a letter from the Public Prosecutor of Bielefeld in which it is claimed that Mr Brok failed to include in his income tax declaration for 2005 a fee of EUR 5 000 for a speech he had given in Munich on 28 October 2005 at the ‘Europa Forum’ held by the HypoVereinsbank Group, for which tax was due on an amount of EUR 2 900. The Public Prosecutor considers that this omission may constitute an offence under section 370, 1(2) of the German Fiscal Code. The letter from the Public Prosecutor concludes with the following paragraph: ‘I have refrained from informing the Member of the intention to make him the subject of an investigation, because it is not possible at this stage to exclude the possibility that he has received additional income from similar sources of which the relevant tax authorities are as yet unaware, and notifying him of my intention to launch an investigation might enable him to suppress incriminating evidence and jeopardise the process of ascertaining the truth of the matter.’ The Law The relevant provision of primary Union law is Article 9 of Protocol (No 7) on the privileges and immunities of the European Union, which reads as follows: Article 9 During the sessions of the European Parliament, its Members shall enjoy: (a) in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliament; (b) in the territory of any other Member State , immunity from any measure of detention and from legal proceedings. Immunity shall likewise apply to Members while they are travelling to and from the place of meeting of the European Parliament. Immunity cannot be claimed when a Member is found in the act of committing an offence and shall not prevent the European Parliament from exercising its right to waive the immunity of one of its Members. Since the offence which Mr Brok, a German Member of the European Parliament, is alleged to have committed took place on the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Brok enjoys the immunity accorded to Members of the Bundestag, as set out in Article 46 of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany ( Grundgesetz) Article 46 (Immunities) (1) At no time may a Member be subjected to court proceedings or disciplinary action or otherwise called to account outside the Bundestag for a vote cast or for any speech or debate in the Bundestag or in any of its committees. This provision shall not apply to defamatory insults. (2) A Member may not be called to account or arrested for a punishable offence without permission of the Bundestag, unless he is apprehended while committing the offence or in the course of the following day. (3) The permission of the