in a report delivered on 24 April 1998 by a High Level Group on fraud in the alcohol and tobacco sectors, it is plainly necessary to replace the existing paper-based system with a computerised system for monitoring the movement of excisable goods, such as will allow Member States to obtain real-time information on those movements and to carry out the requisite checks, including checks during movement of products, within the meaning of Article 15 of Directive 92/12/EEC. (4) The setting-up of a computer system should also allow the intra-Community movement of goods under suspension of excise duties to be simplified. (5) A computerised system for intra-Community movement of goods (EMCS) should be compatible and, if technically possible, merged with the new computerised transit system (NCTS), to strengthen action to combat fraud and to facilitate procedures for administration and trade. (6) For the purposes of implementing this Directive, the Commission should coordinate Member States" activities, so as to ensure the smooth operation of the internal market. It should also support the use of data to combat fraud, particularly by applying risk analysis at the Community level. (7) Because of the size and complexity of such a computerised system, both the Community and the Member States will need large additional human and financial resources for the purpose. Accordingly, provision should be made whereby the Commission and the Member States make the necessary resources available for the development and deployment of the system. (8) Such a complex computerised system should not be developed and deployed at the expense of the competitiveness of the economic operators, in particular the many small and medium-sized companies active in this sector. Member States should develop a standard application for connection to the system, which should be made available free of charge. (9) The division between the Community and non-Community components of the computerised system should also be defined, as should the respective duties of the Commission and the Member States with regard to the system's development and deployment. Such duties should include responsibility for the security aspects of the system, its lawful application and the ownership and handling of commercially confidential information held thereon. The Commission should fulfil the major role in coordinating, organising and managing the system. (10) Arrangements should be made for evaluating the implementation of the computerised system for monitoring excisable goods. (11) The computerised system for monitoring excisable goods will not be operational before 2007. Given the levels of fraud and red tape associated with the current paper-based system, the Commission should, after having consulted the industries concerned, propose and/or implement the necessary short-term measures to improve the functioning of the system. (12) The funding of the system should be shared between the Community and the Member States, the Community's share being specifically entered as such in the General Budget of the European Union. (13) This Decision establishes an overall financial amount covering the entire period needed for the development and the deployment of the system, and representing the budgetary authority's prime reference within the meaning of Point 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6