on compulsory origin marking on goods imported from third countries, C. whereas a number of the EU's major trading partners, such as the United States, China, Japan and Canada, have enacted mandatory origin-marking requirements, D. whereas, in the Lisbon Agenda, the EU set itself the objective of strengthening the EU economy by, inter alia, improving the competitiveness of EU industry in the world economy; whereas competition can be considered fair when it operates with clear rules for producers as well as for exporters and importers and when it is built on common social and environmental assumptions and values, E. whereas an origin marking scheme would have the aim of allowing EU consumers to be fully aware of the country of origin of the products they purchase; whereas consumers would thus be able to identify those products with the social, environmental and safety standards generally associated with that country, F. whereas the proposal introducing a mandatory country of origin marking system in the EU is restricted to a limited number of imported products, such as textiles, jewellery, apparel, footwear, furniture, leather, lamps and light fittings, glassware, ceramics and handbags, for which the 'made in' requirement provides valuable information for final consumer choice, G. whereas it is crucial to ensure a level playing field with the producers of our major partners which have implemented origin marking, H. whereas the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty on 1 December 2009 will put the Council and the European Parliament on an equal footing regarding the common commercial policy; whereas the ordinary legislative procedure under Article 207 of the Lisbon Treaty will be applicable to future regulation on origin marking, 1. Reiterates that consumer protection requires transparent and consistent trade rules, including indications of origin; 2. Calls on the Commission and the Council to take all necessary steps to ensure a level playing field with trading partners which have implemented origin-marking requirements; 3. Calls on the Commission and the Council to set up proper customs surveillance and enforcement mechanisms; 4. Urges Member States to maintain a consistent Community approach to this issue to enable EU consumers to receive more complete and accurate information; regards compulsory origin marking as an important step towards more complete information about social and environmental production and processing standards; 5. Encourages the Commission strongly to intervene, together with the Member States, to defend consumers’ legitimate rights and expectations whenever there is evidence of fraudulent or misleading origin marking by importers and non-EU producers; 6. Considers the proposal for a Council regulation introducing compulsory indications of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries into the European Union (‘origin marking’) useful in reaching the objective of transparency and appropriate information for the consumer as well as consistency in international trade rules; 7. Considers that, from 1 December 2009, under the ordinary legislative procedure set out in the Lisbon Treaty, consultation and exchanges of views between it and the Council should formally start and that any further delay would seriously damage citizens’ rights, employment in the EU and the principle of