4. Instructs its President to forward this legislative resolution to the Council and Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Introduction After the sinking of the tanker Erika on 12 December 1999, the European Parliament and the Council called for a major strengthening of the Community rules on maritime safety. The Commission acted rapidly on these demands, submitting the three proposals known collectively as the ' Erika I package'. These are: the proposal under discussion in this report; the proposal on standards for shipping using Community ports (rapporteur: Mr Watts), whose legislative history has been identical; and, finally, the proposal on the introduction of double hull standards for single hull oil tankers (rapporteur: Mr Hatzidakis), which is to be debated and voted on at the forthcoming part-session. The ' Erika II package', now being debated, concerns complementary measures of a different kind, i.e. those aimed at ensuring longer-term forms of protection against accident and pollution risks in the European maritime area. With respect to the present report, Directive 94/57 establishes a system of Community-wide recognition of survey organisations, i.e. organisations that, in compliance with the international conventions, may be authorised to a various extent to inspect ships and issue the relevant safety certificates on behalf of the Member States. The evolution of the applicable legislation at both Community and international level, in particular the codes and resolutions of the International Maritime Organisation (IMO), has been such that further adaptations of the directive are now required. More specifically, the divergence in the financial liability regimes of the organisations working on behalf of the Member States has represented a considerable difficulty in the proper implementation of Directive 94/57. It is therefore appropriate to bring about a degree of harmonisation at Community level of the liability arising out of any incident caused by a recognised organisation, in relation to the settlement of disputes through legal procedures. In addition, one of the necessary conditions for the initial and continued recognition of an organisation must be that it can demonstrate a good record of safety and pollution prevention performance, measured in respect of all ships classed by it, irrespective of the flag they fly. Finally, the granting of recognition and the subsequent monitoring of recognised organisations should be centralised and should be the joint responsibility of the Commission and the Member State which has asked for the recognition. First and second reading On 30 November 2000 the European Parliament adopted the first-reading report by Josu Ortuondo Larrea (Verts/ALE, ES). The amendments in this report essentially concerned the practical aspects of the classification system, the withdrawal of recognition in case of serious accidents, greater transparency in the provision of information by the organisations, and the revision of the compensation levels relating to their liability. On 26 February 2001 the Council adopted its common position. The changes introduced in the new text, arising from the modification of the proposal by the Commission, related primarily to financial liability and, notably, the limits to the sums payable in case of personal injury or material damage. Parliament adopted the present rapporteur's second-reading report on 16 May