provisions. Up to the present day, it is the most comprehensive international arms export control regime. The Council, in particular its COARM Working Party, and the Member States try continuously to find ways to strengthen transparency, dialogue and convergence in the area of the export control of conventional arms. The major achievements mentioned in the Fifth Annual Report and the attached Compendium are a User's Guide to the Code of Conduct, the establishment of a central database for denial notifications, the Common Position on arms brokering, a revised list of military equipment and the intention to initiate a review of the Code in 2004. As in previous years, the European Parliament welcomes the improvements of the Code. It is concerned, however, about the continuous lack of implementation of its recommendations. In particular, the European Parliament's call for the Code to be legally binding still remains relevant. Moreover, the Annual Report on human rights of 22 April 2004 stresses that “EU human rights policies have been undermined by (…) Member States systematically not maintaining a restrictive application of the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Exports” P5_TA(2004)0376 , paragraph 30. . The European Security Strategy of December 2003 identifies regional instability, failing states, organised crime and international terrorism as key threats for the EU. Although the strategy paper does not mention it specifically, uncontrolled arms exports to recipients outside of the EU can increase significantly these threats. In this context, it is necessary to take into consideration that 80 per cent of EU arms exports goes to non-European countries SIPRI Yearbook 2004, p. 458. . Moreover, enlargement has increased the EU's share in the international arms trade in general and in the production of small and light weapons in particular. Thus, a clear common arms export policy is very important. The harmonisation of the EU’s arms export policy vis-à-vis third countries will also strengthen the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) framework, in which it takes place. This is particularly relevant in regard to enlargement on 01 May 2004, when 10 new Member States joined the EU. II. Assessment of the fifth year of implementation of the Code 1) Harmonisation of national reports The Member States’ national reports form the basis of the annual report. However, little progress has been achieved in the harmonisation of these reports since the publication of the fourth annual report. Although all Member States should provide data for each recipient country on the number of licences issued, on the value of licences issued in Euros (if available), on the value of arms exports in Euros (if available), on the number of licence refusals and on the criteria numbers on which refusals are based, the SIPRI Yearbook 2004 highlights that some governments are still unwilling or unable to submit the necessary data. Table A in the Annex shows that Denmark, France, Germany, Greece and Ireland do not provide data on the value of arms exports, whereas the Netherlands and Portugal do not submit data on the value of licences issued. This is a clear obstacle to complete transparency and