the EU Member States in the application of the Directives on life and non-life insurance. It considered that " the adoption of the 3LD insurance and life assurance framework Directives, which set up single authorisation and single supervision, particularly financial supervision exercised only by the competent authorities of the home Member State, makes necessary a deepening of their co-operation, which is already covered by protocols applying the First and Second Directives. " It was intended to " uphold practical collaboration between national administrative services for the purpose of facilitating the supervision of direct insurance within the European Union and of examining any difficulties which might arise in the application of the Directives ." (WE55) The supervisory authorities declared that " the analysis of the situation of undertakings in their respective countries calls for a variety of supervisory methods and practices and for a collection of different accounting documents and statistics. The standardisation of supervision would be improved by means of a common language of analysis and harmonisation of insurance accounting documentation and statistics. The supervisory authorities confirm that they must have a standard document allowing them to verify the state of the solvency margin, since this is not immediately apparent from an examination of an undertaking's accounts." see WE55, part I, point 1.3. Referring to cooperation and professional secrecy, the supervising authorities agreed to " exchange confidential information whenever possible, within the limits of the rules laid down in the Third Directives...) in order to improve the effectiveness of insurance supervision in the European Community" adding that "the rules for collaboration set out in the protocol may show themselves to be inadequate when faced with actual cases and agree that as a result they will be expanded as the need arises." see WE55, part I, points 1.4-1.6. 11. The Solvency II project Referring to the ongoing work on the main regulatory project for the insurance business The proposal for a new solvency framework for the insurance sector (Solvency II) should be adopted by the Commission in the second half of 2007, aiming at entry into force in 2010. , Commissioner McCREEVY (H8) stated that the Solvency II project "has already created a new climate of supervisory cooperation at EU level ", confirming that it was the Commission's " current top insurance priority " with the ambitious aim of bringing about " nothing less than a fundamental revision of insurance regulation and supervision in the EU. The current solvency regime... is showing its age! Solvency margin requirements for insurers were first introduced at EU level over thirty years ago and the method of calculation has remained essentially unchanged since then. They were designed for an insurance industry and a world that no longer exist... Solvency II has the challenging job of achieving a balance between the expectations of consumers, supervisors and insurers. It is crucial that the industry should not lose its appetite for risk because of excessive supervisory obligations. But it is also important that companies are fully aware of the risks they are taking on and accept the corresponding consequences. Within