Answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission (17 December 2010) There are no harmonised rules in the EU on the taxation of contributions to pensions. Under the current state of EC law, direct taxation falls essentially within the competence of Member States. Thus, Member States are basically free to decide on their rules on direct taxation and retain the power to define the criteria for allocating their taxation rights. The only limitation to the fiscal sovereignty of Member States lies in the fact that, in the exercise of their respective competencies, they must respect their obligations under the EU Treaties. Thus, Member States are not allowed to discriminate on the basis of nationality or to apply unjustified restrictions to the exercise of the freedoms guaranteed by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Commission in a Communication of 2001 on the elimination of tax obstacles to the cross-border provision of occupational pensions COM(2001)214 final — Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee: The elimination of tax obstacles to the cross-border provision of occupational pensions (http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2001:0214:FIN:EN:PDF). expressed its view that discriminatory tax treatment of pension, and life assurance, policies concluded with pension institutions established in other Member States is contrary to the EU fundamental freedoms and that it constitutes a major obstacle to cross-border pension provision and labour mobility. Member States must in other words ensure that they grant the same tax treatment for contributions to domestic pension institutions and those established in other Member States. The Commission does not have enough details regarding the tax situation of the constituent of the Honourable Member to make an informed assessment as to whether there may have been an infringement of EC law in his particular case. However, the Commission's preliminary analysis indicates that at the relevant time, Germany's pertinent legislation treated contributions to pension funds situated in other Member States in the same manner as contributions paid to domestic pension funds. It appears that, under Section 3 Nr. 63 of the German Income Tax Act (EStG), contributions to pension funds were tax exempt up to a certain level and after that were taxable irrespective of whether they were paid to domestic or foreign pension funds. The Commission has not, up to now, received any complaint about discrimination in the tax treatment of contributions paid by a German tax resident to foreign pension funds, although it has launched several infringement procedures against other Member States with regard to the discriminatory tax treatment of contributions paid to foreign pension funds. For further details see the following link: http://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/taxation/personal_tax/pensions/index_en.htm