Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4a. At any time before the submission of statements of support in accordance with Article 9, the organisers may withdraw a registered initiative. If an initiative is withdrawn, an indication to that effect shall be entered in the register. Justification The citizens' committee should remain free to withdraw an initiative when it considers that it is useless to continue the collection of signatures or it simply does not intend to continue its activity for any reasons. However, this opportunity should not be granted after the submission of the statements of support, because Member States spend taxpayers' money on verifying signatures. Amendment 36 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. All registered initiatives shall be given a reference number. Justification This will keep citizens up to date on the status of various citizens' initiatives. Amendment 37 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Only statements of support forms which comply with the model set out in annex III may be used for this purpose. The organiser shall complete the forms as indicated in annex III prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories. The information given in the forms shall correspond to the information contained in the register. Only registered language versions of statements of support forms which comply with the model set out in annex III may be used for this purpose. The organisers shall complete the forms as indicated in Annex III prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories. The information given in the forms shall correspond to the information contained in the register. Justification Pursuant to Annex III signatories should provide the following information: name, address of permanent residence, date and place of birth, nationality, date of signature. Only registered language versions of the form should be used for collecting signatures, because otherwise, in case of an incorrect translation, it could not be assured that the signatures are collected for the same initiative. Amendment 38 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. All statements of support shall be collected after the date of registration of the proposed initiative and within a period that shall not exceed 12 months. 4. All statements of support shall be collected after the date of registration of the proposed initiative and within a period that shall not exceed 12 months. At the end of that period, the register shall indicate that the period has expired and, where appropriate, that the Commission has ascertained that the necessary statements of support have not been submitted. Justification The time limit for the collection of signatures shall be respected. If the necessary signatures are not collected within the time limit, the initiative is not successful; therefore it should be deleted from the register which contains only ongoing initiatives. Amendment 3 9 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission