other cruel, inhuman and degrading treating being - often secretly - exported to countries where the EU standards for democracy, human rights and sustainable development are clearly not respected. Particularly from the point of view of the broad principles underlying the EU’s external policy, such as human rights, conflict prevention and sustainable development, a strict arms export control regime at European and international level is very important. Therefore, additional measures for more stringent controls, for legally binding provisions and for greater transparency are urgently needed. 1) More stringent controls First of all, the Council should adopt the European Commission's proposal for a Council Trade Regulation imposing an export ban on all equipment for torture and laying down strict controls for equipment that might be used for internal repression. Furthermore, the Member States should also agree on a common list of countries involved in armed conflicts, to which arms exports should be banned in principle (‘presumption of denial’). It is also necessary to systematise physical controls of arms shipments at point of import, transit and export. Finally, the Member States should interpret the Code of Conduct in the strictest way possible. In particular, they should acknowledge the application of the Code in the following cases: § products which may be used for both civilian and military purposes such as surveillance technology and products or parts thereof which are suitable for cyber warfare or for non-lethal human rights abuses; § items destined for incorporation by the importing country into a sub-assembly or finished weapons system; § the production of EU licensed arms (or its components) in third countries; § all forms of "government to government" transfers, in particular the transfer of surplus arms; § military, security and police personnel, expertise and training and private military and security devices. 2) Legally binding provisions Parliament has reiterated calls for the Code to be made legally binding and for EU Member States’ arms export policy to be fully harmonised. It welcomes, therefore, the possibility that the Code of Conduct will be transformed into a Common Position. However, further substantial improvements and individual steps, which the European Parliament already outlined in its last report, are possible: (a) The Member States should consult amongst each other to a greater extent prior to decisions being taken to refuse licences or with regard to transfers to regions susceptible to crises. Closer co-operation between the COARM Working Party and the Council’s various regional working parties would also contribute to achieving that end. (b) Whilst exchanges of information and consultation have to date only taken place on a bilateral basis, steered by respective Council Presidencies, a more multilateral approach to the consultation process in connection with decisions to grant or refuse licences would represent an important step in the direction of harmonisation. (c) As a further interim step towards making the Code of Conduct legally binding, the European Parliament recommends to all Member States that the Code be transposed into national law. 3) Greater transparency The inclusion of 10 acceding countries has made the harmonisation of future national annual reports a pressing issue.