developed OMCPs (open method of coordination processes) in other policy areas; the areas of European governance where the application of such a method of governance is to be preferred to the other executive instruments at the Union’s disposal are not specified by the Treaty, by other regulatory provisions, or by an interinstitutional agreement, and whereas any decision to apply that method is taken on a case-by-case basis by the Council acting on a proposal from the Commission or on its own initiative, E. noting a progressive switch in the European decision-making process from traditional legislative work to new methods of working in areas where the legislative approach is inappropriate, F. taking it as read that the European Parliament is the only institution which is capable, at European level, of exercising democratic control over political processes, including the open method of coordination, G. noting that the European Parliament, the guarantor of democratic debate, is at risk of being marginalised or sidelined by these new political procedures, H. whereas the role of the European Parliament in relation to the procedure known as the open method of coordination is unspecified, with only the European employment strategy including a provision for Parliament to be formally consulted, I. whereas, even in that instance, Parliament’s role is considerably constrained by the time limits attached to the procedure, J. whereas not only the European Parliament but also the national parliaments must be given due influence and responsibility in the OMCPs, K. whereas there is a dearth of general surveys of the effectiveness of the method in achieving both the long-term objective of national policy coordination and the procedure’s short-term objectives, namely: exchanging good practice, assessing national policy, setting targets and responding to Commission recommendations, L. whereas, according to various experts, the global impact of the open method of coordination is determined by the degree of coordination required at Union level in each area, the groupings through which national interests are represented and the ability of the national authorities to bring national policy into line with the prescribed European strategy, M. whereas the Convention’s four working groups on the simplification of legislation, the Union’s complementary competencies, economic and social policies and ‘Social Europe’ have stressed the need for the method to be more precisely specified, and for the method to be incorporated in the Constitutional Treaty, N. whereas the Convention’s Presidium has submitted an initial draft constitutional treaty, Title III of which defines Union competencies and actions, with Articles 11, 12 and 13 respectively indicating the areas in which the Union may lead the way or support coordinated action involving the Member States and the sectors where the Member States will be able to cooperate, while Title V should specify the instruments for such cooperation, O. attaching just as much importance to an open and flexible approach, so that the open method of coordination is adaptable to different policy fields and to future developments in the EU, 1. Considers that it is necessary for the Convention to address the question of the application of the open method of coordination; calls