Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (30 August 2011) The Commission would first of all like to make a distinction between private security companies acting within the territory of the EU and those acting outside the territory of the EU. As regards private security companies acting within the territory of the EU, Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market Directive 2006/123/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market, OJ L 376, 27.12.2006. , explicitly excludes private security services from its scope (Article 2)2.(k)). However, in accordance with Article 38 of the directive on services in the internal market the Commission had to assess the possibility of ‘presenting proposals for harmonisation instruments (…) on private security services and transport of cash and valuables’ by 28 December 2010. The Commission has met the stakeholders of private security services several times in order to better understand the specificities and expectations of that sector. In these contacts diverging views have been expressed on the need or usefulness for further harmonisation. The Commission services have also gathered additional information on specific Member States' legislation, including in the context of complaints and ongoing infringement procedures. Based on the information at the disposal of the Commission at this stage, there is no evidence of a major internal market malfunctioning for private security services that would justify or require legislative measures. Before taking any decision about possible legislative initiatives the Commission services would in any event need to conduct further analysis. As regards private security companies acting outside the territory of the EU the Commission would be open to study further the need for taking action and what instruments might be available to better define the activities of such companies.