for alternative surgical techniques, preserving the breast by using the patient’s own tissue, to be made more widely known and encouraged; 7. Calls on the Member States’ authorities to establish a national register of breast implant patients, providing a clear record of their medical aftercare, experience and best practice; to this end considers that patients should give their consent in writing, after a period of consideration, on its use for the purposes of scientific research; points out that due account must be taken of existing law on the protection of privacy when processing personal data, that access to the registers must be restricted and that their content must be treated as confidential; 8. Considers that there is a need to regulate the advertising in some Member States , which is fuelling the demand for implants without providing any balanced information; 9. Underlines the importance of medical supervision after breast implant surgery, to screen for cancer and intra- and extra-capsular rupture; points out that for this purpose the use of medical imaging techniques such as scanning, magnetic resonance and echography help surveillance and the accuracy of diagnosis; 10. Calls for the introduction of a passport for implant recipients, and for compulsory aftercare examinations at an interval of no more than 12 months, the results of which must in the interest of safety and compatibility be made available for research and further development; 11. Urges the Member States to carry out thorough and frequent inspections particularly in the case of private clinics that perform breast implant operations, using the national/regional public health inspectors. 16 December 2002 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON PETITIONS for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the communication from the Commission on Community and national measures in relation to breast implants (COM(2001) 666 – C5‑0327/2002 – 2002/2171 (COS)) Draftsman: Janelly Fourtou PROCEDURE The Committee on Petitions appointed Janelly Fourtou draftsman at its meeting of 22 November 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 3 and 9 December 2002. At the latter meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Roy Perry, vice-chairman and acting chairman; Janelly Fourtou, draftsman; Nuala Ahern (for Jean Lambert pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Proinsias De Rossa, Marie-Hélène Descamps, Glyn Ford, Margot Kessler, Ioannis Koukiadis and Eurig Wyn. SHORT JUSTIFICATION I. Background to the Commission proposal It should be pointed out that it is thanks to two petitions addressed to Parliament by citizens concerned about the safety of silicone breast implants that this communication has been published. The report presented by Parliament relating to those petitions - based on a STOA study and adopted unanimously – essentially called for rules to protect patients’ health and to improve the marketing, quality and testing of implants, without, however, recommending a total ban on implants. We consequently welcome the Commission communication, the purpose of which is to lay down the measures to be adopted at the Community and national level in order to address issues relating to requirements in respect of breast implants themselves and the accompanying