following were present for the vote: Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne (chairman), Geoffrey Van Orden (vice-chairman), Christos Zacharakis (vice-chairman), Marie Anne Isler Béguin (draftsman), Per-Arne Arvidsson, Alexandros Baltas, Bastiaan Belder, Michael Cashman, Alejandro Cercas (for Rosa Diez Gonzales pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Véronique De Keyser, Glyn Ford, Michael Gahler, Robert Goebbels (for Jacques Poos pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Alfred Gomolka, Richard Howitt, Efstratios Korakas, Cecilia Malmström, Jean-Charles Marchiani, Edward H.C. McMillan-Scott (for Ursula Stenzel), Philippe Morillon, Pasqualina Napoletano, Elena Ornella Paciotti, (for Demetrio Volcic pursuant to Rule 153(2)) José Ribeiro e Castro (for Luis Queiro pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Jannis Sakellariou, José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, Jacques Santer, Jürgen Schröder, Ilkka Suominen, Hannes Swoboda, Charles Tannock, Maj Britt Theorin, Joan Vallvé and Karl von Wogau. SHORT JUSTIFICATION Operation of the Guarantee Fund and EU enlargement Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2728/94 of 31 October 1994, modified by Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1149/99 of 25 May 1999 established a Guarantee Fund for external actions so that the Community’s creditors could be reimbursed in the event of any default by the beneficiaries of loans granted or guaranteed by the Community, and thus provided a liquidity cushion to protect the Community budget in the event of a default or late payment on a guaranteed loan. The Guarantee Fund covers lending in third countries through three different mechanisms: guarantees of European Investment Bank (EIB) external lending, Euratom external lending and EU macro-financial assistance (MFA) loans to third countries. The accession of 10 countries to the EU on 1 May 2004 will affect the Fund, as several of these countries have benefited from EIB loans guaranteed by the EU Budget. As soon as they cease to be ‘third countries’ the guaranteed loans to these countries will no longer be covered by the Fund’s liquidity cushion, and the reserves set aside for this purpose will be reduced in proportion to the guarantees for these countries’ outstanding debts and will revert to the Community budget. It should be noted that there are no MFA or Euratom loans outstanding in these 10 countries. According to forecasts, the outstanding amounts of loans to the countries concerned will be about €3 808 million on 1 May 2004, which would imply that the Fund would be reduced by, and the EU budget receive, about €343 million (calculated at the current target rate of 9 %). The change in these countries’ status does not mean a withdrawal of the guarantee from these loans, rather that in future a call on such a guarantee would impact on the EU budget directly. The credit risks relating to these loans are political or commercial. The Community guarantee always covers the ultimate political risk (i.e. the risk of bankruptcy of the State contracting the loan, a very unlikely hypothesis in these cases), and the EIB covers the commercial risk. The last loan granted to these 10 States will have been repaid in 2021. Commission proposal and draftsman’s position The Commission proposes a modification to the Council regulation establishing the Fund in order to ensure an orderly transfer of these