External Trade, Research and Energy as the committee responsible and the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the Committee on Development and Cooperation and the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities for their opinions ( C5-0392/2002 ). At the sitting of 24 October 2002 the President of Parliament announced that the Committee on Development and Cooperation, which had been asked for its opinion, would be involved in drawing up the report, under Rule 162a of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy had appointed Gérard Caudron rapporteur at its meeting of 8 October 2002. It considered the Commission proposal and draft report at its meetings of 7 October, 11 November and 2 December 2002 and 22-23 January 2003. At the last meeting it adopted the draft legislative resolution by 37 votes to 6, with 0 abstentions. The following were present for the vote: Carlos Westendorp y Cabeza (chairman), Yves Piétrasanta and Jaime Valdivielso de Cué (vice-chairmen), Gérard Caudron (rapporteur), Sir Robert Atkins, Luis Berenguer Fuster, Mogens N.J. Camre (for Seán Ó Neachtain, pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Marco Cappato, Giles Bryan Chichester, Nicholas Clegg, Willy C.E.H. De Clercq, Concepció Ferrer, Francesco Fiori (for Guido Bodrato), Per Gahrton (for Nuala Ahern), Norbert Glante, Michel Hansenne, Hans Karlsson, Werner Langen, Rolf Linkohr, Caroline Lucas, Eryl Margaret McNally, Erika Mann, Marjo Matikainen-Kallström, Angelika Niebler, Giuseppe Nisticò (for Umberto Scapagnini), Reino Paasilinna, Paolo Pastorelli, Elly Plooij-van Gorsel, Samuli Pohjamo (for Colette Flesch), John Purvis, Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl, Bernhard Rapkay (for Massimo Carraro), Imelda Mary Read, Mechtild Rothe, Christian Foldberg Rovsing, Paul Rübig, Konrad K. Schwaiger, Esko Olavi Seppänen, Claude Turmes, W.G. van Velzen, Alejo Vidal-Quadras Roca, Dominique Vlasto and Myrsini Zorba. The opinions of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Development and Cooperation and the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities are attached; the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy decided on 9 September 2002 not to deliver an opinion. The report was tabled on 24 February 2003. DRAFT LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on Community participation in a research and development programme aimed at developing new clinical interventions to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis through a long-term partnership between Europe and the developing countries, undertaken by a number of Member States and Norway ( COM(2002) 474 – C5-0392/2002 – 2002/0211(COD)) (Codecision procedure: first reading) The European Parliament , – having regard to the Commission proposal to the European Parliament and the Council ( COM(2002) 474 Not yet published in the OJ. ), – having regard to Article 251(2) and Articles 169 and 172 of the EC Treaty, pursuant to which the Commission submitted the proposal to Parliament ( C5-0392/2002 ), – having regard to Rules 67 and 162a of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the opinions of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Development and Cooperation and the Committee on