Following an exchange of views, the Conference of Presidents and the Conference of Committee Chairs shall declare the hearings closed unless they decide to seek further information. The President-elect of the Commission shall present the whole college of Commissioners-designate and their programme at a sitting of Parliament which the whole Council shall be invited to attend. The presentation shall be followed by a debate. In order to wind up the debate, any political group or at least forty Members may table a motion for resolution. Rule 103(3), (4) and (5) shall apply. Following the vote on the motion for resolution, Parliament shall vote on whether or not to give its consent to the appointment, as a body, of the President-elect and Commissioners-designate. Parliament shall decide by a majority of the votes cast, by roll call. It may defer the vote until the following sitting. 2. The following arrangements shall apply in the event of a change in the composition of the Commission or a substantial reallocation of portfolios during its term of office: (a) When a vacancy caused by resignation, compulsory retirement or death is to be filled, Parliament, acting with dispatch, shall invite the Commissioner-designate to participate in a hearing under the same conditions as those laid down in paragraph 1. (b) In the event of the accession of a new Member State , Parliament shall invite the Commissioner-designate to participate in a hearing under the same conditions as those laid down in paragraph 1. (c) In the event of a substantial change of portfolios, the Commissioners affected shall be invited to appear before the committees concerned before taking up their new responsibilities. By way of derogation from the procedure laid down in Paragraph 1(c), third subparagraph, when the vote in plenary concerns the appointment of a single Commissioner, the vote shall be by secret ballot. (This amendment partly reproduces the wording of the European Parliament resolution on guidelines for the approval of the Commission – OJ C 285 E, 22.11.2006, p. 137) Justification By way of innovation, it proposes a vote by secret ballot (1) at the committee stage of the approval process when the committee cannot otherwise reach an agreement (para. 1(c)); and (2) when the plenary decides on the appointment of a single Commissioner (para. 2(c)). Further, there is now no explicit time limit for the duration of the hearings (para. 1(b)). RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE Date adopted 27.5.2008 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 24 Members present for the final vote Jim Allister, Richard Corbett, Brian Crowley, Hanne Dahl, Andrew Duff, Ingo Friedrich, Sylvia-Yvonne Kaufmann, Timothy Kirkhope, Jo Leinen, Íñigo Méndez de Vigo, Ashley Mote, Borut Pahor, Rihards Pīks, József Szájer, Johannes Voggenhuber Substitute(s) present for the final vote Graham Booth, Costas Botopoulos, Klaus Hänsch, György Schöpflin, Mauro Zani Substitute(s) under Rule 178(2) present for the final vote Ingeborg Gräßle, Sepp Kusstatscher, Michael Henry Nattrass, Renate Weber