prohibiting them from abusing a dominant market position. At the same time, it seeks to preserve a level playing field for producers by prohibiting state aid except for ‘horizontal’ aid (which helps all businesses to implement a given policy, for example staff training). The Commission must be commended for successfully pursuing its objectives by boldly applying the instruments at its disposal. 2001 showed a marked decline in the number of cases considered, accompanied by a sharp rise in the number of fines imposed, which suggests that, now that most players have understood that the Commission means business, all that remains is to punish the most persistent offenders. However, the time has come for both theory and practice to be fine-tuned. (1) Concentration is not necessarily synonymous with abuse. The Luxembourg Court, in quashing the Commission's decision to prohibit a merger between Airtours and First Choice, provided a timely reminder that oligopoly may yet be open to challenge, particularly if it is operating in a narrow segment of the market and one that is similar to others. This should not be construed as a withdrawal of support for the Commission but as a call for it to present more convincing arguments. Conversely, in sectors where there is very little concentration, customary rules may apply which guarantee excessive profit margins. It is important, therefore, to define the relationship between concentration per se and abuse. (2) Residents are not just consumers. Even as a consumer, a resident’s main concern is that a service should exist (even if it is rather expensive). However, competition, by making it impossible to recoup substantial investment, can prevent a service from being introduced. Sometimes, therefore, the State has to organise the establishment of a monopoly: this happened years ago in the case of the railways, and the fact that it has been forgotten now appears to be jeopardising the introduction of UMTS and could threaten the survival of high-quality media. More generally, certain services involving individual and social rights recognised in international treaties (including European Union treaties and the Charter of Fundamental Rights) presuppose the setting up, and strict regulation, of ‘universal services’ and ‘general-interest services’, sometimes accompanied by on-going subsidies to ensure their continued operation. These services, which require complex arrangements between public bodies involving complicated redistribution mechanisms and implicit pacts relying on the public-spiritedness of the workforce and the good will of the public, cannot be subject to abstract competition rules but must be governed by locally and democratically imposed rules. Similarly, socio-economic guidelines laid down at European level, such as the Lisbon Conclusions, justify the policy of applying state aid ‘horizontally’ to all undertakings. However, such guidelines must be adhered to strictly: for example, allocating quotas of emission rights free of charge on the grounds of ‘acquired rights’ is, by definition, a form of state aid aimed at existing undertakings, and is completely incompatible with the underlying policy. It would be better to auction such quotas and simultaneously assist all undertakings to limit their pollution emissions. The recent decisions of the Commission on the taking back into