to its position at first reading Texts adopted, 17.6.2008, P6_TA(2008)0285 . on the Commission proposal to Parliament and the Council ( COM(2007)0194 ), – having regard to Article 251(2) of the EC Treaty, – having regard to Rule 67 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the recommendation for second reading of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety ( A6‑0048/2009 ), 1. Approves the common position; 2. Notes that the act is adopted in accordance with the common position; 3. Instructs its President to sign the act with the President of the Council pursuant to Article 254(1) of the EC Treaty; 4. Instructs its Secretary-General to sign the act, once it has been verified that all the procedures have been duly completed, and, in agreement with the Secretary-General of the Council, to have it published in the Official Journal of the European Union; 5. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Aim The aim of the Commission proposal is to limit the exposure of consumers to pharmacologically active substances intended for use in veterinary medicinal products for food producing animals as well as residues thereof in foodstuffs of animal origin. This includes foodstuffs imported from third countries .The intention of new legislation was not to compromise but rather to enhance the availability of veterinary medicinal products in the EU which continues to be a problem for many veterinary practitioners. Finally, and in accordance with the principles of better regulation, the readability and clarity of the existing legislation should be improved. Procedure Whereas the European Parliament was able to reach a consensus with relative ease and speed based upon the report adopted in the Environment Committee, Council required considerable internal deliberation under the Portuguese and Slovene Presidencies and was only able to conclude its Common Position under the French Presidency in the second half of 2008. This was the result of a series of informal trilogues with the Council and the Commission which were concluded in October 2008. The Common Position text approved on the 18 December 2008 by the Council, and announced in the European Parliament on 15 January 2009, fully reflects the compromise achieved through negotiation between the three institutions. This codecision file can therefore be concluded as an early second reading agreement by a vote on the compromise package, as agreed in the informal trilogue and reflected in the Common Position text, in the Environment Committee and subsequently the Plenary. Key issues The key points addressed in the new text are as follows: - reference points for action : this is now defined as the level of a residue of a pharmacologically active substance, established for control reasons in the case of certain substances for which a maximum residue limit has not been laid down in accordance with this Regulation. In addition, Parliament introduced a new Article on implementing reference points for action. The reference points for action shall be reviewed in the light of any new data concerning the protection of human health and the food