trend towards safer vehicles and provide a loophole which can undermine the achievement of the purposes of this Directive. Such exemptions should therefore not be permitted. Justification Road safety is a very serious matter where exemptions can mean life or death. Closing the loopholes is completely in line with the current Action Programme on Road Safety. Amendment 2 RECITAL 8 B (NEW) (8b) The provisions allowing side-facing seats with two point belts in certain classes of vehicle of categoy M 3 should be of temporary nature, pending the entry into force of Community legislation amending Directive 70/156/EEC on type approval and extending its scope to include buses of category M 3 . Amendment 3 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2 Article 3 a, paragraph 1 (Directive 74/408/EEC) (1) The installation of side-facing seats shall be prohibited on vehicles of categories M 1 , N 1 , M 2 (of class III or B) and M 3 (of class III or B). (1) The installation of side-facing seats shall be prohibited on vehicles of categories M 1 , N 1 , M 2 (of class III or B) and M 3 (of class III or B). This prohibition shall not extend to coaches of category M 3 (class III or B) of a technically permissible maximum laden weight exceeding 10 tonnes in which side-facing seats are grouped together at the rear of the vehicle to form an integrated saloon of up to 10 seats. Such side-facing seats shall be fitted with, at least, a head-restraint and a two-point belt with retractor, type-approved in accordance with Directive 76/115/EC. This exemption shall have effect for 5 years from the date of adoption of this Directive. It may be extended if reliable accident statistics are available and there has been further development of safety belt systems. Amendment 4 ARTICLE 1, POINT 2 A (new) Article 5 a (new) (Directive 74/408/EEC) 2a) The following Article shall be inserted: 'Article 5a Exemptions from the provisions of this Directive granted pursuant to Articles 1 and 8 of Directive 70/156/EEC shall not be granted.'. Justification Road safety is a very serious matter where exemptions can mean as much as life or death. Closing the loopholes is completely in line with the current Action Programme on Road Safety. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The Commission proposal and the common position The Community legislation in force currently requires only passenger cars to be fitted with safety belts. The installation of safety belts with additional protection features such as restraint systems, anchorages and head restraints is governed at European level by Directives 77/541/EEC, 76/115/EEC and 74/408/EEC. The proposal addressed in this recommendation is part of a package (COM (2003) 361, 362 and 363) to amend these three directives, making it compulsory for vehicles other than passenger cars to be equipped with safety belts. For technical reasons, the three directives proposed must enter into force at the same time. In addition to the main issue of equipping vehicles with safety belt systems, the Commission has also included in the proposal in question a provision prohibiting the installation of side-facing