force by the police against demonstrators protesting after the presidential elections held on 2 March, which were won by Dmitry Medvedev, and urge the Russian authorities to observe democratic values and the rule of law. According to the resolution, democracy has been weakened in Russia through measures such as government control of the media and new restrictions on the right to organise public demonstrations. Increased pressure was put on the media, opposition groups and non-governmental organisations in the run-up to the elections. On 3 March 2008 ‘Other Russia’, a coalition of opposition parties, organised a ‘March of Dissent’ to protest against the elections. The authorities refused to authorise the protest but ‘Other Russia’ decided to go ahead with the march. Several protesters were arrested as riot police and militias wearing helmets and carrying riot shields crushed the rally in Turgenevskaya Square in central Moscow, and opposition leaders were detained. Use of force against demonstrators condemned In its resolution, the European Parliament "condemns the disproportionate use of force by police and riot police and militias against the demonstrators on 3 March 2008 in Moscow, and calls on the authorities to investigate the incidents and to bring those responsible to justice". It also "calls for the immediate release of all those demonstrators who are still detained". In addition, it deplores the "illegal" treatment of opposition candidates" and "regrets the failure to use the recent election to strengthen democracy and the rule of law in Russia". MEPs also regret that the Russian authorities regarded the intended monitoring mission of the OSCE/ODIR as an intrusion into internal affairs. The resolution voices "strong support for the important work of these missions" and "reminds Russia of its commitments and responsibilities as a member of the OSCE and of the Council of Europe, including the right of association and the right to peaceful demonstrations". A test for President Medvedev's commitment to the rule of law? Parliament does welcome the stated commitment by the newly elected President of Russia to guarantee the rule of law and democracy. In this context, it calls on him to review the treatment of imprisoned public figures (among them Mihail Khodorkovsky and Platon Lebedev), "whose imprisonment has been assessed by most observers as having been politically motivated". It also urges the Council and Member States to make Russia's full compliance with judgments of the European Court of Human Rights a key priority at all levels of dialogue with Russia. Lastly, the EP calls on the new Russian president and government to create together with the European Union "the necessary conditions for a rapid start of the negotiations on a new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement". But it again stresses that "the rule of law, democracy and human rights must be an important part of any future agreement". Death sentence on Afghan journalist Perwiz Kambakhsh Perwiz Kambakhsh, a journalist in Afghanistan, is under a death sentence for circulating an article on women's rights in Islam. The European Parliament, reaffirming its opposition to the death penalty in general, calls for his execution to be prevented and also for