of refugee flows, but calls on the Commission to step up the existing aid in Afghanistan and the neighbouring countries; 24. Urges the EU and the United Nations to urgently carry out adequate humanitarian aid to cope with the massive exodus of Afghan refugees who seek a safe haven in Pakistan, Iran and Tadjikistan; 4. WORLD ECONOMIC PROSPECTS 25. Urges the European Central Bank to play a central role in dealing with the shocks affecting European economics as they attempt to restore confidence; 26. Welcomes the European Council's commitment to respect the framework, rules and application in full of the stability and growth pact; 27. Congratulates the Belgian Presidency on its diplomatic initiative in sending a ministerial troika mission to present the European Union's position to certain partners, particularly in the Middle East, and encourages it to give greater impetus to such initiatives in the future; II. ON THE PREPARATIONS OF THE GHENT EUROPEAN COUNCIL 1. INTRODUCTION OF THE EURO A. whereas the introduction of euro notes and coins is an important symbol of European integration and further will improve the functioning of the single European market, 1. Urges eurozone Member States to make final, major efforts to provide even more information to the citizens about the changeover to the euro with advice on how they, through their own actions, best can help making the changeover smooth; 2. Recommends a continued study and dissemination of ‘best practice’ in the different euro countries, so as to deal with ATMs, opening hours, piggy banks, hoarded money, sales and other practical issues in the most efficient way; 3. Stresses that the euro will facilitate cross-border comparison of prices, increase competition and overall encourage industry to improve quality and pressure prices; calls nevertheless on both the private and public sector not to abuse people's lack of experience of the euro in the initial phase by introducing ‘hidden’ prices; 2. ENLARGEMENT - having regard to its resolution on the enlargement of the European Union adopted in September 2001 ( B5-0538/2001 ), A. whereas the enlargement process will benefit the applicant countries as well as the Member States of the European Union and both sides should seize this historic opportunity to ensure Europe's long-term stability, security and prosperity; 1. Reiterates its calls on the Commission and the governments of the Member States and the candidate countries to do everything in their power to ensure that the prospect of citizens of the candidate countries participating in the 2004 European elections becomes a reality; considers that the accession treaties must be concluded on a case by case basis reflecting the progress made by each of the candidate countries, in order that the European Union's historic commitments may be fulfilled; 2. Invites both Member States and candidate countries to intensify the public information campaign on Enlargement in order to increase the awareness of Europe's citizens about the advantages and obligations of EU membership; 3. CENTRAL AFRICA 1. Reaffirms the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and of all states in the region; 2. Considers