Management Board, acting on a proposal from the Executive Director, shall also devise a programme whereby competent and independent organisations in the field of food safety in the EEA, EFTA countries and the candidate countries may cooperate and network with the Authority. Such bodies and organisations may be entrusted from time to time with certain scientific and technical tasks as the Authority sees fit. Amendment 135 Article 36, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 1. The members of the Management Board and the members of the Advisory Forum shall undertake to act independently in the public interest. 1. The members of the Management Board, the members of the Advisory Forum and the Executive Director shall undertake to act independently in the public interest. Amendment 136 Article 36, paragraph 3 3. The members of the Management Board, the members of the Advisory Forum, the members of the Scientific Committee and the Scientific Panels, as well as external experts participating in their working groups shall declare at each meeting any special interests which might be considered prejudicial to their independence in relation to the items on the agenda. 3. The members of the Management Board, the Executive Director, the members of the Advisory Forum, the members of the Scientific Committee and the Scientific Panels, as well as external experts participating in their working groups shall declare at each meeting any special interests which might be considered prejudicial to their independence in relation to the items on the agenda. Amendment 137 Article 37, paragraph 1, introduction 1. The Authority shall ensure that it carries out its activities with a high level of transparency. It shall make public: 1. The Authority shall ensure that it carries out its activities with a high level of transparency. It shall make public without delay : Amendment 138 Article 37, paragraph 1, point (-a) (new) (-a) agendas and minutes of the Scientific Committee and the Scientific Panels; Amendment 139 Article 37, paragraph 1, point (a) (a) the opinions of the Scientific Committee and the Scientific Panels as soon as possible after adoption, minority opinions always being included; (a) the opinions of the Scientific Committee and the Scientific Panels immediately after adoption, minority opinions always being included; Amendment 140 Article 37, paragraph 1, point (b) (b) the annual declarations of interest made by members of the Management Board, members of the Advisory Forum and members of the Scientific Committee and Scientific Panels, as well as the declarations of interest made in relation to items on the agendas of meetings; (b) the annual declarations of interest made by members of the Management Board, the Executive Director , members of the Advisory Forum and members of the Scientific Committee and Scientific Panels, as well as the declarations of interest made in relation to items on the agendas of meetings; Amendment 141 Article 37, paragraph 1, point (b a) (new) (ba) without prejudice to Articles 38 and 40, the information on which its opinions are based; Amendment 142 Article 37, paragraph 1, point (d a) (new) (da) the annual programme of work and the multiannual programme.