European Union agreements OJ C290 E, 29.11.2006, p. 107. , – having regard to Rules 114(3) and 83(5) of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on International Trade ( A6‑0028/2009 ), A. whereas Mexico and the EU share a set of fundamental values, common principles and historical and cultural links, B. whereas respect for democratic principles and human rights, as enshrined in the democracy clause, are an essential element of both the Strategic Partnership and the Global Agreement, and must be respected by both parties, C. whereas Mexico is increasingly consolidating its political weight on the international stage, as is confirmed at world level by its recent nomination as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council (for 2009-2010), and at regional level by its presidency of the Pro-Tempore Secretariat of the Rio Group (for 2008-2010), D. whereas it is important that the EU recognises Mexico's contribution to the multilateral system, given that multilateralism is one of the basic principles which both parties, Mexico and the EU, have undertaken to promote in the international sphere, E. whereas Mexico has embarked on a scheme of structural reforms in strategic sectors and has become the world's tenth-largest economy, a member of the G-20 and of the G-5 (Brazil, China, India, South Africa and Mexico), and, furthermore, the only Latin American member of the OECD, F. whereas Mexico has a population of over 100 m, with a marked preponderance of youth given that 45% of Mexicans are aged under 20, and occupies an important geostrategic position as a bridge both between North and South America and between the Caribbean and the Pacific, G. whereas the EU-Mexico Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement (the 'Global Agreement') signed on 8 December 1997 has three pillars: political dialogue; the gradual creation of a free-trade area; and cooperation; whereas, in addition, since the agreement came into force in 2000 relations between the two sides have been marked by deepening and consolidation, both politically and in the trade and cooperation fields, H. whereas at the Lima Summit (May 2008) the EU and Mexico underlined the positive development in trade and investment flows under the Association Agreement, I. whereas, both bilaterally and in the framework of the Global Agreement, the EU and Mexico have strengthened their contacts at all levels and as regards all institutions, notably in the parliamentary field and in the context of the EU-Mexico Joint Parliamentary Committee and the Euro-Latin American Parliamentary Assembly, J. whereas the proposal for a Strategic Partnership comes at a time of international financial and economic crisis, and there is a risk of this crisis affecting the economic and social balance of the bilateral relationship, K. whereas the deepening of EU-Mexico relations can help enhance the consensus between the EU and its Latin American partners on regional and global issues, facilitating the joint promotion of their shared interests and values in international and regional forums, L. whereas the Strategic Partnership needs to be conceived as marking a