Reply (14 January 2008) The EU is deeply concerned about the case of Mr Sina Paymard, who was sentenced to death for a crime he committed when he was 16 years old. A EU Presidency statement was issued on the 17 July, immediately after news of the imminent execution of Sina Paymard were received. An EU demarche was also carried out in Tehran in September 2007 to reiterate EU’s concern and call on Iran to cancel the death sentence against Mr Sina Paymard, taking into consideration alternative sentences for juvenile offenders. The Iranian authorities replied that they were confident that it would be possible to avoid executing Mr Sina Paymard. Another demarche was carried out in Tehran on 10 October, on the occasion of the international day against the death penalty, to raise especifically juvenile justice in Iran. The EU has repeatedly recalled the Islamic Republic of Iran’s international commitments, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, both clearly prohibiting the execution of minors or people who have been convicted of crimes committed while they were minors. The EU also considered that this sentence violated Iran's moratoria on juvenile executions and amputations. The EU constantly reiterates to the Islamic Republic of Iran the EU's longstanding position against the death penalty in all circumstances and recalls that any miscarriage or failure of justice in the application of capital punishment represents the irreparable and irreversible loss of human life. The EU will continue to urge the Islamic Republic of Iran to halt all sentences of minors or people who have been convicted of crimes committed while they were minors and to have the cases reviewed by the appropriate bodies taking into account all facts and witnesses, in compliance with both Islamic Republic of Iran’s domestic law and international obligations, namely Article 14, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which deal with the right to a fair trial. Despite the cancellation by Iran of the EU‑Iran human rights dialogue which was due for December 2006, the EU will continue to raise urgent human-rights issues, both directly with Iranian authorities and publicly.