of Directive 83/349/EEC or Article 31 of Directive 85/611/EEC or any other task prescribed by law, shall have a duty to report promptly to the competent authorities any fact or decision concerning that undertaking of which that person has become aware while carrying out that task and which is liable to: a) constitute a material breach of the laws, regulations or administrative provisions which lay down the conditions governing authorisation or which specifically govern pursuit of the activities of investment firms; b) affect the continuous functioning of the investment firm; c) lead to refusal to certify the accounts or to the expression of reservations. That person shall also have a duty to report any facts and decisions of which the person becomes aware in the course of carrying out one of the tasks referred to in the first subparagraph in an undertaking having close links resulting from a control relationship with the investment firm within which he is carrying out that task. 2. The disclosure in good faith to the competent authorities, by persons authorised within the meaning of Directive 84/253/EEC, of any fact or decision referred to in paragraph 1 shall not constitute a breach of any contractual or legal restriction on disclosure of information and shall not involve such persons in liability of any kind. Chapter II Cooperation between competent authorities of different Member States Article 53 Obligation to cooperate 1. Competent authorities of different Member States shall co-operate with each other whenever necessary for the purpose of carrying out their duties under this Directive, in the exercise of their powers under this Directive or national law. Competent authorities shall render assistance to competent authorities of other Member States. In particular, they shall exchange information and co-operate in any investigation activities. 2. Member States shall take the necessary administrative and organisational measures to facilitate the assistance provided for in paragraph 1. Competent authorities shall use their powers to the full for the purpose of cooperation, even in cases where the conduct under investigation does not constitute an infringement of any regulation in force in that Member State. 3. Where a competent authority is convinced that acts contrary to the provisions of this Directive, carried out by entities not subject to its supervision, are being or have been carried out on the territory of another Member State, it shall notify this in as specific a manner as possible to the competent authority of the other Member State. The latter authority shall take appropriate action. It shall inform the notifying competent authority of the outcome of the action and, to the extent possible, of significant interim developments. Article 54 Cooperation in investigations 1. A competent authority of one Member State may request the co-operation of the competent authority of another Member State for an on-the-spot verification or in an investigation. Competent authorities which receive such requests shall, within the framework of their powers, act upon them by: a) carrying out the verifications themselves; b) allowing the authorities who have requested them to carry them out; or c) allowing auditors or experts to