COM(2005)0620 ) and the Commission's memorandum of 1 December 2005 entitled "Financing of terrorism: new guidelines for Member States on national level coordination structures and vulnerabilities of the non-profit sector" (MEMO/05/460), – having regard to its Recommendation of 7 June 2005 to the European Council and the Council on the EU anti-terrorism Action Plan OJ C 124 E, 25.5.2006, p. 241. , – having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the opinions of the Committee on Development and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs ( A6-0441/2006 ), A. whereas international terrorism (including its ideology) now constitutes one of the greatest threats to security, peace, stability and the democratic values of the international community and in particular a direct threat to European citizens, EU Member States, democracy and the rule of law, values on which the European Union is founded, B. conscious of the diverse nature of terrorism, of the organisations which practise it and of the States and non-state agents which sponsor it, finance it and practise it for their own ends; conscious also of the emerging and unpredictable nature of a phenomenon which presupposes an obvious sense of opportunity (particularly in the case of the terrorism practised by radical groups which claim to be defending Islam) and the need for the European Union to pursue a proactive (and not just a reactive) policy in order to combat it, C. whereas Europe, from being mainly a platform for logistical support, has turned into a major target of planned attacks, D. whereas, pursuant to the ESS, the fight against terrorism constitutes a priority for the European Union and a key element in its external action, E. whereas the pursuit of security beyond the EU's borders should be guided by the principles of the human security doctrine, namely the primacy of human rights, the imperatives of multilateralism, a bottom-up approach based on knowledge of the local situation, a regional focus and the establishment of a clear and legitimate political authority, F. whereas the European Union has its own strategy for combating terrorism which must be integrated in a multilateral strategy and be firmly based on the unconditional respect of human rights and of the principles underlying states governed by the rule of law, whereas terrorism constitutes precisely a direct attack on both, and whereas any action outside that framework constitutes a failure of democracy, G. whereas terrorism is always criminal and unjustifiable, in any circumstance, wherever and by whomsoever it is practised, and whereas it may never be used in the pursuit of political objectives, H. whereas the victims of terrorism are a moral reference point for our societies and for democracy and whereas the public authorities should listen to their voice and ensure that they are taken into account whenever decisions are taken with a view to combating those who made them unwilling protagonists, I. whereas terrorist groups exploit extreme poverty, the failure to uphold human rights and constitutional government, collective frustration, the lack