all Agencies to increasingly use SMART objectives which should lead to more realistic planning and implementation of goals; 19. Agrees with the Court of Auditors that the Commission also bears responsibility for the (financial) management of the Agencies; therefore, urges the Commission to monitor and where necessary direct and help the management of the different Agencies, especially in relation to the proper application of tender procedures, transparency of recruitment procedures, sound financial management (underspending and overbudgeting) and most importantly the proper application of the rules concerning the internal control framework; 20. Considers that the Agencies' work programmes should express their contributions in operational and measurable terms and that due consideration should be given to the Commission's Internal Control Standards; Specific points 21. Notes that the commitment rate for the appropriations for the financial year is high (practically 100 % for the Foundation's own activities) and draws the Foundation's attention to the high rate (over 40 %) of carry-overs of commitments for operating activities (Title III); is particularly concerned as a similar situation prevails for the implementation of MEDA and Tempus activities; invites the Foundation to better ensure its programming; 22. Considers the Foundation to be a source of important information and of exchange of experience for the partner countries of the European Union and for all EU institutions; 23. Points out that training programmes and the improvement thereof form the basis for the development and expansion of democracy; consequently encourages the Foundation to step up its activities in partner countries where major obstacles stand in the way of the progress of democracy; 24. Criticises the fact that, as in previous years and in infringement of its financial regulation, the Foundation only published a summary of its budget in the Official Journal; 25. Invites the Foundation to present a new budget nomenclature which corresponds better to the Foundation's reality and which could avoid constant transfers; invites the Foundation to improve coordination between the financial unit and the operational units, which should lead to a decrease in transfers which are necessary; 26. Invites the Foundation to improve compliance with existing rules for final accounts; 27. Deplores the fact that the Foundation has still not finished introducing its system of internal control and the fact that at the end of 2005 there was no analysis of operational risks and ex post checks and that at the same time the accounting officer had not yet validated the accounts information and inventory systems; 28. Welcomes the fact that the Foundation has continued to step up its work on the development of human resources, thus enabling partner countries to make better use of its experience when tackling the reform of their training and further training systems; 29. Insists that the Foundation has to overcome shortcomings in the field of the documentation of staff selection procedures.