procedures for the adoption of acts which are legally binding in or for the Member States, should, subject to Articles 4 and 9, be made directly accessible. 3. Where possible, other documents, notably documents relating to the development of policy or strategy, should be made directly accessible. 4. Where direct access is not given through the register, the register shall as far as possible indicate where the document is located. Article 13 Publication in the Official Journal 1. In addition to the acts referred to in Article 254(1) and (2) of the EC Treaty and the first paragraph of Article 163 of the Euratom Treaty, the following documents shall, subject to Articles 4 and 9 of this Regulation, be published in the Official Journal: (a) Commission proposals; (b) common positions adopted by the Council in accordance with the procedures referred to in Articles 251 and 252 of the EC Treaty and the reasons underlying those common positions, as well as the European Parliament's positions in these procedures; (c) framework decisions and decisions referred to in Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (d) conventions established by the Council in accordance with Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (e) conventions signed between Member States on the basis of Article 293 of the EC Treaty; (f) international agreements concluded by the Community or in accordance with Article 24 of the EU Treaty. 2. As far as possible, the following documents shall be published in the Official Journal: (a) initiatives presented to the Council by a Member State pursuant to Article 67(1) of the EC Treaty or pursuant to Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (b) common positions referred to in Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (c) directives other than those referred to in Article 254(1) and (2) of the EC Treaty, decisions other than those referred to in Article 254(1) of the EC Treaty, recommendations and opinions. 3. Each institution may in its rules of procedure establish which further documents shall be published in the Official Journal. Article 14 Information 1. Each institution shall take the requisite measures to inform the public of the rights they enjoy under this Regulation. 2. The Member States shall cooperate with the institutions in providing information to the citizens. Article 15 Administrative practice in the institutions 1. The institutions shall develop good administrative practices in order to facilitate the exercise of the right of access guaranteed by this Regulation. 2. The institutions shall establish an interinstitutional committee to examine best practice, address possible conflicts and discuss future developments on public access to documents. Article 16 Reproduction of documents This Regulation shall be without prejudice to any existing rules on copyright which may limit a third party's right to reproduce or exploit released documents. Article 17 Reports 1. Each institution shall publish annually a report for the preceding year including the number of cases in which the institution refused to grant access to documents, the reasons for such refusals and the number of sensitive documents not recorded in the register. 2. At the latest by 31 January 2004, the