Answer given by Ms Damanaki on behalf of the Commission (14 January 2011) The Commission agrees with the Honourable Member that the issue of open registers and flags of convenience is of great concern. It is therefore pleased to see that Sierra Leone has decided to cancel its agreement with the company empowered to manage its open register. This is an important step and will help to further eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. While the EU cannot prohibit EU vessel owners to reflag their vessel to a third country flag, Regulation (EC) No 1005/2008 OJ L 286, 29.10.2008. (the ‘IUU Regulation’) provides for measures to discourage reflagging to such flags of convenience and to ensure coherent and effective control and enforcement by Member States and close cooperation amongst them and with third countries in this respect. The Commission has taken several practical actions to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. For example, through the mutual assistance system, the Commission endeavours to draw the attention of Member States to situations at risk in order to better orient verification and inspections. In this framework, the Commission has already requested Member States to carry out enquiries, in particular to obtain the identification of European beneficial owners of vessels flagged to ‘flag of convenience’ countries. The IUU Regulation is regularly discussed with the Member States at the Fisheries Control Expert Groups to review compliance and to tow on issues that need to be addressed. At recent meetings, the Commission for example underlined that nationals from Member States owning vessels registered under flags of convenience may take advantage of a weaker monitoring environment in most of these countries. The Commission took this opportunity to remind the Member States of their obligation to cooperate and take all appropriate measures to identify and properly sanction nationals supporting or engaged in IUU fishing. At the meeting of 7 December 2010, the Commission reiterated the need to report on the actual measures and actions taken on these matters by Member States. Nevertheless, it should be noted that implementation of the IUU Regulation is still at an early stage. The Commission will continue to closely monitor the application of these provisions and of measures taken and communicated to the Commission by Member States concerning the ongoing cases. In case of non-compliance by Member States, the Commission will ensure follow-up by applying the tools available to it.