does not contest the decision rendered in absentia . ? b.2 the person, after being personally served with the decision and being expressly informed, in a language which he or she understood, about the right to a retrial or to an appeal, in which he or she would have the right to participate, at which the merits of the case, including fresh evidence, would be (re)examined and which could lead to the original decision being quashed , expressly stated that he or she did not contest the decision. Describe when and how the person expressly stated that he or she does not contest the decision rendered in absentia : Describe when the person was served with the decision, how he or she was informed about his/her right to a retrial or to an appeal and when and how the person expressly stated that he or she did not contest the decision: ………………………………………… OR ………………………………………… OR Amendment 56 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 5 – point 3 Framework Decision 2008/.../JHA Annex – box k – point 1 - subpoint b.3 ? b.3 the person was served with the decision rendered in absentia on … (day/month/year) and was entitled to a retrial in the issuing State under the following conditions: ? b.3 the person was personally served with the decision following a trial at which the person concerned did not appear in person on … (day/month/year) and was entitled to a retrial or to an appeal in the issuing State under the following conditions: – the person was expressly informed about the right to a retrial and to be present at that trial ; and - the person was expressly informed, in a language which he or she understood , about the right to a retrial or to an appeal , in which he or she would have the right to participate, at which the merits of the case, including fresh evidence, would be (re)examined and which could lead to the original decision being quashed, and – after being informed of this right, the person had … days to request a retrial and he or she did not request it during this period. - after being informed of that right, the person had ... days to request a retrial or an appeal and he or she did not make such a request during that period. Amendment 57 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 5 a (new) Article 5a Amendments to Framework Decision 2008/.../JHA Framework Decision 2008/.../JHA is hereby amended as follows: "1) in Article [9(1)], point [h] shall be replaced by the following: (h) according to the certificate provided for in Article [6], the decision was rendered following a trial at which the person concerned did not appear in person, unless