of the major obstacles and difficulties encountered in this respect, mainly by drawing from oral evidence presented to the committee by Commission representatives and academic experts. Particular emphasis is laid on infringement procedure as the main tool under Community law to remedy incorrect implementation of EU legislation by the Member States. The committee then identifies certain systematic and other weaknesses in the Commission's approach to monitoring implementation. This is based also on the analysis of the Commission's performance in monitoring the implementation of the Third Life Directive in relation to Equitable Life, which is set out in Part II of this report. Finally, the committee emphasises the need for a more comprehensive approach to ensuring effective implementation of EU legislation and identifies a number of necessary elements of such an approach. The committee puts forward a number of recommendations on how to improve these perceived weaknesses. II. The implementation of EU legislation - general background 1. Terminology Before undertaking the analysis, it is necessary to clarify the terminology used in this report, particularly as the key terms and definitions, which are sometimes used and interpreted in different ways. For the purposes of this report and the EQUI committee's investigation, the definitions used, in line with the European Parliament's latest Resolutions on implementation of Community Law, are as follows: § Transposition: the process of transcribing EU law (e.g. a directive) into national legislation; § Application: the process of applying and enforcing transposed EU law on a day-to-day basis by the national authorities and/or regulators (also known sometimes as 'enforcement', see below); § Implementation: this wider concept encompasses both transposition and application. It is a requirement of Community law that EU legislation should be implemented in an effective, timely and proportionate manner (however, in some instances, it is used in a more restrictive manner, as a synonym for 'application'); § Implementing measures/provisions/rules: the laws, rules, regulations, fragments or articles of national law that give effect to EU law; § Enforcement: sometimes used also as a synonym for application but more frequently makes reference to the process of correcting or reversing the mis-application of national law, implying the existence of a malfunction or anomaly in the way national law is being applied, which must be corrected by the national authorities, if need be by coercive action. Having established these brief points of reference, we will analyse to what extent EU law creates obligations for Member States. The subsequent focus of this analysis is on Directives and not Regulations or other legal instruments, given that the former are the most common type of EU law and that the current investigation into the ELAS case hinges particularly on the implementation of a directive, the Third Life Directive Council Directive 92/96/EEC of 10 November 1992 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct life assurance and amending Directives 79/267/EEC and 90/619/EEC (third life assurance Directive) (OJ L 311, 14.11.1997, p.34). (3LD). 2. Directives and Member States’ obligations: ECJ jurisprudence Under Article 249 of the EC Treaty, directives are binding as to the result to