WRITTEN QUESTION E-0803/05 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (2 March 2005) Subject: Absence of cooperation over a period of more than ten years by authorities in the Republic of Croatia in shedding light on cases of persons who disappeared during the war of secession 1. Is the Commission aware that from 1991, during the years of hostilities in connection with the secession of the Republic of Croatia from the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, death squads sought to abduct and/or kill representatives of the old regime or of the Serbian minority in Croatia? 2. Is the Commission aware of the case of the victims in the north‑western city of Gospic in October 1991, among them Gojko Hinic, who worked for the Croatian police and who was kidnapped and killed the following day, probably by Mirko N. and Tihomir O., who were in the service of the then Croatian Government and who are also being held responsible for the wounding of French and Canadian soldiers taking part in a peace mission in 1993 in the so‑called Medak Pocket? 3. Does the Commission regard it as normal, in a democratic country founded on the rule of law, that after the bodies of the victims had been collected in 1992 by the Service for the Dead and Disappeared in Zagreb, efforts were not made to identify them, and that in the case of Gojko Hinic the blood sample taken from his mother for examination in connection with the trial against the perpetrators in Rijeka was never used for that purpose, and that the service responsible later denied that it had such a sample and has subsequently refused to give any further reply? 4. Is the Commission aware that in 2004 the President of Croatia wrote to the son of the victim, Mr Hinic, informing him that he was not empowered to do anything about this problem, and that the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice have not responded to requests to resolve this matter? 5. Could serious efforts to establish the truth about all of the missing persons be given equal weight in the context of EU accession negotiations with Croatia as the demand that Ante Gotovina be handed over to the UN tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia in The Hague?