a large-scale terrorist attack, where necessary through the Special Committee provided for in the above-mentioned Interinstitutional Agreement of 20 November 2002; 47. Considers the High Level Political Dialogue on Counter-Terrorism, which brings the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission together on a six-monthly basis, to be a good example of the possibilities available for the indispensable interinstitutional cooperation needed in the fight against terrorism; proposes that such meetings be held at least on a quarterly basis and that the European Parliament Delegation also include the chairmen of the permanent committees on the three main areas of external action (foreign affairs, international trade and development cooperation); 48. Asks for the reports drawn up by SitCen for the Council of the Union to be transmitted regularly to the European Parliament, if necessary pursuant to the modalities provided for in the above-mentioned Interinstitutional Agreement; 49. Considers it of fundamental importance that the European Parliament be closely involved in the mechanism for implementing the solidarity clause (the introduction of which was approved in the Declaration on Combating Terrorism), essentially in cases where the decisions adopted have implications as regards the ESDP; 50. Calls on the Commission and on the European Counter-Terrorism Coordinator to submit an annual report to the European Parliament on their activities in the fight against terrorism and to take due account of Parliament's observations and recommendations in that regard; 51. Calls on the Council anew to inform Parliament on the regular updating of Council Common Position 2001/931/CFSP of 27 December 2001 on the application of specific measures to combat terrorism OJ L 344, 28.12.2001, p. 93. (list of terrorist organisations and groups) and on developments since 2001; 52. Pledges to establish an enhanced dialogue with the national parliaments on the fight against terrorism with a view to guaranteeing joint parliamentary control of the activities of the various security and intelligence services, given that, in its capacity as representative of the peoples of the European Union, it is incumbent upon the European Parliament to exercise public and transparent control over the measures adopted by the Union in relation to the fight against terrorism, including the activities of the European Counter-Terrorism Coordinator and of the various bodies dedicated to that task; ° ° ° 53. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the European Council, the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the Council of Europe, the United Nations and its specialised agencies.