points in time ELAS might not have had sound administrative and accounting procedures nor adequate internal control mechanisms, because no action was taken to solve a serious problem that arose with the AA of ELAS. Mr. LAKE explains in H1 how in 1992, " Appointed Actuary Roy Ranson became CEO of ELAS without relinquishing the role of Appointed Actuary, which was clearly prejudicial to the interests of policyholders, but UK legislation did not provide for the removal of Mr Ranson ”. According to the evidence, the UK GAD (Government Actuary's Department) explicitly expressed its disapproval of this dual role but no action followed. Clive MAXWELL from HMT, under questioning during H4, rejects this claim, arguing that the 3LD does not mention the figure of the AA and that this is not therefore a matter for the Directive. However, another competing view claims the contrary, viz. that the fact that the Directive itself does not mention the figure of the AA is actually irrelevant because, once in place, the AA figure became part of the UK supervisory system which, as a whole, had to implement fully and correctly the provisions of Article 8 of the 3LD, both in terms of the letter and the aim of the text. The overall evidence received (see also section II.2. ‘Further evidence on transposition’) suggests that by not taking swift action on this matter, the UK regulator did not fulfil its obligation to require from ELAS sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms, as demanded explicitly by Article 8 of the 3LD. 3. Home/host exchange of information Another issue is whether other Member States (Ireland, Germany) ever considered that ELAS' activities might have had a negative effect on the company’s financial soundness, in which case they should have informed the UK authorities. Correspondence between regulators to which this committee has had access is examined in detail in Part IV (Redress issues). Article 10 - Accounting, prudential and statistical information supervisory powers (art. 23 of 1LD and 13 of CD) Summary of objectives Article 10 defines the type of information required from companies on their financial situation. They must render the returns and documents necessary for supervision on a periodic basis. Member States need to ensure that the competent authorities have the powers and means necessary for the supervision of assurance undertakings with head offices within their territories, including business carried on outside those territories. These powers and means must allow them to: a) make detailed enquiries, for example by gathering information or requiring the submission of documents, or carrying out on-the-spot investigations; b) take any measures that are appropriate and necessary to ensure that the business complies with the law and to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the assured persons; c) ensure that those measures are carried out, if need be by enforcement, or through judicial channels. Text of the article Article 10 Article 23 (2) and (3) of Directive 79/267/EEC shall be replaced by the following: '2. Member States shall require assurance undertakings with head offices within their