Financial Services Compensation Scheme ". However, Mr WEYER (H3) and Mr SCHÄFER (WE 10) informed the committee that the FSA refused to deal with complaints put forward by German policyholders and referred them back to the German regulator. " We have relevant correspondence of parties affected with the British supervisory authority ... in which the FSA to begin with mostly answers in English, which can sometimes be a problem. Apart from that, the FSA generally states that it is not responsible since the parties affected are German policyholders, in which case BaFin is responsible. We have called this the ping-pong process, and we can show in a number of cases that the FSA indeed referred cases back " (Mr WEYER, H3). Commenting on Mr WEYER's point, Mr BEVERLY from the Commission said that " things are clearly going wrong with what Mr Weyer referred to as the ping-pong procedure; that needs attention " (H3). Mr WEYER stressed that " the German insurance regulator applies the directive in such a way that it does not consider itself to be responsible and only regards itself as capable of acting in the field of so-called secondary legal supervision and otherwise refers everything on to the FSA " (H3). He added that " in this situation, in which according to our personal logic of course an approach to the FSA should naturally get a response, our experience was unfortunately an outright rejection of German policyholders by the FSA on the grounds that they were Germans and therefore the German regulatory system was responsible for them ". Mr WEYER stressed that " through our informal conversations with BaFin we have come to the firm view that the legal understanding of the FSA is quite incorrect " (H3). " Whether that amounts to the infringement of some directive provision or not, I would not like to judge ". We can only ascertain that at this point most of those affected, who are now staring poverty in the face, and whose financial circumstances are also associated with comparable health problems ... have run out of steam. They are no longer interested in whether an authority has formal responsibility or not. " The copies of correspondence between German policyholders the FSA, which were made available to the committee by German policyholders (WE 48, WE-CONF 1 and WE-CONF 10), concern two issues: Firstly, one policyholder complained that Equitable Life has decided that it will no longer publish its report and accounts as well as notice of their Annual General Meeting in German language as this would discriminate against and disadvantage non English-speaking policyholders. She had previously raised her concerns with the Society, who replied stating that the costs involved in translating these documents are, in its view, disproportionate to the benefits. The FSA replied that " in our view, your complaint relates to the way in which Equitable has conducted its business within Germany rather than to any aspect of the company's prudential or financial regulation. ... This means that it will be for German rules to specify what information you