used for years before there was regulation or surveillance of their use. Health concerns about the use of silicone–gel breast implants surfaced in the US and Canada in the 1980s, spreading to Europe in the 1990s. Since 1992 in the US silicone breast implants are only available for women with special medical needs who need breast reconstruction and are willing to become part of a clinical trial approved by the US Food and Drugs Administration (FDA). In Canada a moratorium on the marketing and use of silicone-gel filled breast implants was passed in 1992. Saline-filled breast implants are available. All EU member states – except France – have no restrictions on the use of silicone-gel breast implants. In France since 1992 silicone breast implants have been restricted. In 1995, all breast implants except saline-filled implants were banned. Surgeons must apply for exemptions in the case of specific medical needs (reconstruction after mastectomy) for silicone implants. The focus on silicone-gel implants since the 1990s have led to many different epidemiological studies that have consistently showed no evidence of serious risk for major diseases. However, as the studies have started so recently, most cannot look at long-term effects, have mainly focused on links with certain systemic diseases, especially cancer and connective tissue diseases, and have not always controlled for the different types of implants. Hundreds of different types have been marketed and used since they were introduced in 1962. Alongside the medical studies a significant body of women claimed to be experiencing symptoms which they think are linked with their implants. However, the STOA report presented to the European Parliament confirmed the absence of scientific evidence on a link between disease and silicone gel breast implants. It noted, however, that problems do occur, mainly because of the design and characteristics of the product. In subsequent debates between the Commission, European Parliament and national authorities, a widely accepted consensus was generated in favour of a Community wide policy under which the present legal framework would be maintained, but critical specific measures would be introduced to increase and improve information for patients, tracking and surveillance, quality control and assurance, and key research. The present Communication gives a follow-up to this consensus and sets out the various measures both at Community and at national level that should be taken to address the issues raised. These relate to the requirements in relation to breast implants themselves and accompanying measures, not directly related to Community legislation on breast implants, but necessary to provide an appropriate health protection. The proposed measures can be summarised as follows:- Classification of Breast Implants Breast implants are covered by Directive 93/42/EEC on medical devices OJ L 169, 12.7.1993. as modified by Directives 98/79/EC OJ L 331, 7.12.1998. and 2000/70/EC OJ L 313, 13.12.2000. , hereafter the Directive. The Directive contains the essential requirements, in terms of quality and safety, which medical devices like breast implants have to meet, in order to ensure a high level of health protection. These essential requirements are supported by harmonised standards, presenting technical options to meet those essential requirements.