the end of the budget year the Bureau shall approve the beneficiary political party’s final activity report and final financial statement. 4. Under the terms and conditions laid down in European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 the Bureau may grant technical assistance to political parties at European level in accordance with their proposals. The Bureau may delegate specific types of decisions to grant technical assistance to the Secretary-General. 5. In all the cases set out in the above paragraphs the Bureau shall act on the basis of a proposal from the Secretary-General. Except in the cases set out in paragraphs 1 and 4 the Bureau shall, before taking a decision, hear the representatives of the political party concerned. The Bureau may at any time consult the Conference of Presidents. 6. Where Parliament - following verification - establishes that a political party at European level has ceased to observe the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, the Bureau shall decide that that political party shall be excluded from funding. Rule 200 Powers and responsibilities of the committee responsible and of Parliament’s plenary 1. At the request of one-quarter of Parliament’s Members representing at least three political groups, the President, following an exchange of views within the Conference of Presidents, shall call upon the committee responsible to verify whether or not a political party at European level is continuing to observe (in particular in its programme and in its activities) the principles upon which the European Union is founded, namely the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law. 2. Before submitting a proposal for a decision to Parliament, the committee responsible shall hear the representatives of the political party concerned and it shall ask for and consider the opinion of a committee of independent eminent persons, pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 on the regulations governing political parties at European level and the rules regarding their funding. 3. Parliament shall vote (by a majority of the votes cast) on the proposal for a decision establishing that the political party concerned either does or does not observe the principles set out in paragraph 1. No amendment may be tabled. In either case, if the proposal for a decision does not secure a majority, a decision to the contrary will be deemed to have been adopted. 4. Parliament’s decision shall apply with effect from the day upon which the request referred to in paragraph 1 was tabled. 5. The President shall represent Parliament on the committee of independent eminent persons. 6. The committee responsible shall draw up the report provided for in European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 on the application of that Regulation and the activities funded, and shall submit it in plenary. TITLE XII APPLICATION AND AMENDMENT OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE Rule 201 Application of the Rules of Procedure 1. Should doubt arise over the application or interpretation