technical specifications should be worked out at an expert level and be regularly adapted to technical developments. he power to adopt detailed technical specifications for online collection systems should therefore be delegated to the Commission . Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10a) The statements of support should be collected in a way that is citizen-friendly and which incorporates the necessary safeguards for data protection. At the same time, it should not impose an excessive burden on the organisers. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Recital 11 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (11) It is appropriate for Member States to verify the conformity of online collection systems with the requirements of this Regulation. deleted Justification Since the Commission should set up and manage a central website, the verification of conformity by Member States is no longer required. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Recital 12 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (12) It is appropriate to ensure that statements of support for a citizens' initiative are collected within a specific time-limit. In order to ensure that proposed citizens' initiatives remain relevant, whilst taking account of the complexity of collecting statements of support across the European Union, that time-limit should not be longer than 12 months from the date of registration of the proposed initiative. (12) It is appropriate to ensure that statements of support for a citizens' initiative are collected within a specific time-limit. In order to ensure that proposed citizens' initiatives remain relevant, whilst taking account of the complexity of collecting statements of support across the European Union, that time-limit should not be longer than 24 months from the date of registration of the proposed initiative. Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Recital 12 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (12a) It is crucial that transparency be maintained throughout the whole process. Therefore, any financial or political support received should be indicated in the statement of support form relating to each citizens' initiative. Funding by political parties and European political groups should not be permitted. Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Recital 13 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (13) It is appropriate that the Commission should take a decision on the admissibility of proposed initiatives at a sufficiently early stage. The organiser should therefore request such a decision after it has collected 300.000 statements of support for the proposed initiative from signatories coming from at least three Member States. deleted Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14) The Commission should, within a period of two months after receiving a request from the organiser, adopt a decision on its admissibility. A proposed citizens' initiative should be considered admissible if it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission and concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties. (14) The Commission should, within a period of one month after receiving a request from the organiser, adopt a