7. These implementing measures shall not affect the Community provisions governing the raising and checking of indirect taxes or administrative cooperation and mutual assistance in matters of indirect taxation. Article 7 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on Administrative Cooperation in the field of Indirect Taxation established by Article 10 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 218/92 OJ L 24, 1.2.1992, p. 1. . 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, the management procedure provided for in Article 4 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, in compliance with Articles 7 and 8 thereof. 3. The period referred to in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be three months. Article 8 1. The Commission shall take whatever other steps are necessary to verify that the measures financed from the Community budget are being carried out correctly and in compliance with the provisions of this Decision. It shall regularly, in collaboration with the Member States, monitor the various development and deployment stages of the computerised system with a view to determining whether the objectives pursued have been achieved, and to issuing guidelines on how to raise the effectiveness of the activities involved in implementing the computerised system. 2. Thirty months after the entry into force of this Decision, the Commission shall submit to the Committee referred to in Article 7 an interim report on the monitoring operations. If appropriate, this report shall set out methods and criteria for use in the later evaluation of how the computerised system is functioning. 3. At the end of the five-year period referred to in the first paragraph of Article 2, the Commission shall present to Parliament and the Council a report on the implementation of the computerised system. The report shall set out, inter alia, the methods and criteria to be used in the later evaluation of how the system is functioning. Article 9 The countries that have applied for membership of the European Union shall be kept informed by the Commission of the development and deployment of the computerised system and shall be invited to take part in the tests to be carried out. Article 10 1. The costs of setting up the computerised system shall be split between the Community and the Member States in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3. 2. The Community shall bear the costs of the design, acquisition, installation and maintenance of the Community components of the computerised system and the ongoing operating costs of those Community components installed in Commission premises, or in those of a designated subcontractor. 3. Member States shall bear the costs of setting up and running the non-Community components of the system and the ongoing operating costs of those non-Community components installed in their premises, or in those of a designated subcontractor. Article 11 1. The overall reference amount for financing the computerised system for the period defined in the first paragraph of Article 2 shall be set at EUR 35 000 000 in so far as the Community budget is concerned. The annual appropriations, including appropriations assigned to the use and operation