a professional boxing match between undefeated eleven-time five-division boxing world champion Floyd Mayweather Jr. and two-division mixed martial arts (MMA) world champion and at-the-time current UFC Lightweight Champion Conor McGregor.", " The match took place at the T-Mobile Arena in Paradise, Nevada, on August 26, 2017 at the light-middleweight weight class (154 lbs; 69.9 kgs).", " It was scheduled for twelve rounds." ] ], [ "Floyd Mayweather Jr. vs. Robert Guerrero", [ "Floyd Mayweather Jr. vs. Robert Guerrero, billed as May Day, was a boxing welterweight championship superfight for Mayweather's World Boxing Council (WBC) Welterweight title and vacant \"Ring\" Welterweight title.", " The bout was held on May 4, 2013, in the MGM Grand Garden Arena at the MGM Grand Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas, Nevada, United States on Showtime PPV.", " The bout was the first major televised fight of Mayweather's career to not be aired on HBO PPV.", " The card featured some of the rising stars of Mayweather Promotions: J'Leon Love, Badou Jack, Luis Arias, Ronald Gavril and Lanell Bellows.", " Mayweather won via unanimous decision with Guerrero winning the first 3 rounds, then Mayweather adjusted and won from the 4th to 12th round." ] ], [ "Kenny Bayless", [ "Kenny Bayless (born 1950) is an American boxing referee from Nevada.", " He is best known for having refereed many of the sport's superfights, including Manny Pacquiao vs. Ricky Hatton, Oscar De La Hoya vs. Floyd Mayweather Jr., Ricky Hatton vs. Paulie Malignaggi, Miguel Cotto vs. Antonio Margarito, Manny Pacquiao vs. Miguel Cotto, as well as Floyd Mayweather Jr. vs. Manny Pacquiao.", " Bayless's catchphrase, when giving his instructions to the fighters before the opening bell, is \"What I say you must obey.\"" ] ], [ "Floyd Mayweather Jr. vs. Juan Manuel Márquez", [ "Floyd Mayweather vs. Juan Manuel Márquez, billed as Number One/Número Uno, was a welterweight superfight which took place on September 19, 2009, at the MGM Grand Arena in Las Vegas between five-division world champion Floyd Mayweather Jr. (39–0, 25 KO) and three-division champion Juan Manuel Márquez (50–4–1, 37 KO).", " The fight served as a return to the ring for Mayweather, who, after his knock out victory of Ricky Hatton in December 2007, announced he would take a two-year layoff from boxing which later turned into retirement." ] ] ] }