P6_TA(2008)0245 Community system against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing * A6-0193/2008 European Parliament legislative resolution of 5 June 2008 on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community system to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing ( COM(2007)0602 – C6-0454/2007 – 2007/0223(CNS) ) (Consultation procedure) The European Parliament , – having regard to the Commission proposal to the Council ( COM(2007)0602 ), – having regard to Article 37 of the EC Treaty, pursuant to which the Council consulted Parliament ( C6-0454/2007 ), – having regard to Rule 51 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Fisheries and the opinion of the Committee on International Trade ( A6-0193/2008 ), 1. Approves the Commission proposal as amended; 2. Calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly, pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty; 3. Calls on the Council to notify Parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 4. Asks the Council to consult Parliament again if it intends to amend the Commission proposal substantially; 5. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and the Commission. Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 a (new) (2a) In order to be compatible with World Trade Organization rules on non-discrimination and national treatment, nothing in this Regulation should result in discriminatory treatment with respect to measures taken to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 a (new) (3a) The outermost regions of the European Union, described in Article 299 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and in Article 349 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, require particular attention in the fight against IUU fishing owing to the exceptional fragility of their ecosystems. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 (5) In accordance with the International Plan of Action to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, adopted in 2001 by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), IUU fishing means fishing activities considered as illegal, unreported or unregulated , where: (5) In accordance with the International Plan of Action to prevent, deter and eliminate illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, adopted in 2001 by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), IUU fishing means fishing activities considered as illegal, unreported or unregulated. 1. Illegal fishing refers to activities: - conducted by national or foreign vessels in waters under the jurisdiction of a state, without the permission of that state, or in contravention of its laws and regulations; - conducted by vessels flying the flag of states that are parties to a relevant regional fisheries management organization but operate in contravention of the conservation and management measures adopted by that organization and by which the states are bound, or relevant provisions of the applicable international law; or - in violation of national laws or international obligations, including those undertaken by cooperating states to a relevant regional fisheries management organization. 2. Unreported fishing refers to fishing activities: