{ "context": [ [ "Blaine Island", [ "Blaine Island is an island on the Kanawha River in the city of South Charleston, West Virginia.", " It is roughly 80 acre in size.", " Blaine Island serves as the South Charleston Manufacturing Site for the Union Carbide Corporation, a subsidiary of the Dow Chemical Company.", " Union Carbide purchased Blaine Island in 1927 in order to expand their petrochemical manufacturing operations in South Charleston.", " The company previously had petrochemical plants in South Charleston in 1925 and Clendenin in 1920, which holds the distinction as the world's first petrochemical plant." ] ], [ "Brains Brewery", [ "Brains (S. A. Brain & Company Ltd) is a regional brewery founded in 1882 in Cardiff, Wales, by Samuel Arthur Brain.", " The company controls more than 250 pubs in South Wales (particularly in Cardiff), Mid Wales and the West Country.", " The company took over Crown Buckley brewery in Llanelli in 1997, and Hancock's Brewery in 1999.", " Brains moved to the former Hancock's brewery just south of Cardiff Central railway station in 2000.", " The Old Brewery, in Cardiff city centre, has been developed into a modern bar and restaurant complex." ] ], [ "Elio Motors", [ "Elio Motors is an automobile company founded by Paul Elio in 2009.", " The three-wheeled \"Elio P4\" is engineered to attain a highway mileage rating of up to 84 mpg with regular features such as power windows, a power door lock, cruise control, and air conditioning, all in an aerodynamic, enclosed vehicle body.", " The vehicle is also equipped with a safety system that includes multiple air bags, anti-lock brakes, traction control, steel unibody frame, and crumple zones.", " Elio's first manufacturing site will be Shreveport, Louisiana." ] ], [ "Olympia Brewing Company", [ "The Olympia Brewing Company was a brewery in the northwest United States, located in Tumwater, Washington, near Olympia.", " Founded in 1896 by Leopold Friederich Schmidt, it was bought by G. Heileman Brewing Company in 1983.", " Through a series of consolidations, it was acquired by Pabst Brewing Company in 1999; the Tumwater brewery was closed in 2003 but the Olympia brand continues, currently contract brewed by MillerCoors in southern California." ] ], [ "Rick's Brewery", [ "Rick's Brewery, also known as Minnie Creek Brewery and Old Brewery, is a historic building located west of Anamosa, Iowa, United States.", " John Kohl bought the property in 1858, and he joined with John B. Kraus and Wilhelm Romberg to build the initial part of the building the following year.", " The three-story structure was built of native limestone that was quarried 2 mi to the west.", " It was built into the side of a hill so each level has a ground level entrance.", " They operated Minnie Creek Brewery here until 1863 when the building was sold at a sheriff's sale to satisfy a judgment against the partners.", " Abram B. Head bought it and sold the building the next year to Michael F. Rick who operated the brewery for 13 years and expanded