in the basic acts governing cooperation, to allow third-country nationals other than those referred to in paragraph 1 to tender for contracts. 3. Where an agreement on widening the market for procurement of goods or services to which the Community is party applies, the contracts for procurement financed by the budget shall also be open to third-country nationals other than those referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, under the conditions laid down in this agreement. CHAPTER 4 Award of grants Article 169 An action may be financed in full by the budget only if this proves essential for it to be carried out. CHAPTER 5 Auditing of accounts Article 170 Each financing agreement or grant agreement must expressly provide for the Commission and the Court of Auditors to have the power of audit, on the basis of documents and on the spot, over all contractors and subcontractors who have received Community funds. TITLE V EUROPEAN OFFICES Article 171 1. "European offices" for the purposes of applying this Title are the administrative structures set up by one or more institutions to perform specific cross-cutting tasks. 2. This Title shall also apply to the European Anti-fraud Office. 3. Parts one and three shall apply to the operation of the European offices, save as otherwise provided in this Title. Article 172 1. The appropriations for each European office, the total amount of which shall be entered in a specific budget line within the section of the budget relating to the Commission, shall be set out in detail in an Annex to that section. The Annex shall take the form of a statement of revenue and expenditure, subdivided in the same way as the sections of the budget. The appropriations entered in that Annex shall cover all the financial requirements of each European office in the performance of its duties on behalf of the institutions. 2. Each European office's establishment plan shall be annexed to that of the Commission. 3. The Director of each European office shall take decisions on transfers within the Annex provided for in paragraph 1. The Commission shall inform the budgetary authority of such transfers. 4. Each European office's accounts shall form an integral part of the Communities' accounts referred to in Article 121. Article 173 The Commission shall, in respect of the appropriations entered in the Annex for each European office, delegate the powers of authorising officer to the Director of the European office concerned and shall set the limits and conditions for this delegation of powers. Article 174 1. Each interinstitutional European office shall draw up analytical accounts of its expenditure, enabling the proportion of its services supplied to each of the institutions to be determined. Its Management Committee shall lay down the criteria on which the accounting system shall be based. 2. The remarks concerning the specific budget line in which is entered the total appropriation for each interinstitutional European office shall show an estimate of the cost of services supplied by the office to each of the institutions. This shall be based on the analytical accounts provided