Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment.", " He worked as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Indian Institute of Technology, Chennai from 2005 to 2008.", " He was appointed under Section 11 of the IIT Act of 1961, which lays down the composition of the Board of Governors for each of the seven IITs across the country." ] ], [ "L-3 Communication Combat Propulsion Systems", [ "L-3 Combat Propulsion Systems, a division of L-3, was formerly a division of General Dynamics Land Systems until L-3 acquired it in 2005.", " It is located in Muskegon, Michigan.", " L-3 - Combat Propulsion Systems employs over 500 people and was the 4th largest employer in Muskegon County as of 2006." ] ], [ "Gary L. Bennett", [ "Gary L. Bennett (born January 17, 1940) is an American scientist and engineer, specializing in aerospace and energy.", " He has worked for NASA and the US Department of Energy (DOE) on advanced space power systems and advanced space propulsion systems.", " His professional career has included work on the Voyager, Galileo, and Ulysses space missions, and is currently working as a consultant in aerospace power and propulsion systems.", " He is also a science fiction author (\"The Star Sailors\")." ] ], [ "ISRO Propulsion Complex", [ "The ISRO Propulsion Complex (IPRC), located at Mahendragiri of Tamil Nadu, is an Indian Space Research Organisation centre involved in testing, assembling, and integrating propulsion systems and stages that are developed at ISRO's Liquid Propulsion Systems Centres. Formerly, IPRC was known as LPSC, Mahendragiri, functioning under LPSC, Valiamala in Thiruvananthapuram of Kerala.", " It was elevated as IPRC with effect from February 1, 2014." ] ], [ "Arnold Engineering Development Complex", [ "Arnold Engineering Development Complex (AEDC), Arnold Engineering Development Center before July 2012, located at Arnold Air Force Base, Tennessee is a ground-based flight test facility operated by the Air Force Test Center." ] ], [ "Aero-propulsion Systems Test Facility", [ "The Aero-propulsion Systems Test Facility, located at Arnold Engineering Development Complex is a unique national facility designed to test aircraft propulsion systems in true mission environments without leaving the ground.", " The test unit is owned by the United States Air Force and operated by Aerospace Testing Alliance." ] ], [ "Electromagnetic formation flight (EMFF)", [ "Electromagnetic formation flight (EMFF) investigates the concept of using electromagnets coupled with reaction wheels in place of more traditional propulsion systems to control the positions and attitudes of a number of spacecraft in close proximity.", " Unlike traditional propulsion systems, which use exhaustible propellants that often limit lifetime, the EMFF system uses solar power to energize a magnetic field.", " The Massachusetts Institute of Technology Space Systems Laboratory is exploring this concept by developing dynamics and control models as well as an experimental testbed for their validation." ] ] ] }