Reply (12 February 2007) In the run-up to the 2005 UN World Summit the Council consistently supported the principle of ‘Responsibility to protect’. In its conclusions on 7 November 2005, it stated that ‘the EU strongly welcomes the endorsement of the responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. For the first time, UN member states have affirmed their responsibility to protect their own populations, and the international community has acknowledged that it should act collectively, through the UN Security Council, if States fail to protect their populations from these violations. The responsibility to protect will be an important tool of the international community for addressing the worst atrocities.’ (13737/1/05). Furthermore, in its priorities for the 61st UN General Assembly, the EU reiterated that it would ‘strive to ensure that the agreement reached at the World Summit on Responsibility to Protect is translated into a willingness to act in specific cases’ (11380/06). Concerning the situation in Darfur, the Council has repeatedly reminded the leadership of the Sudanese Government of its collective and individual responsibility to protect its citizens from all violence and to guarantee respect for human rights. This position was further reiterated at the European Council on 14-15 December 2006 when it called for the immediate cessation of hostilities, and underlined the obligation of all parties to respect human rights and international humanitarian law, the existing ceasefire accords and relevant UN Security Council resolutions. The European Council expected the Sudanese authorities to fulfil its responsibility to provide effective protection to all the citizens from all violence and to put and end to impunity in Darfur. As indicated in the EU annual report on human rights (2006) the EU also provided vital assistance to the African Union and the African sub-regional organisations by funding the African Peace Facility. This has made a significant contribution to the AU's ability to deploy peacekeeping troops to Darfur. In addition, the EU has provided substantial assistance through civilian and military support to the African Union mission in the Darfur region OJ L 188, 20.7.2005, p. 46 . . Moreover, the EU welcomes the fact that the UN Human Rights Council's special session on Darfur (Geneva, 12-13 December 2006) has addressed the urgent situation in this region of Sudan, and also welcomes the decision to send an independent high-level mission to assess the human rights situation there. The EU expects the mission to fulfil its mandate promptly and to make effective recommendations on improving the plight of the people of Darfur.