11 1. The overall reference amount for financing the computerised system for the period defined in the first paragraph of Article 2 shall be set at EUR 35 000 000 in so far as the Community budget is concerned. The annual appropriations, including appropriations assigned to the use and operation of the system after the above implementation period, shall be approved by the budgetary authority subject to the financial perspective. 2. Member States shall estimate and make available the budgets and human resources needed to meet their obligations described in Article 5. Article 12 This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. Article 13 This Decision is addressed to the Member States. Done at , For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX Technical Aspects The data transmission system will use an architecture in which the Member States will be responsible for all telephone switchboards and electronic switching stations used by traders in the respective Member States, or by the Member States themselves, to receive or transmit data, and for all data exchanges with other Member States. No external intermediaries will be used to carry out these tasks. If the system is to be used for commercial operations, very high standards of security and confidentiality have to be built into it. In particular it must be guaranteed to be tamper-proof, the data transmitted must enjoy absolute privacy and the system must be permanently available, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Similarly, recovery times after any breakdowns must be very short. 1. Architecture Given the conclusions of the feasibility study and the data transmission system selected, the principles underlying the proposal are: – All listed operators (authorised warehousekeepers and their bonded warehouses, registered traders and their tax representatives) must be connected up to the system. – All data transmitted between traders connected up to the system must be transmitted via at least one Member State. – Certain other traders, particularly non-registered traders (occasional consignees) will not have direct access to the system. In their case, certain data must be transmitted directly between traders. – Where data are so transmitted, only one of the traders, generally the consignor, will be responsible for putting the data into the system. – Listed operators will be responsible for providing all data on the movement of goods, particularly the data required for submitting and, where necessary, updating the movement information (the electronic AAD) Accompanying administrative document. , and for returning the "discharged" message. – All administrative data other than movement data, will be transmitted directly between Member States. The data may never be transmitted via traders. – Information that is in the public domain may be made available for consultation at an information centre accessible to the public. – Where use of the computerised system is concerned, a trader may communicate directly only with the Member State responsible for the place from which, or to which, the products are consigned, as appropriate. It is recognised that the