appropriate indicators. 2. Member States shall use statistical data collected in accordance with Regulation (EC) No […] [ of the European Parliament and of the Council of ... concerning statistics on plant protection products ] OJ L ... for the following purposes: a) calculation of common and harmonised risk and use indicators at national level; b) identification of trends in the use of individual active substances, in particular when use restrictions have been decided at Community level in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EC) No […] [statistics on plant protection products]; c) identification of trends in the occurrence of pests and disease and development of fungi; ( d ) identification of priority active substances or priority crops or unsustainable practices that require particular attention, or good practices that can be set as examples in order to achieve the objectives of this Directive in preventing both health and environmental risks, including hazards, and dependency on pesticides; promoting and encouraging the adoption of non-chemical alternatives to pesticides; e) assessment and adaptation of the national action plans. 3. Member States shall communicate the results of the evaluations carried out pursuant to paragraph 2 to the Commission and to the other Member States and shall make this information available to the public . The results shall be published via the Internet portal referred to in Article 4(6). 4. The Commission shall use statistical data collected in accordance with Regulation (EC) No ... [statistics on plant protection products] and the information referred to in paragraph 3 to calculate risk and use indicators at Community level, in order to estimate trends in risks from pesticide use. This data and information shall also be used by the Commission to assess progress in the achievement of the objectives of other Community policies aimed at reducing the impact of pesticides on human and animal health and on the environment. The results shall be made available to the general public via the Internet portal referred to in Article 4(6). 5. For the purposes of paragraph 2(a) and paragraph 3, risk and use indicators shall be calculated on the basis of data inputs concerning hazard and exposure, pesticide use records, data on characteristics of pesticides, weather data and soil data. 6. The gathering of data may not impose on Community farmers and wine producers any additional documentary requirements or any unreasonable requirements to make information available. Article 16 Recordkeeping and reporting 1. Pesticide dealers shall maintain records showing the receipt, sale, delivery or other disposal of all pesticides or pesticide application equipment for a period of two years. 2. The Commission shall , every three years, submit to the European Parliament and the Council a report on the progress in the implementation of this Directive and an assessment of national action plans , accompanied where appropriate by proposals for amendments. 3. Member States shall report annually to the Commission on their national action plans. Article 17 Exchange of information and best practice The Commission shall establish a platform for the exchange of information and best practice in the field of sustainable use