Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (22 August 2011) The Commission has taken a number of regulatory measures in order to increase transparency on the markets and put in place a common European legal framework to deal with abusive short selling practices. On 15 September 2010, the Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation on short selling and certain aspects of Credit Default Swaps (CDS) COM(2010)482 final. , which is currently being considered by the Parliament and the Council under the ordinary legislative procedure. This proposal aims at increasing the transparency of short selling and CDS, introducing certain restrictions on uncovered short selling; and granting clear powers to regulators. Powers are given to the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), to temporarily restrict short selling or CDS under certain conditions. Pending the adoption of the abovementioned legislative proposal, restrictions on short selling remains the exclusive competence of the national competent authority. At international level, the competent authorities of EU Member States participate in the work of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) which promotes international regulatory and supervisory cooperation and exchange of information among securities regulators. In relation to short selling, IOSCO has developed high level principles for the effective regulation of short selling International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO), Regulation of short selling, Final report by the Technical Committee of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions, June 2009. . The Commission's proposal for a regulation is fully in line with the IOSCO principles. In line with G20 commitments agreed in Pittsburgh in September 2009, the Commission also adopted on 15 September 2010 a proposal for a regulation on Over-The-Counter (OTC) derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories COM(2010)484 final. . Once in force, mandatory central clearing of standardised OTC derivatives and reporting to trade repositories will significantly improve the safety and transparency of trading in OTC derivatives. The Commission calls on the co-legislators to conclude the negotiations on these two essential proposals swiftly. Finally, the forthcoming Commission proposal amending Directive 2004/39/EC on markets in financial instruments, envisaged for autumn 2011, is set to bring about further improvements in terms of transparency as far as transactions on regulated markets are concerned. In this context, the EU rules on market abuse and market manipulations will also be considerably strengthened.