2 Article 1, paragraph 1 1. A Community Action Programme to provide support for the European Women's Lobby and other organisations active at European level in the field of equality between men and women is established . 1. This Decision establishes a Community Action Programme to provide support for the European Women's Lobby and promote other organisations active at European level in the field of equality between men and women. Justification It is important that the work of these other organisations should also be encouraged. Amendment 3 Article 1, paragraph 2, point (b) b) its activities must be in accordance with the principles underlying Community action in the policy area of equality between men and women; b) its activities must be in accordance with the principles underlying and the legal provisions governing Community action in the area of equality between men and women; Justification Self-explanatory. Amendment 4 Article 4, paragraph 1 An operating grant shall be awarded directly to the European Women's Lobby in so far as it complies with the general criteria laid down in point 2.1 of the Annex Group 1 : An operating grant shall be awarded directly to the beneficiaries referred to under point 2.1 of the Annex Justification The legal act should identify with more transparency the different awarding criteria in respect of the provisions of the Financial Regulation. Amendment 5 Article 4, paragraph 2 2. The award of an operating grant on the basis of an ongoing programme of work or of a grant for a specific action to an organisation which is pursuing an objective of general European interest or an objective which is part of the European Union's policy of promoting equality between men and women must meet the general criteria laid down in points 2.2. and 2.3. of the Annex. Organisations entitled to receive grants shall be selected following a call for proposals. 2. The award of an operating grant on the basis of an ongoing programme of work or of a grant for a specific action to an organisation which is pursuing an objective of general European interest or an objective which is part of the European Union's policy of promoting equality between men and women must meet the general criteria laid down in points 2.2. and 2.3. of the Annex. Organisations entitled to receive grants shall be selected following a call for proposals. Or. fr Justification 'Objective' has been deleted. It is enough if operating grants or specific actions can be financed with European funds. [second part does not apply to English version] Amendment 6 Article 5, paragraph 1 The operating grant awarded to the European Women's Lobby and other organisations active at European level in the field of equality between men and women may cover no more than 80% of the organisation's total eligible expenditure for the calendar year for which the grant is awarded. The principles of degressivity in real terms and cofinancing apply to all beneficiaries as follows: - bodies identified by a basic act: at least 10% of cofinancing even through contributions in kind, and no degressivity;