the agendas of meetings; Amendment 141 Article 37, paragraph 1, point (b a) (new) (ba) without prejudice to Articles 38 and 40, the information on which its opinions are based; Amendment 142 Article 37, paragraph 1, point (d a) (new) (da) the annual programme of work and the multiannual programme. Amendment 143 Article 37, paragraph 2 2. The Management Board, acting on a proposal from the Excecutive Director, may decide to hold some of its meetings in public and may authorise consumer representatives or other interested parties to observe the proceedings of some of the Authority's activities. 2. The Management Board shall hold its meetings in public and may authorize consumer representatives or other interested parties to observe the proceedings of some of the Authority's activities. Amendment 144 Article 37, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. Specific provisions shall be adopted by the Management Board for the inclusion of lay observers at meetings of the Scientific Committee. Amendment 145 Article 38, paragraph 3 3. The conclusions of the scientific opinions delivered by the Authority in relation with foreseeable health effects shall not on any account be kept confidential. Deleted Amendment 146 Article 39, paragraph 2 2. The Authority shall ensure that the public and any interested parties are rapidly given objective, reliable and easily understandable information, in particular with regard to the results of its work. To facilitate the public's understanding of its work, it shall develop and disseminate information material for the general public. 2. The Authority shall carry out its risk communication function in a responsible way. It shall ensure that the public and any interested parties are rapidly given objective, reliable and easily understandable information, in particular with regard to the results of its work. To facilitate the public's understanding of its work, it shall develop and disseminate information material for the general public. Amendment 147 Article 39, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a The Authority, as represented by the Executive Director and members of the different Scientific Panels, shall meet with the Commission and Council on a regular basis to discuss the basis of risk analysis, so that these institutions can make more informed risk-management decisions. Amendment 148 Article 39, paragraph 2 b (new) 2b. The Authority shall have a brief to explain its scientific risk assessments to the European Parliament, consumers, food businesses and the academic community to enhance its role and to ensure its risk- analysis procedures are operated transparently and independently. Amendment 149 Article 39, paragraph 2 c (new) 2c. The conclusions of the scientific opinions delivered by the Authority on foreseeable health and safety effects shall be made public immediately after they have been adopted and transmitted to the Commission. Amendment 150 Article 39, paragraph 3 3. The Commission and the Authority shall ensure appropriate exchange of information on matters relating to their respective competence in the field of risk communication. 3. The Commission and the Authority shall ensure appropriate exchange of information on matters relating to their respective competence in the field of risk communication. The Authority shall publish all opinions, including recommendations to risk