Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (7 September 2011) Arthritis is an important group of health problems responsible for considerable impairment, pain and disability in the EU population. While Member States have responsibility for their health services and medical care, the Commission supports and complements Member States' activities. Through the EU health programme, the Commission supports projects such as the ‘European Musculoskeletal Conditions Surveillance and Information Network’ www.eumusc.net , which intends to improve the quality of care and enable equity in access to care by further developing a surveillance and information system. The Commission is also exploring the possibility to reinforce the prevention of work-related musculoskeletal disorders in all workers. Arthritis research has been a priority within the 6th and 7th Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (FP6, FP7). The EU invested EUR 22.5 million to support research in this area as part of FP6 (2002‑06) and is currently investing EUR 88.2 million within FP7 (2007‑13). Issues addressed include the development of new or improved drugs for the treatment of arthritis, the investigation of genetic and biochemical markers of the disease, the modelling of cartilage degradation, and the use of nanotechnology and stem cell therapy to repair tissue damaged by arthritis. In addition, research aimed at developing new diagnostic methods to discover the early forms of rheumatoid arthritis and alike diseases is being addressed by the BTCure project (EUR 38 million), supported within the framework of the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) http://imi.europa.eu/index_en.html . A public-private partnership between the EU and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), this initiative aims to speed up the development of better and safer medicines. In this context, the 2010 call for proposals of the Innovative Medicines Initiative included chronic inflammatory diseases, which enabled the submission of applications relating to arthritis research. The evaluation of the submitted proposals is currently underway. Finally, a call for proposals under FP7 published in July 2011, which expires in October 2011, calls for applications on ‘Biomarkers and diagnostics for chronic inflammatory diseases of the joints and/or digestive system’. http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/portal/page/cooperation?callIdentifier=FP7-HEALTH‑2012-INNOVATION-1 The Commission is of the opinion that awareness-raising campaigns on arthritis fall under responsibility of Member States. The Commission is therefore not intending to carry out such awareness campaigns.