determined on the basis of the official languages used and requested by the members and substitutes of the committee concerned. The same shall apply in the case of the delegations, except where the members and substitutes concerned agree otherwise. 9. The Bureau shall appoint the Secretary-General pursuant to Rule 197. 10. The Bureau shall lay down the implementing rules relating to European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 2004/2003 on the regulations governing political parties at European level and the rules regarding their funding and shall, in implementing that Regulation, assume the tasks conferred upon it by these Rules of Procedure. 11. The President and/or the Bureau may entrust one or more members of the Bureau with general or specific tasks lying within the competence of the President and/or the Bureau. At the same time the ways and means of carrying them out shall be laid down. 12. When a new Parliament is elected, the outgoing Bureau shall remain in office until the first sitting of the new Parliament. Rule 23 Composition of the Conference of Presidents 1. The Conference of Presidents shall consist of the President of Parliament and the chairmen of the political groups. The chairman of a political group may arrange to be represented by a member of his group. 2. The Non-attached Members shall delegate two of their number to attend meetings of the Conference of Presidents, without having the right to vote. 3. The Conference of Presidents shall endeavour to reach a consensus on matters referred to it. Where a consensus cannot be reached, the matter shall be put to a vote subject to a weighting based on the number of Members in each political group. Rule 24 Duties of the Conference of Presidents 1. The Conference of Presidents shall carry out the duties assigned to it under the Rules of Procedure. 2. The Conference of Presidents shall take decisions on the organisation of Parliament's work and matters relating to legislative planning. 3. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for matters relating to relations with the other institutions and bodies of the European Union and with the national parliaments of Member States. The Bureau shall name two Vice-Presidents who shall be entrusted with the implementation of the relations with national parliaments. They shall report back regularly to the Conference of Presidents on their activities in this regard. 4. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for matters relating to relations with non-member countries and with non-Union institutions and organisations. 5. The Conference of Presidents shall draw up the draft agenda of Parliament's part-sessions. 6. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for the composition and competence of committees, committees of inquiry and joint parliamentary committees, standing delegations and ad hoc delegations. 7. The Conference of Presidents shall decide how seats in the Chamber are to be allocated pursuant to Rule 32. 8. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for authorising the drawing up of own-initiative reports. 9. The Conference of Presidents shall submit proposals to the Bureau