in Article 17(2). Article 15 Community Office A Community Office shall be established which shall be responsible for keeping a full register of certificates issued, monitoring and updating their validity, and checking the existence of financial guarantees registered by third countries. Article 16 Reports Five years after the date of entry into force of this Directive, the Member States shall report to the Commission on the experience gained in applying it . These reports shall assess in particular the procedures for certification and issuing of certificates by Member States and the need to consider whether this task should be delegated wholly or partly to the Community Office referred to in Article 15. On this basis, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council including proposals for amendments to this Directive which it considers relevant. Article 17 Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee on Safe Seas and the Prevention of Pollution from Ships (COSS), established by Regulation (EC) No 2099/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council OJ L 324, 29.11.2002, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 93/2007 (OJ L 22, 31.1.2007, p. 12). . 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. The period provided for in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be three months. Article 18 Transposition 1. Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by ... * 18 months after the date of entry into force of this Directive. . They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those provisions and a correlation table between those provisions and this Directive. When Member States adopt those measures they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made. 2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. Article 19 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the […] day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union . Article 20 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States. Done at For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX I 1976 Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims, as amended by the 1996 Protocol (The text of the Convention will be inserted once it is available in all the official languages). ANNEX II Resolution of the Assembly of the International Maritime Organisation and the Governing Body of the International Labour Organisation entitled "Guidelines on provision of financial security in case of abandonment of seafarers" (IMO Resolution A.930(22)) (The text of the Resolution will be inserted once it is available in all the official languages). ANNEX III Model financial guarantee certificate referred to