36. Financial compensation will amount to €51 million over 5 years. During the first three years the compensation paid to Guinea-Bissau will amount to some €10 million, with €1 million to be allocated to specific measures, including support for local small-scale fishing, scientific and technical programmes and training. For the remaining two years the compensation will rise to €10.5 million. The financial contribution paid by vessel owners operating under this Agreement, which was increased by 5% on 1 January 2000, will remain the same for the first three years of the new Protocol, before being increased by 5% thereafter. There will be also be an increase from €20 to €25 per tonne of tuna caught. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Development and Cooperation: 1. Points out that the management and monitoring of fishery resources in Guinea-Bissau is very limited and that little is known about the current state of resources, although evidence of over-exploitation exists, particularly with regard to cephalopods, shrimps and demersal species targeted by the industrial fisheries sector; this very lack of biological and statistical information highlights the need to apply the ‘precautionary principle’ in establishing overall fishing effort; 2. Highlights the resultant need to ensure that due consideration is given to maritime surveillance in the funding for the specific measures to support the national fisheries sector provided for under the Protocol; 3. Draws attention to the fact that the fisheries sector is not given priority under the National Indicative Programme (NIP) for Guinea-Bissau for the period 1995-2001 and that, in the interests of consistency, the programming of the ninth EDF ought to serve to remedy this situation; 4. Recognises the damage done to dolphins by seine nets, and to seabirds, in particular albatrosses, by long-lines; calls, consequently, on the Commission and national and international fishing organisations to undertake research and apply already existing technology whereby marine mammals and birds can be protected from such fishing practices; 5. Calls on the Commission to ensure that each and every contractual clause of the Agreement is observed by vessels flying a Community flag; 6. Calls for the relevant parliamentary committee to be informed of the progress of the renegotiation process, so that it can make its views known to the Commission; 7. Recommends that the Committee on Fisheries approve the proposal.