7.1.2005 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on statements by the European Council and Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Martin Schulz, Jan Marinus Wiersma, Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez, Margrietus van den Berg, Glenys Kinnock, María Elena Valenciano Martínez-Orozco and Neena Gill on behalf of the PSE Group on the Asian tsunami European Parliament resolution on the Asian tsunami The European Parliament , – having regard to the tsunami that occurred on 26 December 2004 and had devastating effects across Asian countries on the Indian Ocean, – having regard to the Conference held in Jakarta on 6 January 2005 and the donors' Conference held in Geneva on 11 January 2005, – having regard to the extraordinary meeting of the EU Development Ministers convened by the Luxembourg Presidency on 7 January 2005, – having regard to the visit of Javier Solana to Washington D.C. on 4 January 2005, – having regard to the calls by Singapore for an ASEAN meeting that will include all UN agencies and donors, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas over 150 000 have been confirmed dead in the tsunami so far, over 5 million have been displaced, over 500 000 have been badly injured and thousands still risk losing their lives to disease and hunger, B. whereas the worst-affected countries include Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, India and the Maldives, and those still missing include thousands of EU citizens, C. whereas devastation has also been caused in East Africa, with 50 000 people affected in Somalia and casualties in Kenya, Mauritius, the Seychelles and Tanzania, D. whereas the World Health Organisation estimates that up to 5 million victims of the tsunami lack basic necessities such as medical supplies and sanitation facilities, with the lack of clean water being the most basic problem, E. whereas the disaster has hit the poorest communities, such as fishing communities, the most in the affected countries, and many children have been orphaned by the disaster, F. whereas the global response to the disaster has been overwhelming; whereas the EU and its Member States have pledged almost € 1 billion so far, and the amount continues to rise; and whereas the Commission has already committed € 23 m and promises more funds from the emergency reserve of € 200 m, G. whereas the effectiveness of the relief effort depends on strong UN coordination supported by the major donors, H. whereas most of the countries affected by the tsunami were already burdened with large debt repayments, and whereas money given to the relief effort would be rendered ineffective if the donor countries continue to receive interest payments on these debts, I. whereas in previous disasters, pledged aid has often not reflected actual amounts of real aid delivered, J. whereas the UN is carrying out needs assessments across the affected areas, but many areas affected by the tsunami remain difficult to access, particularly in Sumatra, K. whereas Commissioner Michel visited Sri Lanka and Indonesia from 1 to 6 January 2005, attending the