Answer given by High representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (23 February 2011) The Commission is aware of the attacks against Christians that the Honourable Member is referring to and firmly condemns them. The Commission is deeply concerned about the recurrent violence in Iraq including against persons belonging to minorities. The EU follows developments in Iraq very closely, and in its dialogue with Iraq, the EU frequently voices its human rights concerns, including on freedom of religion or belief and elimination of all forms of discrimination and intolerance and offers its cooperation in moving forward on these issues. The EU Delegation in Baghdad, together with the EU diplomatic missions, maintains regular contacts with authorities and representatives of religious communities. The High Representative/Vice-President condemned the attacks on the Syrian Catholic Cathedral of Our Lady of Salvation in her statement on 1 November 2010. On the situation of Christians in the context of religious freedom in the European Parliament on 19 January 2011, she stressed in her statement that the EU will not turn a blind eye to the plight of Christian communities in the Middle East. The Foreign Affairs Council (FAC) addressed the issue of violence against religious minorities at its meeting in November 2010 and adopted Conclusions, stressing that a new government in Iraq will need to rededicate itself to the pursuit of national reconciliation, representing the interests and needs and protecting the human rights of all Iraqis. The January 2011 FAC held an exchange of views on freedom of religion or belief and agreed to return to the subject at a later stage. A substantial proportion of EU support has gone to the most vulnerable Iraqis, many of whom are internally displaced, living in areas with dense minority group populations. EU assistance has ranged from humanitarian assistance to support for protection and promotion of their human rights, to the rehabilitation of schools in an area like Nineveh, which has a large Christian population. EU assistance provided is based on the principles of non-discrimination and impartiality. The EU also funds projects aimed at alleviating the plight of all refugees, of all communities, in neighbouring countries, especially Syria and Jordan. Human rights will be a prominent element of the partnership and cooperation agreement that the EU expects to sign with Iraq in the course of 2011. The EU plays a very active role, globally, in protecting and promoting all human rights and fundamental freedoms in line with international standards. The November 2009 General Affairs Council underlined the EU’s strong attachment to freedom of religion or belief, following which a comprehensive EU action plan on this issue has been developed and is being implemented. The EU has also stepped up its actions to address freedom of religion or belief in its contacts with non-EU countries. At UN level, every year the EU leads a resolution in the United Nations General Assembly on ‘Elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief’. In its last resolution adopted by consensus on 21 December 2010, the General Assembly condemned all forms