hereafter the Directive. The Directive contains the essential requirements, in terms of quality and safety, which medical devices like breast implants have to meet, in order to ensure a high level of health protection. These essential requirements are supported by harmonised standards, presenting technical options to meet those essential requirements. The Directive also contains obligations imposed on the manufacturer regarding labelling and information provided to the patient and the physician. The Directive defines four classes of medical devices (I, IIA, IIB and III), that determine the various conformity assessment procedures to be followed for medical devices. Breast implants are class IIB. The Commission will now present, on the basis of Article 7 of Directive 93/42/EEC, a decision under which breast implants, by way of derogation to the general classification rules, will be Class III products, in order to ensure that, in the framework of a full quality assurance system, the technical file is explicitly the subject of an approval by the Notified Body. This will have the welcome effect of reinforcing assessment procedures. Annex 1 also lists applicable essential requirements, including provisions on information and labelling, and the applicable provisions on clinical evaluation in relation to breast implants. Informed Patient Consent Throughout the debate with the European Parliament and national authorities, and through discussions with women, it has become clear that measures applicable exclusively to the technical requirements in relation to breast implants are insufficient to provide the best guarantees for health protection. Implants, like any other surgical interventions, can present side effects. Patients can react differently to interventions or to the implants. Women should be aware that breast implants have to be replaced after a time period that will be different from one person to the other. Because the benefits of breast implantation tend to be of a subjective nature, it is particularly important for women to be adequately informed about the associated risks, so that they can balance these against their personal assessment of the benefits. The Commission considers of utmost importance that, before the intervention, women receive all appropriate information in relation to potential benefits and risks of surgical intervention and breast implants. It invites the Member States, in consultation with all interested parties, including patient organisations and support groups, to adopt measures implementing, at national level, a system of adequate and comprehensive patient information followed by documenting in writing the Patient's Consent. The consultation procedure may include the provision of a 'cool off period' and also recommendations on minimum age for the procedure. It also invites the Member States to ensure, as part of a policy on information to women interested in undergoing a breast implant operation, that in the light of inherent risks related to breast implants, advertising for these products provides balanced information, and that the advertising also suggests that women seek appropriate independent advice, e.g. consult their physician; Research and Development The Commission proposes that an efficient policy on innovation should be based on a number of elements. Before breast implants are placed on the market, manufacturers must collect clinical data on the characteristics and