Joint answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-4151/08 , E-4152/08 (23 September 2008) 1. The President of the Commission and the Vice-President responsible for Administrative affairs, audit and anti-fraud have a copy of the letter sent by the President of a JRC union dated 3 March 2008. The allegations made in this letter did not provide specific details or identify facts that could be confirmed or denied. If concrete allegations are made and substantial information is transmitted, the JRC management would be ready to instigate an investigation. 2. As regards the allegations of staff ‘who were either put under strong pressure or “obliged” to leave the JRC, and despite the lack of substantiated details the JRC administration has however tried to find whether there is evidence from complaints made to human resources, the Mediator or other such services that would support the allegations. However, there appear to be no concrete cases of pressure having been put on staff who challenged irregularities and, there is certainly no evidence of staff having been forced to leave the JRC as a result of pressure relating to their opinions. The JRC will ensure thorough investigation of any specific case that is identified and brought to its attention. The Commission of course condemns harassment and mistreatment of its staff. On the specific question related to a procurement contract in the decommissioning area, a file has been transmitted to the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). 3. In order to address the alleged issues it is essential to know facts and details. The JRC works within the internal control boundaries as any other Commission service. 4. The JRC management does not have any element which could prove that the contract with AREVA for decommissioning had constituted a fraud against the social security system of a Member State. It was a contract for the provision of expert services and AREVA, like any other employer, is obliged to meet its social security obligations under its national law. The Commission refers the Honourable Member to the answer given to his previous Written Questions on this matter ( E‑1021/08 , E‑0871/08 and E‑0872/08 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB ). As requested in the Written Question E‑4152/08 , the other contracts signed with AREVA in the last five years are listed in Annex; these contracts fulfilled operational needs identified by JRC and were not “with no added value” as claimed by the Honourable Member.