technology and their components. 3. The security accreditation of systems by the Board shall consist of the establishment of the compliance of the systems with the security requirements referred to in Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 and in accordance with the relevant security rules and regulations applicable to the Council and the Commission. 4. On the basis of the risk reports referred to in paragraph 11 of this Article, the Board shall inform the Commission of its risk assessment and provide advice to the Commission on residual risk treatment options for a given security accreditation decision. 5. The Commission shall keep the Board continuously informed of the impact of any envisaged decisions of the Board on the proper conduct of the programmes and of the implementation of residual risk treatment plans. The Board shall take note of any such opinion of the Commission. 6. The decisions of the Board shall be addressed to the Commission. 7. The Board shall be composed of one representative per Member State, one representative from the Commission and one from the HR. A representative of ESA shall be invited to attend Board meetings as an observer. 8. The Board shall establish its rules of procedure and shall appoint its Chairperson. 9. The Chairperson of the Board shall be responsible for representing the Agency insofar as the Executive Director, according to Article 8, is not responsible. 10. The Board shall have access to all the human and material resources required to provide appropriate administrative support functions and to enable it, together with the bodies referred to in paragraph 11 of this Article, to perform its tasks independently, in particular when handling files, initiating and monitoring the implementation of security procedures and performing system security audits, preparing decisions and organising its meetings. 11. The Board shall set up special bodies, under itself, to deal with specific issues, acting on its instructions. In particular, while ensuring necessary continuity of work, it shall set up: - a Panel to conduct security analysis reviews and tests to produce the relevant risk reports in order to assist it in preparing its decisions; - a Crypto Distribution Authority (CDA) to assist the Committee in particular for questions related to flight keys. 12. If a consensus according to the general principles referred to in Article 9a cannot be reached, the Board shall take decisions on the basis of majority voting, as provided for in Article 16 of the Treaty on European Union and without prejudice to Article 9 of this Regulation. The representative of the Commission and the representative of the HR shall not vote. The Chairperson of the Board shall sign, on behalf of the Board, the decisions adopted by the Board. 13. The Commission shall keep the European Parliament and the Council informed, without undue delay, about the impact of the adoption of the accreditation decisions on the proper conduct of the programmes. If the Commission considers that a decision taken by the Board may have a significant effect on the proper conduct of the programmes, for example in terms of