and forest resources, feed-stocks, marine products and biomass (including marine resources) for energy, environment, and products with high added value such as materials and chemicals (including biological resources utilisable in pharmaceutical industry and medicine), including novel farming systems, bio-processes and bio-refinery concepts; bio‑catalysis; new and improved micro-organisms and enzymes; forestry and forest based products and processes; environmental bio‑remediation and cleaner bio-processing, the utilisation of agro-industrial wastes and by-products. · Life sciences, biotechnology and biochemistry for sustainable non-food products and processes: improved crops and forest resources, feed-stocks, marine products and biomass (including marine resources) for energy, environment, and products with high added value such as materials and chemicals (including biological resources utilisable in pharmaceutical industry and medicine), including novel farming systems, bio-processes and bio-refinery concepts; bio‑catalysis; new and improved micro-organisms and enzymes; forestry and forest based products and processes; environmental bio‑remediation and cleaner bio-processing, the utilisation of agro-industrial wastes and by-products. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 20 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 3 "Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)", Subtitle "Rationale", paragraph 4 From these diverse efforts a new wave of technologies is emerging. ICT research activities will also draw on a broader range of scientific and technological disciplines including bio‑ and life sciences, psychology, pedagogy, cognitive and social sciences and the humanities. From these diverse efforts a new wave of technologies is emerging. ICT research activities will also draw on a broader range of scientific and technological disciplines including bio‑ and life sciences, chemistry, psychology, pedagogy, cognitive and social sciences and the humanities. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 21 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 3 "Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)", Subtitle "Activities", bullet 3, indent 2, subindent 3 - ICT-based systems to support accessibility and use over time of digital cultural and scientific resources and assets, in a multilingual/multicultural environment. - ICT-based systems to support accessibility and use over time of digital cultural and scientific resources and assets, in a multilingual/multicultural environment, and including as regards the cultural heritage . Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 22 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 3 "Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)", Subtitle "Activities", bullet 3, indent 4 - ICT for trust and confidence: identity management; authentication and authorisation; privacy enhancing technologies; rights and asset management; protection against cyber threats. - ICT for trust and confidence: identity management; authentication and authorisation; privacy enhancing technologies; rights and asset management; protection against cyber threats , in coordination with other themes, in particular the "Security" theme. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 23 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 5 "Energy", Subtitle "Rationale", paragraph 3 Radically transforming the energy system into a less- or non-CO 2 -emitting, reliable, competitive and sustainable energy system requires new technologies with risks that are too high and profits too uncertain for private firms to provide all the investment needed for research, development, demonstration and deployment. Public support