Answer given by Mr Hahn on behalf of the Commission (7 September 2011) In the context of the principle of shared management for the administration of the Structural Funds, the design, preparation, implementation (including project selection), monitoring, audit and evaluation of projects is the responsibility of the national authorities, at the most appropriate territorial level and according to the institutional system of each Member State. This means, in particular, that the Member States do not inform the Commission about individual projects, unless they are major projects in the sense of the relevant regulations. Therefore, the Commission does not normally receive details of implementation of individual projects, except for major projects. Upon the request of the Commission, the competent Greek authorities provided the following information in relation to the port and road works in Ikaria: Two projects are currently implemented in the area of Evdilos, Ikaria, namely the ‘Port works at Evdilos in Ikaria — Access road to the port’ and ‘Improvement of the provincial road network of Agios Kirykos-Evdilos at Spasmata position’. Both projects are supported by the European Regional Development Fund with an EU co-financing rate of 85 %. The budget of the port and road works amounts to EUR 3 700 000 and EUR 1 000 000 respectively. The supervision of both projects is assured by the Directorate of Technical Projects of the Regional Unit of Samos and more specifically by the Transport Projects Department. The publicity signs are built and installed in accordance with the standards of the National Strategic Reference Framework for Greece. The cost for the fencing of the works, the security measures and the necessary traffic arrangements is not included in the budget as a separate item. These works are required by the contractor in order to ensure the smooth operation on the site and the safety of workers and pedestrians. However, it is up to the national authorities to ensure the smooth implementation of the projects until the completion of the works.