P7_TA-PROV(2011)0290 Budgetary surveillance in euro area ***I A7-0180/2011 Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the effective enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area ( COM(2010)0524 – C7-0298/2010 – 2010/0278(COD) ) (Ordinary legislative procedure: first reading) The proposal was amended on 23 June 2011 as follows The matter was then referred back to committee pursuant to Rule 57(2), second subparagraph ( A7-0180/2011 ). : [Amendment No 2] AMENDMENTS BY PARLIAMENT * Amendments: new or amended text is highlighted in bold italics; deletions are indicated by the symbol ▌. to the Commission proposal REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the effective enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 136, in combination with Article 121(6) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Central Bank OJ C 150, 20.5.2011, p. 1. , After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee OJ C .... , Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, Whereas: (1) Member States whose currency is the euro have a particular interest and responsibility to conduct economic policies that promote the proper functioning of economic and monetary union and to avoid policies that jeopardise it. (2) The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) allows the adoption of specific measures in the euro area which go beyond the provisions applicable to all Member States, for the purpose of ensuring the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. (2a) Experience gained and mistakes made during the first decade of functioning of the economic and monetary union show a need for improved economic governance in the Union, which should be built on stronger national ownership of commonly agreed rules and policies and on a more robust surveillance framework at the Union level of national economic policies. (2b) The improved economic governance framework should rely on several inter-linked policies for sustainable growth and jobs, which need to be coherent with each other, in particular a Union strategy for growth and jobs, with particular focus upon development and strengthening of the internal market, fostering international trade and competitiveness, an effective framework for preventing and correcting excessive government deficit (the Stability and Growth Pact), a robust framework for preventing and correcting macro-economic imbalances, minimum requirements for national budgetary frameworks, enhanced financial market regulation and supervision including macro-prudential supervision by the European Systemic Risk Board. (2c) The Stability and Growth Pact and the complete economic governance framework should complement and be compatible with a Union strategy for growth and jobs. Inter linkages between the different strands should not provide for exemptions from the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact. (2d) Strengthening economic governance should include a closer and more timely involvement of the European Parliament and the national parliaments. (2e) Achieving