WRITTEN QUESTION E-0412/05 by Monica Frassoni (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (10 February 2005) Subject: Dams on the river Coruh (in north-east Turkish Kurdistan) To the north of Erzurum rises Kackar Daglari, one of the most beautiful mountains in Turkey, with considerable scenic, natural and cultural attractions. The geographical and physical limit of the mountain to the south is the river Coruh, which for its last few dozen kilometres flows north-east through Georgia before flowing into the Black Sea. The basin of the river Coruh is thus part of an environment the attractions of which include bears (whose survival is threatened by hunting) the red vulture (an endangered species) and other migratory birds of prey, as well as the vegetation, which includes about 160 endemic plant species. The main valley of the river and some of its tributaries are rich in historical and archaeological sites, since the region used to be part of the medieval kingdom of Georgia. In the last few years the beauty of the mountains and the rushing waters of the river Coruh have made the town of Yusufeli an ideal base for trekking and white-water rafting. The Turkish government intends to destroy the river and its environmental and archaeological heritage by means of a series of dams, the largest of which would be a 540 megawatt barrage downstream from Yusufeli. The project includes the construction of at least two other dams further downstream. Eighteen towns and villages would be submerged and around 30000 people would have to leave their homes because of the destruction. The ethnic minorities living in this region would be forced into exile, without the consolation and security of a relocation allowance, since the Turkish government ‘does not intend to assume the burden of the problem’. Despite the suspension of the project in 2002, when the construction consortium (British and French) was withdrawn as a result of an international campaign against it, work is due to start by the summer. Does the Commission not consider that Turkey’s status as an applicant country obliges it to adopt transparent and responsible procedures regarding these major works, including the adoption of project guidelines laid down by the World Commission on Dams? What steps will it take to ensure compliance with the directive on environmental impact assessment? What does the future hold for the populations involved in the project and what rights do the neighbouring countries have to use the natural resources?