Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (2 August 2006) In the Passenger Name Records (PNR) judgment of 30 May 2006, the Court decided that the Data Protection Directive Directive 95/46/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, OJ L 281, 23.11.1995. does not apply to transfers of PNR data to the United States (US) authorities because such transfers are necessary for safeguarding public security and for law-enforcement purposes and that, for the same reasons, Article 95 of the EC Treaty was not a correct legal basis for the Council decision Council Decision 2004/496/EC of 17 May 2004 on the conclusion of an agreement between the European Community and the United States of America on the processing and transfer of PNR data by air carriers to the United States Department of Homeland Security, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, OJ L 183, 20.5.2004. authorising conclusion of the agreement with the US. As a result, it is no longer possible to envisage a new agreement negotiated under Article 300 of the EC Treaty in order to ensure the application of the guarantees laid down by the directive, nor to seek the opinion of the Court under Article 300(6) as invoked by the Honourable Member. Following the Court ruling, the Commission acted quickly and adopted on 16 June 2006 two initiatives. The first one is a communication to the Council recommending the termination of the agreement with the US, taking the form of a joint Commission and Council letter to the US authorities. The second instrument consists of a recommendation to the Council for an authorisation for the Presidency, assisted by the Commission, to open negotiations for a new agreement with the US on the transfer and use of PNR data with the same content as the current agreement, namely to prevent and combat terrorism and transnational crime, based on Articles 38 and 24 of the Treaty on European Union. These initiatives were both sent to the Council on the same day and have been adopted on 27 June 2006. The Commission recommended to the Council to involve Parliament in the process. Time is running out, as a new agreement needs to be in place by 30 September 2006. The Commission has chosen to recommend to the Council to strive for a new agreement with the same content as the current one, especially as the level of data protection has not been criticised by the Court. The new agreement should include the same level of safeguards regarding legal security for air carriers, respect for human rights, notably the right to privacy, and the limited purposes for which the PNR data may be used. The Commission's aim is to limit the duration of the new agreement with the US so that it expires, like the current agreement, on 28 November 2007. At that point in time, there will be an opportunity to re-evaluate the situation and consider whether