judgement. The term of office of the independent members of the administrative or supervisory board and of the persons involved in the compliance function shall be for a pre-agreed fixed period not exceeding seven years and renewable once. The dismissal of independent members of the administrative or supervisory board and of the persons involved in the compliance function shall only take place in case of misconduct or professional underperformance. The majority of members of the administrative or supervisory board, including all of the persons involved in the compliance function shall have sufficient expertise in financial services. At least one independent member of this board and all persons involved in the compliance function sh all have in-depth knowledge and, where relevant, experience at a senior level of the structured credit and securitisation markets. Amendment 1 49 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section A – point 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. A credit rating agency shall establish organisational and administrative arrangements to identify, prevent and manage , conflicts of interest referred to in point 1 of Section B. It shall keep a record of all significant threats to its independence and that of its employees involved in the credit rating process, as well as the safeguards applied to mitigate those threats. 5. A credit rating agency shall establish appropriate and effective organisational and administrative arrangements to identify, prevent , manage , record, and disclose conflicts of interest referred to in point 1 of Section B. All significant threats to its independence and that of its employees involved in the credit rating process, as well as the safeguards applied to mitigate those threats shall be recorded . Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section A – point 7 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 7. A credit rating agency shall establish a review function responsible for periodically reviewing the methodologies, models and significant changes to methodologies and models it uses, as well as the appropriateness of those methodologies and models for the assessment of new financial instruments. 7. A credit rating agency shall establish an independent review function responsible for periodically reviewing the methodologies, models and key mathematical, correlation and other assumptions and any significant changes or modifications to them as well as the appropriateness of those methodologies , models and assumptions in the event of their use or proposed use for the assessment of new financial instruments. Amendment 15 1 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Credit rating agencies shall separate the decision-making process in regard to the original rating from the decision-making process in regard to the review and po ssible up or downgrading of the original rating of structured finance products. The analysts responsible for the original rating shall be different from those responsible for monitoring the rating. Amendment 15 2 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 3 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. A credit rating