of the Committee on International Trade ( A6‑0022/2004 ), A. whereas, specifically against the background of a post Cold War security climate characterised by a high level of regional instability, failing States, non-state players using child soldiers, terrorist networks and organised crime, observance of stringent controls on arms exports is of the highest importance, B. whereas the Council has identified some of these characteristics of a post Cold War security climate as amongst the key threats in the above-mentioned European Security Strategy, C. whereas organised crime and international arms smugglers have expanded their illegal activities in the area of small arms , the free and uncontrolled availability of which has been a major factor in the increase in the number of conflicts, and are trafficking weapons along routes which pass through the territory of the enlarged EU, and also through the new neighbouring countries of the enlarged EU and countries in the western Balkan region, D. whereas around half a million people die every year as a result of violence related to light arms, both in armed conflicts and in connection with criminal activity, E. whereas the last decade has seen a marked increase in the use of private security or military companies, which calls for the introduction of legislation to control and monitor the activities of private providers of military, police and security services, F. whereas the EU should fulfil its increased responsibility with regard to peace and security in Europe and throughout the world by means of further arms limitation and disarmament initiatives, G. whereas maximum transparency in this field, including the production of comprehensive Annual Reports, is an essential prerequisite for democratic accountability as the best guarantee of peace and stability, H. whereas the User's Guide to the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports is an important step forward in clarifying the denial notification and consultation provisions of the Code and in helping to prevent diverging interpretations in different Member States, I. whereas the Council Common Position on the control of arms brokering presents a first step in the control of illegal arms brokering but a number of weaknesses still need to be corrected in order for its effectiveness not to be undermined, J. whereas despite the progress made, it appears that EU weapons, their components, EU licences to produce arms overseas, private EU military and security services, EU military personnel, expertise and training and equipment for capital punishment, torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment continue to be supplied to regions of the world in which the standards laid down by the Code of Conduct are undoubtedly being flouted, K. whereas, in order to combat illegal arms trading and effectively prevent the supply of arms to inappropriate end-users, it is essential that arms shipments, end-users of arms exports, other military and security equipment, licensed production and arms brokering should be subject to more effective controls, L. whereas, specifically in the context of the development of a European armaments industry and a common security and defence policy, there needs to be greater harmonisation of EU arms