adopted and implemented; 5. Welcomes, in this regard, the announcement of the interim government to hold the referendum on the new constitution on 27 June 2010 and new general elections on 10 October 2010; 6. Stresses that a dynamic social policy and efforts to address cultural and educational issues are the best protection against excesses which leave people destitute and easily influenced, a prey to movements seeking to exploit their poverty for terrorist ends; 7. Stresses the danger involved in creating and manipulating popular militias; 8. Highlights in particular the importance of providing everyone with access to electricity supplies, the cost of which has apparently tripled over a very short time, profiting companies owned by President Bakiyev’s family; 9. Urges the interim government to make all efforts so as to create the conditions for and effective and transparent system that can curb the dominance of clan politics and stimulate political, social and economic development; 10. Points out that the Tulip Revolution of 2005 had created strong expectations of democratic reforms in the Kyrgyz society that did not materialise due also to the lack of coherence and assertiveness of the EU policy towards this country; calls on the Council and the Commission not to miss another opportunity and to find ways so as to assist the interim government of Kyrgyzstan and help the authorities to pursue democratic reforms and improve peoples’ lives through national development and empowerment of citizens in cooperation with all the stakeholders and the Kyrgyz civil society; 11. Notes that Kyrgyzstan’s deep lack of resources and vulnerability makes it highly dependent on outside support; also notes a severe shortage in its neighbourhood of models of democratic, well-functioning governance and of positive social development; stresses, in this regard, that international assistance will be crucially important; 12. Calls on the VP/HR’s Special Representative for Central Asia to follow closely the situation, provide assistance and facilitate the resumption of dialogue between all the components of the Kyrgyz society; urges him, at the same time, to work in close cooperation with the UN with a view to convening an international donors’ conference where to address the humanitarian problems and the basic needs of Kyrgyzstan and provide the necessary aid for the sustainable development of the country; 13. Calls on the Commission and the Council to urgently examine whether conditions for the launch of an internationally coordinated major new aid programme for Kyrgyzstan exist or can be created, taking into account not least how strong the Kyrgyz provisional government’s actual commitment to democratisation and clean government appears to be; 14. Calls for particular vigilance towards the risk of a North-South divide in the country, and for real support to enable Kyrgyzstan to develop its national identity in opposition to the tribal situation that currently divides it; 15. Calls for extensive use of the Instrument for Stability and asks the Commission to prepare proposals on re-allocations of funds of the Development Cooperation Instrument to help make sure that the short as well as medium term EU response to the new situation in Kyrgyzstan will be of