shall be carried out in respect of relevant security rules applicable to the Council and the Commission Council Decision 2001/264/EC adopting the Council's security regulation (OJ L 101, 11.4.2001, p. 1), as last amended by Decision 2007/438/EC (OJ L 164, 26.6.2007, p. 24). This text will be replaced by the "Council decision on the security rules for protecting EU classified information" (doc. 13885/1/09 REV 1, OJ L, p.). Commission's rules on security set out in the Annex to Commission Decision 2001/844/EC, ECSC, EURATOM (OJ L 317, 31.12.2001, p. 1), as last amended by Decision 2006/548/EC (OJ L 215, 5.8.2006, p. 38). ; - a permanent monitoring process shall ensure that security risks are known, security measures are defined to reduce such risks to an acceptable level in accordance with the basic principles and minimum standards set out in the security rules applicable to the Council and the Commission and that these measures are applied in line with the concept of defence in depth. The effectiveness of such measures shall be continuously evaluated; - security accreditation decisions shall, following the process defined in the security accreditation strategy, be based on local security accreditation decisions taken by the respective national security accreditation authorities of the Member States; - the technical security accreditation activities shall be entrusted to professionals, duly qualified in the field of accrediting complex systems and with an appropriate level of security clearance, acting objectively; - accreditation decisions shall be taken independently of the Commission, without prejudice to Article 3, and of the entities responsible for implementing the programmes. As a result, a security accreditation authority for European GNSS systems shall be, within the Agency, an autonomous body that takes its decisions independently; - security accreditation activities shall be carried out while reconciling the requirement for independence with the need for adequate coordination, between the Commission and the authorities responsible for implementing security provisions. Article 9b Security Accreditation Board 1. A Security Accreditation Board for European GNSS systems (hereinafter "the Board") shall be established within the Agency. As regards the European GNSS systems, this body shall have the tasks of the security accreditation authority, as referred to in the relevant security rules applicable to the Council and the Commission. 2. The Board shall perform the tasks entrusted to the Agency with regard to security accreditation under Article 16(a)(i) of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 and take "security accreditation decisions" as provided for in the present Article, in particular on the approval of the security accreditation strategy and of satellite launches, the authorisation to operate the systems in their different configurations and for the various services, the authorisation to operate the ground stations and in particular the sensor stations located in third States, as well as the authorisation to manufacture the receivers containing PRS technology and their components. 3. The security accreditation of systems by the Board shall consist of the establishment of the compliance of the systems with the security requirements referred to in Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 and in accordance with the relevant security rules and regulations applicable to