WRITTEN QUESTION E-2736/04 by José Ribeiro e Castro (PPE-DE) to the Commission (4 November 2004) Subject: Iusimpresa.com project In its reply to my earlier question ( E-2058/04 ) on this subject, the Commission referred to the portals www.ebusinesslex.net and www.emarketservices.com. and considered that they adequately served the initiatives it described and that this was sufficient coverage. I have visited these two portals and, although I fully support their specific objectives, I cannot however but consider them to be far from meeting all the political objectives defined by the Commission. In my view, it is important that, without prejudice to the support to be given to such portals, the Commission maintain an open attitude and support decentralised bodies providing this type of service, especially at university level, with a particularly high level of technical and scientific reliability and credibility. This applies to Iusimpresa.com. However, there are, no doubt, others, with the same guarantee of excellence and quality service. I have taken good note of the end of the Commission's answer, where it states that it would, however, be possible to carry out an in-depth study into ways in which new approaches to the existing portals, such as those described in the relevant written question, could be integrated, so as to determine the mutual benefits which could be derived from such cooperation. I would ask the Commission to support, in particular, and to stimulate efforts to present in all the official languages of the Union the contents of European legal information portals whose quality is well established and which would benefit the internal market. In view of the answer given and the particular features of the project in question, I wish to reiterate my question to the Commission: — Will it indicate whether a funding and aid mechanism to promote this type of project actually exists? If so, what procedures does it consider to be most appropriate for submitting proposals or candidatures?