g/l, which may not be exceeded in the formulation of the product ready for use ; Justification This modification is necessary to allow the use of reactive diluents, which are substances that behave like solvents during the application phase but then react to form part of the film of varnish, thus helping to reduce the emission of VOCs. Amendment 12 Article 2, paragraph 5 5. volatile organic compound (VOC) means any organic compound having a boiling point less than or equal to 250 °C measured at a standard pressure of 101.3kPA; 5 volatile organic compound (VOC) means any organic compound having a boiling point less than or equal to 280 ° C measured at a standard pressure of 101.3kPA; Justification The current VOC definition in the Commission's text excludes solvents such as Texanol, which are harmful to the environment and human health and would mislead consumers, The 280°C boiling point definition, which is strongly recommended by the Decopaint Study (European Study on the Potential for Reducing Emission from VOCs due to the use of Decorative Paints and Varnishes for Professional and Non-Professional use), provides consumers with an accurate definition of VOCs and is in line with the aim of this proposal to reduce VOC content in paints. Amendment 13 Article 2, paragraph 6 6. organic solvent means any VOC which is used alone or in combination with other agents, and without undergoing a chemical change, to dissolve raw materials, products, or waste materials, or is used as a cleaning agent to dissolve contaminants, or as a dispersion medium, or as a viscosity adjuster, or as a surface tension adjuster, or as a plasticiser, or as a preservative; 6. organic solvent means any VOC which is used alone or in combination with other agents to dissolve or dilute raw materials, products, or waste materials, or is used as a cleaning agent to dissolve contaminants, or as a dispersion medium, or as a viscosity adjuster, or as surface tension adjuster or as a plasticiser, or as a preservative , or as a reactive diluent or as a paint stripper. Justification Organic solvents should also include: VOCs that are used to dilute products (thinners); VOCs that undergo or will potentially undergo chemical change. Reactive diluents e.g. some glycidyl ethers and styrene, which are intended to undergo chemical binding as the last step are also a VOC. These can be emitted before undergoing the intended chemical reaction and VOCs that are used as paint strippers. Thinners and strippers are important contributors to VOC emissions, therefore it is important these products are include even though they are only indirectly regulated here. Amendment 14 Article 2, paragraph 7 7. coating means any preparation, including all the organic solvents or preparations containing organic solvents necessary for its proper application, which is used to provide a decorative, protective or other functional effect on a surface; 7. coating means any preparation, including all the organic solvents or preparations containing organic solvents necessary for its proper application, which is used to provide a film with decorative, protective and/or other specific effects on