2007): In this phase the plan for the modernisation of air traffic management in Europe is to be drawn up: The technological steps are to be taken and the priorities for modernisation as well as the corresponding timetables are to be defined. This phase will require a budget of €60 million, half of which shall be provided by the Community from the TEN-T budget. The other half shall come from Eurocontrol. 2. The development phase (2008 - 2013): In this phase the technological bases for the new generation of systems will be established. This phase requires a funding of €300 million per year: €100 million of Community funds (this phase ends with the financial framework 2007-2013), €100 million from Eurocontrol and €100 million from the industry. The Community funds would come from the research and development framework programmes and from the trans-European networks. 3. The deployment phase (2014 - 2020) : The deployment phase will see the large-scale installation of the new systems and the implementation of the related functions. In the deployment phase the industry will be fully responsible for the financing. Remarks Your rapporteur in principle welcomes this Commission proposal. SESAR is a necessary component of the single European sky. However, several aspects of the draft Regulation as well as of the statutes require some clarification and redrafting. Firstly, it has to be noted that industry has repeatedly expressed its commitment to SESAR as an integrated approach to the modernisation of the air traffic management system in Europe. In order to make SESAR a success, it must be ensured that all parties work closely together and that industry is appropriately involved in all phases. SESAR has to be an industry initiative and the private sector must consequently be enabled to acquire a sufficient number of voting rights in the administrative board. That is why your draftsman suggests reducing the number of voting rights for the Community: Its voting rights should be limited to 25% of the total number of votes. As to Eurocontrol, its role should be reconsidered: Eurocontrol should be a Member of the Administrative Board in a technical / advisory capacity only. Secondly, on the question of financing the Commission envisages 1/3 Community funds, 1/3 Eurocontrol contributions and 1/3 from the industry in the development phase. Your rapporteur thinks public and private sector financing should be in equal measures during this particular phase and tables an amendment on this point. As for the deployment phase the Commission concept is plausible - this phase is to be financed completely by the industry. The idea of an additional levy on air navigation charges should be dropped. Your rapporteur feels that user charges are sufficiently high. Via Eurocontrol funds user charges will already contribute to the financing of SESAR. On the basis of a successful definition phase, it should be possible to raise the necessary means from the private and public sectors without creating yet another levy. It should be added that there are concerns about the legal base of this proposal: The Commission has chosen Article 171 of the Treaty