Strategy and by the Integrated Guidelines for Growth and Jobs. Amendment 3 Proposal for a directive Recital 5 a (new) (5a) In an increasingly global labour market, the European Union should increase its attractiveness to workers, in particular highly qualified workers, from third countries. That objective can be more effectively achieved by granting privileges, e.g. particular derogations, and by making it possible to have easier access to relevant information. Amendment 4 Proposal for a directive Recital 6 (6) To achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Process it is also important to foster the mobility within the Union of highly qualified workers who are EU citizens, and in particular from the Member States which acceded in 2004 and 2007. In implementing this Directive, Member States are bound to respect the principle of Community preference as expressed in particular in the relevant provisions of the Acts of Accession of 16 April 2003 and 25 April 2005. (6) To achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Process it is also important to foster the mobility within the Union of highly qualified workers who are EU citizens, and in particular from the Member States which acceded in 2004 and 2007. In the implementation of this Directive, the principle of Community preference as expressed in particular in the relevant provisions of the Acts of Accession of 16 April 2003 and 25 April 2005 should be respected. Amendment 5 Proposal for a directive Recital 10 (10) This Directive should provide for a flexible demand-driven entry system, based on objective criteria such as a minimum salary threshold comparable with the wage levels in the Member States and on professional qualifications. The definition of a common minimum denominator for the national wage threshold is necessary to ensure a minimum level of harmonisation in the admission conditions throughout the EU . Member States should fix their national threshold accordingly to the situation of their respective labour markets and their general immigration policies. (10) This Directive should provide for a flexible demand-driven entry system, based on objective criteria such as professional qualifications. Application of the principle of "equal pay for equal work" is necessary to ensure that EU nationals and third-country nationals are treated equally . Amendment 6 Proposal for a directive Recital 11 (11) Derogations from the main scheme in terms of the salary threshold should be laid down for highly qualified applicants under 30 years of age who, due to their relatively limited professional experience and their position on the labour market, may not be in a position to fulfil the salary requirements of the main scheme, or for those who have acquired their higher education qualifications in the European Union. deleted Amendment 7 Proposal for a directive Recital 15 a (new) (15a) In the case of intra-EU mobility from one Member State to another after renewal of an EU Blue Card, cross-border commuting may be an option for the EU Blue Card holder. As the EU Blue Card combines a work and residence permit, it does not offer the option of commuting to another Member State for the purpose of