Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (24 September 2010) According to Article 6 of the Data Protection Directive, personal data must be processed fairly and lawfully. Data must be collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further processed in a way incompatible with those purposes. Monitoring of the compliance with national provisions transposing EU data protection legislation is in the first place the responsibility of national authorities in particular the national supervisory data protection authorities. This means that, in principle, only those national authorities can take measures against a possible non-compliance with national data protection rules by a company. As guardian of the Treaties, the Commission monitors closely the application of the directive by the national authorities. Article 7 of the Directive 95/46/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (‘Data Protection Directive’) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995. sets up criteria for making data processing legitimate. In the case of a Facebook account, the criterion would be in particular the unambiguously given consent of a data subject. Consent is defined, in Article 2(h) of this directive, as a freely given, specific and informed indication of a data subject's wishes by which he agrees to personal data relating to him being processed. Therefore an ‘opt-out’ mechanism would not be sufficient. The Data Protection Directive imposes obligations on data controllers and confers rights upon data subjects. The obligations of data controllers include processing data fairly and lawfully. Data controllers are also obliged to provide data subjects with information and grant data subjects the right of access to or deletion of their data. The Data Protection Directive is currently undergoing a thorough review. The issues of the phenomenon of online social networking sites and effective protection of personal data will be considered by the Commission. As regards to Google street view, it has to be pointed out that a notion of personal data is very broadly defined in the Data Protection Directive — being it any information relating to an identified or identifiable individual. However, a mere picture of a house (without any depiction of individuals or any additional information revealing personal data) might not be considered as personal data. It has to be noted that an ex-post objection mechanism does not constitute a substitute for consent. Therefore, unless a consent has been given, and absent any other justification, this would mean that personal data cannot be processed in the context of Google street view. Therefore, the basic principle for the operation of Google Street view should be data avoidance. In any case, in the interests of transparency, information should be provided in advance about the collection of data that could also include personal data by service providers being data controllers, not only on their website, but also by means of information in the national, regional or local press or by any other appropriate means. Positive measures should be taken by the controllers to avoid