Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (2 March 2011) 1. The ‘Ceramica 2’ project has been selected under the Marco Polo II Call for Proposals 2007. The beneficiary has been awarded with a grant of EUR 4 million, 2.8 million of which has been paid as pre-financing. The decision on termination of the Grant Agreement has been made due to the failure of fulfilling a substantial contractual obligation according to Article II.11.3(b) of the Grant Agreement: lack of the foreseen re-start of the service, which should have taken place at the latest in October 2009 after a 6 months suspension agreed by EACI. The Commission has taken into an account the impact of economical crises on Logitec. Before terminating the Grant Agreement and in compliance with the funding conditions and requirements set out in Annex of the regulation (EC) 1692/2006 http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=OJ:L:2006:328:0001:0013:EN:PDF of 24 October 2006, as amended, a maximum allowed 6-month suspension was granted to the beneficiary for the period starting from 15 April 2009. However, after the expiration of the 6 months, the beneficiary has still not provided sufficient evidence of effectively restarting the sustainable service as foreseen by the Grant Agreement. Actually, the Marco Polo action was running at slow pace only in total for four months over two and a half year period. After the decision to terminate the Grant Agreement, the beneficiary did not provide on time a final report as set in the contractual time limits. The submission of these reports is also one of the substantial obligations under the Grant Agreement. The Commission is bound by the principle of sound financial management when implementing the Budget of the European Communities. Therefore, on the basis of the above assessment, the Commission regrets to inform you that unfortunately ‘Ceramica 2’ Marco Polo project cannot be restarted. 2. According to the Marco Polo rules, applicable for the 2007 Call for Proposals, the amount of the grant for modal shift actions is calculated on the basis of three elements: a. 1 euro for every 500 tkm/2 000m 3 km shifted off the road, b. 35 % of all eligible costs of the action, c. cumulative deficit throughout the duration of the action. The maximum subsidy equals the lowest value of elements a, b, c. Consequently, as the project has not delivered modal shift (element ‘a’), the amounts of pre-financing has to be returned regardless the amount of eligible costs incurred with regard to implementation of the project.