Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (27 February 2008) The Commission has not changed its position on treatment to remove nitrogen from waste water discharges in the Bothnian Bay catchment area. The Commission, under the Convention of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area (Helcom), adopted in November 2007 the Baltic Sea Action Plan (BSAP). It should be noted at the outset that the BSAP does not have the same legal status as the Convention. It includes a mix of operational decisions, recommendations and provisional figures, which are subject to review. For the EU the BSAP represents an important step forward as it includes commitments for all the Baltic Sea littoral States and thus complements already existing EU legislation (such as e.g. the Nitrates Directive Council Directive 91/676/EEC of 12 December 1991 concerning the protection of waters against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources, OJ L 375, 31.12.1991. and the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive Council Directive 91/271/EEC of 21 May 1991 concerning urban waste-water treatment, OJ L 135, 30.5.1991. ) and commitments under International Law. As regards eutrophication, the action plan duly includes, among other things, provisionally agreed nutrient input reduction targets, to progress towards an objective of ‘water clarity’ in the Baltic Sea. The BSPA action is explicitly without prejudice to existing obligations under EC law and Helcom recommendations, including those relating to waste water treatment, which therefore remain fully applicable. To reach these reduction targets, the Baltic Sea countries will develop national programmes, by 2010, designed to achieve the required reductions. For those Contracting Parties of Helcom which are also Member States, this must of course be read against the background of their obligations under EC law. The application by the Commission of 19 September 2007 to the Court of Justice against Sweden is based on a Reasoned Opinion delivered in 2004 under Article 226 of the EC Treaty. Following further submissions by Sweden after the Reasoned Opinion, the Commission has come to the conclusion that Sweden — contrary to other Member States in the catchment of the Baltic Sea such as Denmark and Germany — has not yet fully complied with its obligations under Article 5 of the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive.