act independently from political or other bodies when carrying out his/her tasks. A third principle is accountability to the European public for policy decisions and the performance of duties. A fourth principle, which is related to the previous one, is transparency. Monetary policy decisions must be explained to the public so that they are understood as contributing to the attainment of the policy objectives, given the available information. In particular, transparency enhances the effectiveness of monetary policy in achieving its primary objective to maintain price stability in the euro area. A fifth principle is to act in the general interest of the euro area as a whole. A European Central Banker’s decisions must be based on a European perspective and not a national one. Sixth, collegiality in the functioning of the decision making bodies of the ECB. Without limiting freedom of expression on policy matters, collegiality strengthens decision making and the effectiveness of central bank policies. Finally, observing the highest standard of ethical conduct, acting honestly and impartially, and avoiding situations which could give rise to a conflict of interests are also important principles. Abiding by the above guiding principles is necessary for the effective performance of the duties of a European Central Banker and for maintaining and promoting public trust in the European Central Bank. B. Monetary and economic policy 6. Which is your position as to the current definition of price stability used by the ECB? Do you believe that this is the right approach and why? I believe the ECB’s definition of price stability provides an appropriate quantification of the primary objective of monetary policy in the euro area. In this sense I fully support the decision on this definition which was taken by the Governing Council of the ECB in October 1998. The basic rationale behind the ECB’s choice was also clearly explained in a letter by the President, Mr. Duisenberg, to the Chairperson of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, Ms Randzio-Plath, dated 16 October 2001. I would in particular like to stress the following points: First, the ECB's definition matches the clear demand of European citizens for low inflation and it is consistent with the objectives of many central banks in the euro area before Stage Three of EMU. Second, the definition of price stability in terms of a range recognises the uncertainty inherent in monetary policy-making and thereby avoids giving the impression of spurious accuracy in the ECB’s ability to fine-tune price developments. Third, the definition serves well the function of steering long-term inflation expectations. Fourth, neither prolonged inflation nor prolonged deflation are consistent with the ECB’s definition of price stability. Moreover, the definition provides for a safety margin against the specific risks associated with deflation. It also acknowledges the possible existence of a small positive bias in measuring inflation by the HICP and the uncertainty regarding its magnitude. Finally, the notion that “price stability is to be maintained over the medium term” provides an appropriate framework for the ECB’s accountability as it acknowledges the lags in the transmission of the effects of monetary policy