dimensions of the order of 100 nm or less", and often distinguishing between: – nano-objects, defined as “discrete pieces of materials with one, two or three external dimensions at the nanoscale”, i.e. as materials constituted by isolated objects with very small dimensions, – nano-structured materials, defined as materials “having an internal or surface structure at the nanoscale”, e.g. exhibiting cavities of small dimensions, H. whereas the almost infinite application of nanotechnologies to such diverse sectors as electronics, textiles, biomedicals, personal care products, cleaning products, food or energy makes it impossible to introduce a single regulatory framework at Community level, I. whereas there is no clear information about the actual use of nanomaterials in consumer products, for instance: – while inventories by renowned institutions list more than 800 manufacturer-identified nanotechnology-based consumer products currently on the market, trade associations of the same manufacturers question these figures, on the basis that they are overestimations, without providing any concrete figures themselves, – while companies happily use "nano-claims", as the term “nano” seems to have a positive marketing effect, they are strictly opposed to objective labelling requirements, J. whereas the lack of clarity about the actual use of nanomaterials in consumer products is unlikely to change, unless there are clear notification requirements on the use of nanomaterials, as well as full enforcement of Directive 2006/114/EC, K. whereas presentations about the potential benefits of nanotechnologies predict an almost infinite diversity of future applications of nanomaterials , but fail to provide reliable information about current uses, L. whereas there is a major debate about the possibility of assessing the safety of nanomaterials; whereas the scientific committees and Agencies of the European Union point to major deficiencies not only in key data, but even in methods of obtaining such data; whereas the European Union thus needs to invest more into adequate assessment of nanomaterials to close the knowledge gaps and to develop and implement as fast as possible, and, in collaboration with its agencies and international partners, methods of evaluation and an appropriate and harmonised metrology and nomenclature, M. whereas SCENIHR identified some specific health hazards as well as toxic effects on environmental organisms for some nanomaterials, and considered that these observations indicate potential hazards which should be taken into consideration, N. whereas SCENIHR furthermore found a general lack of high quality exposure data both for humans and the environment and expects risk assessment procedures to remain under development until there is sufficient scientific information available to characterise the possible harmful effects on humans and the environment, thus concluding that the knowledge on the methodology for both exposure estimates and hazard identification needs to be further developed, validated and standardised, O. whereas the combination of evidence of hazards for certain nanomaterials and the overall lack of methods to properly assess the risks of nanomaterials is a reason for concern, P. whereas current funding into the environmental, health and safety aspects of nanomaterials in FP7 is far too low; whereas moreover the evaluation criteria for granting research projects to assess the safety of nanomaterials under FP7 are too restrictive (i.e. they