any of the thresholds referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3, that investment firm is to inform the competent authority without delay. At least once a year, investment firms shall also inform the competent authority of the names of shareholders and members possessing qualifying holdings and the sizes of such holdings as shown, for example, by the information received at annual general meetings of shareholders and members or as a result of compliance with the regulations applicable to companies whose transferable securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market. 6. Member States shall require that, where the influence exercised by the persons referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1 is likely to be prejudicial to the sound and prudent management of an investment firm, the competent authority takes appropriate measures to put an end to that situation. Such measures may consist in applications for judicial orders and/or the imposition of sanctions against directors and those responsible for management, or suspension of the exercise of the voting rights attaching to the shares held by the shareholders or members in question. Similar measures shall be taken in respect of persons who fail to comply with the obligation to provide prior information in relation to the acquisition or increase of a qualifying holding. If a holding is acquired despite the opposition of the competent authorities, the Member States shall, regardless of any other sanctions to be adopted, provide either for exercise of the corresponding voting rights to be suspended, for the nullity of the votes cast or for the possibility of their annulment. Article 10 Membership of an authorised Investor Compensation Scheme The competent authority shall verify that any entity seeking authorisation as an investment firm meets its obligations under European Parliament and Council Directive 97/9/EC of 3 March 1997 on investor compensation schemes OJ L 84, 26.3.1997, p. 22. at the time of authorisation. Article 11 Initial capital endowment 1. Member States shall ensure that the competent authority does not grant authorisation unless the investment firm has sufficient initial capital in accordance with the requirements of Directive 93/6/EEC having regard to the nature of the investment service in question. 2. Member States shall ensure that investment firms exempted from the scope of Directive 93/6/EEC, pursuant to points (c) and (d) of Article 2(2) thereof, have sufficient financial capacity. Such measures shall take one or more of the following forms: a) minimum initial capital of EUR 50 000; b) professional indemnity insurance covering the whole territory of the Community or some other comparable guarantee against liability arising from professional negligence, representing at least EUR 1 000 000 applying to each claim and in aggregate EUR 1 500 000 per year for all claims; or c) a combination of points (a) and (b), in a form resulting in protection equivalent to one of them. The Member States need not apply the provisions of this paragraph to investment companies that already comply with them under Directive 2002/92/EC. 3. The amounts referred to in paragraph 2 shall be periodically reviewed by the Commission