I. Background The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. According to the provisions of point 28 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 on budgetary discipline and sound financial management OJ C 139, 14.6.2006, p. 1. and of the Article 12 of Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 OJ L 406, 30.12.2006, p. 1. , the Fund may not exceed a maximum amount of EUR 500 million, drawn from any the margin under the global expenditure ceiling from the previous year, and / or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to Heading 1b. The appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and / or cancelled commitments have been identified. As concerns the procedure, in order to activate the Fund the Commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the Fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. In parallel, a trilogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the Fund and the amounts required. The trilogue can take a simplified form. II. State of play: Commission's proposal On 5 November 2010 the Commission has adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of Spain in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. This is the thirtieth application to be examined under the budget 2010 and refers to the mobilisation of a global amount of EUR 382.200 from the EGF for Spain. It concerns 515 redundancies (of which 508 targeted for assistance) in the enterprise Lear Automotive (EEDS) Spain, which operates in the automotive sector in Catalonia, during the fourth-month reference period from 14 January to 14 May 2010. The application, case EGF/2010/023 ES/Lear was submitted to the Commission on 23 July 2010 and supplemented by additional information up to 10 August 2010. It was based on the intervention criterion of Art. 2 (a) of the EGF Regulation, which requires at least 500 redundancies over a four-month period in an enterprise, including its suppliers and downstream producers, and was submitted within the deadline of 10 weeks (Art. 5 of the Regulation). Commission's assessment was based on the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis, the unforeseen nature of the concerned redundancies, demonstration of number of redundancies and compliance with the criteria of Article 2 (a), explanation of the unforeseen nature of those redundancies, identification of dismissing enterprises and workers targeted for assistance, the territory concerned and its authorities and stakeholders, the impact for the redundancies as regards the local, regional or national employment, co-ordinated package of personalised services to be funded, including its compatibility with actions funded by the Structural Funds, dates on