to evaluate the Lamfalussy process, given that it comprises four levels and that to date the first series of implementing measures has only just been published (December 2003), and only in the case of one directive, the market abuse directive. 2) Commission proposal Irrespective of the above considerations, the Commission presented on 5 November 2003 a package of texts designed to extend the Lamfalussy process - currently limited to securities - to banking, insurance and collective investment undertakings. This would mean that the whole of the financial services sector would be covered by the Lamfalussy approach. The main provision is the proposal for a directive which is the subject of this report and the purpose of which is to establish a new organisational structure for committees responsible for financial services. Under the new proposed structure, regulatory committees are to be created for banking and insurance and the powers of the European Securities Committee are to be extended to cover undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS). These new regulatory committees are intended to replace the committees which exist under previous legislation concerning banking, insurance and occupational pensions, collective investment undertakings and financial conglomerates. Why introduce such regulatory committees? Apart from the parallel organisational structure which the Commission wishes to introduce in relation to the securities sector, the proposals also appear to reflect the political will on the part of the Commission that new legislative provisions relating to these sectors should be adopted through delegated legislation measures in accordance with the Lamfalussy process, which is not currently possible. The institutional implications are again clearly important, since the original issue of the institutional balance between Parliament and the Council has not been resolved. The proposed text consists of a total of 11 articles containing provisions amending directives relating to the banking sector, the insurance and occupational pensions sector, the securities sector and financial conglomerates. By way of further measures, the Commission has decided to introduce, solely at the consultation level , a series of decisions concerning, in respect of levels 1 and 2, the European Banking Committee (EBC), the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee (EIOPC) and the European Securities Committee (ESC) and, in respect of level 3, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors (CEBS), the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pension Supervisors (CEIOPS) and the Committee of European Securities Regulators (CESR). To sum up, Parliament is only called upon to give its opinion on the directive which comes under the codecision procedure establishing new regulatory committees in the area of banking and insurance. 3) Our assessment of the extension of the Lamfalussy process So as to immediately dispel any misunderstandings, we should clearly stress that the Commission proposal does not pose any particular difficulties for us at a technical level . - However, at the political level the situation is quite different, and we first wish to ask the key question : do we have sufficient experience to enable us to evaluate the effectiveness of the Lamfalussy process and, on that basis, to give an opinion on the extension of the