at EUR 380 million . During implementation of the programme, the amount to be committed for the implementation of each specific objective shall be not less than 25% of the total budget. Amendment 38 Article 8, paragraph 1, point (e) (e) the arrangements for the preparation of any structural arrangements for the coordination of health monitoring and rapid reaction to health threats; Deleted Amendment 39 Article 11 In the course of implementing the programme, cooperation with third countries and with international organisations competent in the sphere of public health, in particular the World Health Organisation as well as the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, shall be encouraged in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 9(3). In particular, the health information system and the capacity to respond to health threats should be, where appropriate and possible, coordinated with the activities of the World Health Organisation. In the course of implementing the programme, cooperation with third countries and with international organisations competent in the sphere of public health, in particular the World Health Organisation, the Council of Europe, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the WTO (World Trade Organisation) and the FAO (United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation) shall be encouraged in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 9(3). In particular, the health information system and the capacity to respond to health threats should be, where appropriate and possible, coordinated with the activities of the World Health Organisation. Amendment 40 Article 11 a (new) Article 11a Cooperation with relevant Community bodies Cooperation shall be fostered with Community bodies in relevant areas of work, in particular those bodies responsible for food and feed safety, environmental protection and product safety. Amendment 41 Article 12, paragraph 1 1. The Commission, in close cooperation with the Member States, shall regularly monitor, where appropriate with the help of experts, the implementation of the actions of the programme in the light of the objectives. It shall report annually to the Committee. 1. The Commission, in close cooperation with the Member States, shall regularly monitor, where appropriate with the help of experts, the implementation of the actions of the programme in the light of the objectives. It shall report annually to the Committee and the European Parliament. Amendment 43 Annex, point 1.5. 1.5. improving analysis and knowledge of the impact of health policy developments and of other Community policies and activities, such as the internal market as it affects health systems, in contributing to a high level of human health protection, including developing criteria and methodologies for assessing policies for their impact on health and developing other links between public health and other policies; 1.5. improving analysis and knowledge of the impact of the development of an integrated and intersectoral health strategy and of other Community policies and activities, such as the internal market as it affects health systems, in contributing to a high level of human health protection, including developing criteria and methodologies for assessing policies for their impact on health and developing other links between public health and