Answer given by Ms Grybauskaitė on behalf of the Commission (6 January 2009) The Commission disposes of a number of bank accounts opened, in each Member States, in its name by its Accounting Officer. These bank accounts are used to make payments in execution of the EU budget. The Commission's paying system is designed and set up in such a way that EU own resources, transferred on a monthly basis by Member States, remain with the national treasuries or central banks on an account opened in the name of the Commission. Funds are drawn down from these accounts and transferred to accounts opened with commercial banks on a ‘just in time basis’ to enable relatively low value payments to be made, within an immediate period of three days. In the context of the current financial turmoil, monitoring of the financial situation of banks with which the Commission has opened such accounts has been increased. One of the measures implemented for this purpose is the more frequent monitoring of the long term and short term ratings of all major commercial banks with which the Commission has operations. High value payments (specifically in the fields of agriculture and the cohesion fund) are generally made directly to the beneficiaries from the accounts opened with national banks or treasuries. In addition to the accounts opened within each Member State, the Commission uses a number of bank accounts related to imprest accounts operated in its Delegations around the world. The list of the countries where these accounts are held is sent directly to the Honourable Member and to Parliament's Secretariat. These bank accounts are operated to enable the functioning of the EC Delegation offices and therefore, as a general rule, these accounts remain open permanently. Moreover, a competitive review of bank accounts is carried out by each delegation on a five-yearly basis. Funds deposited on these accounts are rigorously monitored both by the Delegation and by the Accounting Officer's services and the amounts concerned are restricted to a ceiling that corresponds to the funds to allow the necessary administrative functioning of the Delegation for a period of three months. Each month a statement of expenditure is established and validated. The bank account is then replenished up to the amount of money spent during the month. If particular situations occur in one of these countries (uprisings, local bank crises, etc.) the ‘three months’ ceiling can be reduced to a lower amount giving rise to more frequent replenishments. It is considered that the current controls are sufficient in the present financial environment.