Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (9 August 2010) European banking legislation Directive 2006/48/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and Directive 2006/49/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions, OJ L 177, 30.6.2006. does not contain specific rules over lending to football clubs or any other particular sector of the economy. European legislation only lays down general rules concerning banking supervision including the approaches that banks must comply with for the assessment and management of credit risk. The responsibility to monitor banks' compliance with these rules lay with national financial supervisory authorities. It is therefore the task of these authorities to gather information and to monitor risks as to credit exposures to football clubs of European credit institutions and risks for financial stability possibly resulting therefrom, including whether the debt might cause problems to banks. The Commission relies on these actors and does not therefore have specific information of its own about risks stemming from this specific business. The ECB has neither supervisory authority, nor regulatory powers to direct bank lending policies. The Commission would also like to draw the Honourable Member's attention to self-regulatory measures taken by the football sector to reduce the overall level of debt of clubs. On 27 May 2010, UEFA's Executive Committee approved the Financial Fair Play Regulations with the aim of ensuring the long-term financial stability of European football clubs. The Commission considers that the rationale of UEFA's plan seems to be in accordance with one of the objectives of the EU's action in the field of sport, namely with the promotion of fairness in sporting competitions (Article 165 TFEU). The Commission also notes that any measure taken in this framework has to respect the EU's Internal Market and competition rules.