Answer given by High Representative/Vice- President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (8 February 2011) In reaction to the death sentence for blasphemy passed against Asia Bibi by a local court in Pakistan’s Nakana District a number of steps have been taken by the European Union. On 12 November 2010, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy and Vice President of the Commission, Catherine Ashton, through her spokesperson, expressed deep concern over the conviction of Ms Asia Bibi. She called on Pakistan to respect human rights guaranteed under international conventions to which the country is a party. On 22 November 2010, the EU Head of Delegation, on behalf of the Heads of Mission of the European Union in Islamabad, wrote to Prime Minister Gilani, noting Pakistan’s ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in June 2010, stressing that the death sentence for blasphemy significantly impacts upon Pakistan’s international standing, given the internationally accepted principle of the need to allow freedom of expression and belief, and calling upon the Government of Pakistan to more actively promote and protect freedom of expression and religious belief by early reform of the blasphemy legislation. In this context, the efforts being undertaken by Pakistan’s Ministry of Minorities in seeking to amend the more controversial aspects of the blasphemy legislation are encouraging. The EU supports an early adoption of the proposed amendments; furthermore, total repeal of the blasphemy laws, and the death penalty, should be considered by Pakistan. The Commission would agree that blasphemy charges often appear to be based on false accusations levied to settle personal disputes and are used to incite hatred and instigate community violence against all religious groups and/or minorities such as Muslims, Christians, Ahmadis, Sikhs, Kalash, Hindus and others, and that the blasphemy legislation is ambiguous and can be exploited by, and serves as encouragement to, the more extremist religious fringes of society. The EU believes that Asia Bibi is entitled to the strictest observance of independent and impartial trial guarantees, as well as the safeguards applicable to death penalty cases. Moreover, the EUexpects that she will receive adequate legal assistance when the Higher Courts hear her appeal. The EU trusts that with magnanimity on the part of the Court, this procedure may come to a swift and fair resolution so that she can be acquitted or pardoned and released without delay. Ratification and effective implementation of relevant human rights conventions is a requirement for possible inclusion under the Generalised System of Preferences — Special Incentive Arrangement for Sustainable Development and Good Governance (GSP+) scheme.These issues will be examined according to normal procedures should Pakistan apply for GSP+. In as far as the rights of religious minorities in general are concerned, the EU has consistently used its political dialogue with Pakistan to raise human rights issues, and there have been a number of diplomatic demarches. This has been complemented from 2007 onwards with the human rights dialogue under the cooperation agreement with Pakistan, which allows for regular and two-way dialogue on governance and human rights.