under article 54 of the European Patent Convention and thus no longer a invention that can be considered to be a “novelty” under this convention, which is binding upon the EU Member States. Control of the management of the common structure The Commission must ensure a sufficient control of the management of the Community contribution by the EDCTP-EEIG, which as the common structure is the legal entity managing the programme and the sole beneficiary of the Community contribution. (Amendment 2) The draftsman fully supports the line taken by the main Rapporteur to introduce in an Annex more detailed rules for the common structure. Evaluation The Commission shall submit an evaluation report of the management of the Community contribution at mid-term of the programme and after the end of the programme period. (Amendment 3) AMENDMENT TO THE LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION Amendment 1 [The European Parliament] Considers that the financial statement of the Commission proposal is compatible with the ceiling of heading 3 of the financial perspective without restricting other policies; Justification The amount proposed for the specific programme shall be compatible with the expenditure ceilings under the financial perspective. If, in the course of the adoption of the decision, other amounts were to be proposed by the legislative authority, the budgetary authority would need to be consulted again. In this case, the Committee on Budgets would re-examine the impact on the ceiling under the current financial perspective, according to the declaration of 20 July 2000. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C ........... Amendments by Parliament Amendment 2 Article 4 The Commission and the Court of Auditors may, through their officials or agents, carry out all the checks and inspections needed to ensure proper management of the Community funds and protect the financial interests of the Community against any fraud or irregularity. To this end, the participating States and the common structure shall make all relevant documents available to the Commission and the Court of Auditors. The Commission and the Court of Auditors may, through their officials or agents, carry out all the checks and inspections needed to ensure proper management of the Community funds and protect the financial interests of the Community against any fraud or irregularity. The Commission shall ensure control of the Community funds managed by the common structure. To this end, the participating States and the common structure shall make all relevant documents available to the European Parliament, the Commission and the Court of Auditors. Justification A sufficient control over the common structure has to be ensured by the Commission. The relevant documents should be made available to the European Parliament. Amendment 3 Article 5 The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and calls on the participating States and the common structure to forward any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the