their right under the Treaty, namely to collect signatures in favour of an initiative. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10) It is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected in paper form as well as online . Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia , that the person can be identified and that the data are securely stored. For this purpose, the Commission should be required to set out detailed technical specifications for online collection systems. (10) In order to put modern technology to good use as a tool of participatory democracy, it is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected online as well as in paper form. Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia , that the person signs only once and that the data are securely stored. The detailed technical specifications should be worked out at an expert level and should be regularly adapted to technical developments; the power to adopt detailed technical specifications for online collection systems should therefore be delegated to the Commission . Justification This amendment is aimed at giving the reasons for the provisions and justifies the use of delegated acts. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Recital 13 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (13) It is appropriate that the Commission should take a decision on the admissibility of proposed initiatives at a sufficiently early stage. The organiser should therefore request such a decision after it has collected 300.000 statements of support for the proposed initiative from signatories coming from at least three Member States. deleted Justification The admissibility check is abolished. Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14) The Commission should, within a period of two months after receiving a request from the organiser, adopt a decision on its admissibility. A proposed citizens' initiative should be considered admissible if it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission and concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties. deleted Justification The admissibility check is abolished. Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) It is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories and provided it is considered admissible , each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. (15) In the absence of a competent Union electoral authority, it is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support