49. Calls on all states to implement the UN Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects; 50. Urges the EU to make the sale or import of illegally sourced timber or timber products an offence, and calls on the governments of the EU Member States to introduce new legislation which prohibits the sale or import of timber which has been sourced in contravention of the laws of another state, or legislation which establishes external standards which products would be required to meet; A new architecture - "Enterprise development" 51. Takes the view that the faster liberalisation of trade has given rise to new problems, particularly in connection with issues concerning social rights, employment, the environment and the balance of power among the various international organisations; believes that in order to address the problems, action is required to ensure that trade rules and rules concerning social rights, employment, the environment, etc. are compatible and mutually reinforcing; 52. Calls for the EU to adopt the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises as a cornerstone of future trade and development policies; 53. Notes that new proposals are also needed to advance ethical investment, enterprise development, socially-responsible investing and consumption, full-cost prices, life-cycle costing and all the other ways of promoting sustainable human development; 54. Further emphasises that indigenous peoples and their communities should benefit from such proposals, recognising their important role for sustainable development and considering that multinational companies often operate on their ancestral territories; 55. Calls for companies and shareholders" companies which fall under the category of TNCs to set up ethical investment committees similar to the audit committee and remuneration committees which now exist in such companies; advocates that these committees should report to the board of directors, the shareholders and those directly affected by the activities of the TNC on the implementation of the OECD Guidelines for Multinationals in the developing countries; 56. Calls for such ethical investment committees also to be given the task of identifying enterprise development projects as offset projects which these companies can invest in each country in which they operate in conjunction with NGOs and other civil society actors so that these projects are tied to local social, industrial and service capacity building, which will lead to poverty eradication and foster food security, clean water and sanitation, education, health and gender equality; 57. Regards respect for key social rights and the basic conventions adopted by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) as fundamental and, in that connection, calls for the ILO to be granted increased powers so that it can better enforce the standards it has laid down, powers which may incorporate the right of the ILO to propose penalties; 58. Calls on TNCs to adopt transparency rules requiring corporations to report information about their investment activity and their environmental, social and employment impact in each country where they do business, based on the well-developed concept of "disclosure"; 59. Calls for international accounting standards to be expanded along the lines of the Global Reporting Initiative