WRITTEN QUESTION E-0300/06 by Satu Hassi (Verts/ALE) and Bart Staes (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (1 February 2006) Subject: New Russian NGO law — impact on civil society and EU funding A controversial law entitled ‘On introducing amendments to certain legislative acts of the Russian Federation’ entered into force on 17 January in Russia. The new law will impose a new and stricter regime on the several hundred thousand NGOs functioning in Russia. In the name of protecting Russian national interests and security, the law will allow for investigations into the NGOs' political leanings, sources of funding, and overall adherence to Russian national policy, as well as impressive restrictions on their ability to receive foreign donations or hire foreigners in their offices. The law contains very restrictive and, in many places, vague language, which gives the authorities the possibility of making arbitrary decisions. According to critics, the new law will not only severely curb the work of non-governmental organisations in Russia, but also cripple or liquidate the activities of those organisations that are not popular with the Kremlin. Civil society observers are seriously concerned about what they consider an attack on freedom of association and another attempt to root out independent and critical voices in the Russian Federation. The EU regards civil society to be indispensable for the consolidation of democracy in Russia. The European Union has aimed at supporting that process, in particular by developing direct exchanges between civil society actors in Russia and the Union. In view of the EU's continuous support for an independent civil society in Russia, has the Commission expressed its concerns over the new NGO law to the Russian Government? In view of the estimations that the new registration regime will make it difficult for the NGOs to receive foreign donations, has the Commission evaluated the impact of the new law on the NGOs' ability to receive EU funding aimed at projects in third countries?