most important means for the Parliament to ensure democratic control over this policy. It is even the case, since expenditure for CFSP is classified as "non-compulsory", that the Parliament has a strong role as it adopts the final appropriations for the following year. 9. In terms of the new draft IIA, the EP and Council will nevertheless have reached a global agreement of funding for the period 2007-2013 concerning the level of CFSP appropriations. The institutions will of course be bound by this as long as they are party to the IIA. "...... The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission agree that at least EUR 1.740 million will be available for the CFSP over the period 2007-2013 and that the amount for actions entered under the article mentioned in the third indent may not exceed 20 % of the overall amount of the CFSP budget chapter this corresponds to about 250m/year on average. The PDB for 2007 proposes EUR 159 million. Appropriations in 2006 were 102 million. 10. There is a clear link between the financing structure of actions and the possibility to exercise democratic control. In several cases, today, it is the case that part of an action can be scrutinised by the European Parliament on the basis of financial statements received. Another part of the same action might be scrutinised by national parliaments (provided the necessary structures between Council/governments/national parliaments are in place). Where does this leave any possible assessment by elected representatives as to the full scope of these CFSP/ESDP actions? It is a relevant, and perhaps worrying, question to ask. 11. The rapporteur emphasises that scrutiny of financing by the representatives of the European taxpayers has to be guaranteed, either at national level, if the financing is made purely on a national basis, or at European level, if CFSP actions are funded in part or in full through the EU budget. The new Inter-institutional Agreement 12. The new draft IIA builds and consolidates what had previously been achieved in the last IIA, the joint declaration of 2002, and the exchange of letters between the Budgets Committee chairman and the Council Presidency to set of the "joint information meetings" in the 2004 budget procedure and the "upgrading" of Council representation to Ambassador level in the course of the 2006 budget procedure. 13. These provisions on consultation and political dialogue are of particular importance for Parliament as they might introduce further political participation and democratic control of a sector in which, so far, points on financial elements have often constituted the only source of information. One might even say that, by and large, this policy was often conceived and implemented purely at intergovernmental-level meetings without really being scrutinised by a parliamentary body either at national or at EU level. 14. The main points of the IIA are: a) Agreement to provide at least EUR 1 740 million for the period 2007-2013 (i.e. an average of about 250 million per year) b) Special procedure for CFSP expenditure as part of the annual budgetary procedure is maintained. EP and Council will