WRITTEN QUESTION P-2418/09 by Iosif Matula (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (3 April 2009) Subject: Measures to help unemployed Romanians returning home The mobility of workers in the European Union is guaranteed by Directive 2004/38/EC OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77. of 29 April 2008, under which the possibility of citizens taking up residence with their families and working in any Member State must be applied equally to all citizens, with their rights being safeguarded in all the 27 Member States. The financial crisis has affected most sectors of the economy, and especially those faced with a shortage of workers, such as the construction, automotive, textile and petrochemicals industries. In Romania, the employment rate will again remain at less than 60 % in 2009, but the unemployment rate will increase for two reasons: firstly, the reduction, cessation or relocation of the activities of some Romanian companies and, secondly, the return home of Romanians who have lost their jobs in other Member States. It is suggested that, in Spain alone, as many as 130 000 Romanians will become unemployed. One also has to take into account the approximately 35 000 children who are members of their families. The Iberian economy has been especially hard hit by the international crisis, meaning that any unemployed Romanians who do not find work in Spain will return home. Similar situations apply to Romanians in other European countries, such as Italy and Ireland. Also, it is not just unemployed Romanians who are returning home from other EU Member States. The European Commission has considered ways of protecting people who lose their jobs and has set in motion financial instruments to help them. Both the European Social Fund and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund provide support for employment or offer financial assistance. Given these circumstances, could the Commission indicate: 1. When it is that all Member States will lift the restrictions on Romanian workers, and what measures it has in mind to eliminate those barriers; 2. What measures and financial instruments it has established to help European citizens who lose their jobs in other Member States to return home?