competent committee on 14 September 2006 that smaller agencies should be authorised to buy in internal audit services from the private sector; Evaluation of agencies 27. Recalls the joint statement by the Parliament, the Council and the Commission Council document DS 605/1/07 Rev1. negotiated at the conciliation before the ECOFIN budget Council of 13 July 2007 calling for (i) a list of agencies which the Commission intends to assess, and (ii) a list of the agencies already assessed, together with a summary of the major findings; Disciplinary procedures 28. Notes that, because of their size, individual agencies have difficulty in setting up ad hoc disciplinary boards composed of staff at the appropriate career grade and that the Commission's IDOC (Investigation and Disciplinary Office) is not competent for agencies; calls on the agencies to consider an inter-agency disciplinary board; Draft interinstitutional agreement 29. Recalls the Commission's draft Interinstitutional agreement on the operating framework for the European regulatory agencies ( COM(2005)0059 ), which intended to create a horizontal framework for the creation, structure, operation, evaluation and control of the European regulatory agencies; notes that the draft represents a useful initiative in the effort to rationalise the creation and running of agencies; notes the statement in the Commission's 2006 synthesis report (paragraph 3.1, COM(2007)0274 ) that although progress in negotiations stalled after the proposal's publication, discussions on the substance were relaunched in the Council at the end of 2006; regrets that it has not been possible to make further progress towards adoption; 30. Welcomes therefore the Commission's commitment to bring forward a Communication on the future of the regulatory agencies during the course of 2008; Self-financed agencies 31. Recalls that for the two self-financing agencies, discharge is given to the director by the administrative board; notes that both have significant accumulated surpluses from fee income carried over from previous years figures: Office for Harmonisation of the Internal Market cash and cash equivalents: EUR 281 million; Community Plant Variety Office cash and cash equivalents: EUR 18 million Source: ECA special report. ; Specific points 32. Expresses its satisfaction at the proper implementation of the budget for the financial year 2006; 33. Notes that the Centre has been endeavouring to strengthen and develop its internal supervision system by enhancing the effectiveness of its function and operational activities; 34. Believes that the Centre plays an important role in disseminating information at local, regional, national, and Community level, and in relation to civil society; urges it to become more effective still in fulfilling its purpose; again applauds the work carried out by the Centre, which is performing the tasks entrusted to it unstintingly and to invaluable effect; 35. Notes that for the financial year 2006 the Court of Auditors qualified its statement of assurance with the observation that, although in its previous year's report it had emphasised the absence of a legal basis for a decision of the Centre's Appeal Committee to grant to an agent compensation for non-pecuniary harm not provided for in the Staff Regulations, that compensation was nevertheless paid in 2006; 36. Takes note of the