The Schengen Information System (SIS), set up pursuant to the provisions of Title IV of the 1990 Schengen Convention (SIS 1+), shall be replaced by a new system, the Schengen Information System II (SIS II) or any alte r native technical solution which is based on the best available technology , complies with a precise and reasonable implementation timetable, and is highly cost-effective . The establishment, operation and use of the new system is regulated by Regulation (EC) No 1987/2006. ” Justification If the results of the current SIS II tests were to prove unsatisfactory, a change to an alternative scenario would be a realistic option. The legal text now under consideration has to take this into account. Given the experiences so far with the development of SIS II, it must be made clear that solutions will be acceptable if, and only if, they are cost-effective and follow a precise timetable. Regulation (EC) No 1987/2006 provides for a comprehensive framework, especially as regards data protection. That framework – adopted under the codecision procedure – should invariably apply to every technical solution. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point -1 a (new) Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 Article 1 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( - 1 a ) In Article 1 , the following paragraph is inserted : “ 1a. I f the current SIS II project is discontinued and a n alternative technical solution is implemented , references to SIS II in this R egulation shall be read as references to th at alternative technical solution. ” Justification The current revision of the migration instruments should allow for the fact that SIS II has not yet been tested successfully and that the Council is treating SIS 1+ RE as a contingency plan that will remain in existence until such time as the projected milestone tests have been completed. Should the milestone tests fail, it has to be possible to switch quickly to an alternative solution, without the delays caused by another revision of the legal framework. This proposal must therefore make the legal text flexible enough to be adapted to any technical solution, not just to SIS II. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 3 Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 Article 11 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The Member States participating in SIS 1+ shall migrate from N.SIS to N.SIS II using the interim migration architecture, with the support of France and of the Commission. 2. The Member States participating in SIS 1+ shall migrate from N.SIS to N.SIS II using the interim migration architecture, with the support of France and of the Commission by 31 December 2011. I f an alternative technical solution as referred to in Article 11(5a) is implemented, that date may be changed in accordance with the procedure specifi ed in Article 17(2). Justification Under the current legislation the migration was to have been completed by 30 September 2009 or, subject to the extension available