to as ‘members’. Amendment 21 Article 2, paragraph 3 3. The members can decide to set up the EGCC as a separate legal entity , or to assign its tasks to one of the members. 3. The members set up the EGTC as a separate legal entity and it may assign its tasks to one of the members. Justification As presently worded, this provision suggests that members may choose another framework for the EGTC's activities in addition to the two kinds of organisational structure specified. The wording of Article 2(3) must be clarified, therefore, by deleting the words ' can decide to' . Amendment 22 Article 3, Title Competence Tasks and competencies Justification This article defines both the competencies and the tasks of the EGTC. Amendment 23 Article 3, paragraph 1 1. The EGCC carries out the tasks which it is assigned by its members in accordance with this regulation. Its competencies are defined by a convention of European cross-border co-operation, hereafter referred to as “convention”, which is passed by the members, in conformity with article 4 of this regulation. 1. The EGTC carries out the tasks which it is assigned by its members in accordance with this regulation. Its competencies are defined by a convention of European grouping of territorial co-operation, hereafter referred to as “convention”, which is passed by the members, in conformity with article 4 of this regulation. Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 24 Article 3, paragraph 2 2. Within the limits of its tasks, the EGCC acts on behalf of its members. To this end, the EGCC is invested with the legal capacity accorded to legal entities by national legislations. 2. The EGTC shall act within the confines of the tasks entrusted to it; the execution of those tasks may be delegated to one of its members. Justification The EGTC is invested with legal personality, and accordingly it executes the tasks specifically entrusted to it, taking responsibility and assuming liability for them. (Obviously, it is assumed that the EGTC acts in the interests of its constituent members, although there is no legal obligation to that effect.) The EGTC, as a legal entity, has legal capacity, which is one of the inherent characteristics of legal personality. The EGTC may execute the tasks entrusted to it directly (as a grouping) or delegate the execution of those tasks to one of its members. Amendment 25 Article 3, paragraph 3, subparagraph 1 3. The EGCC can be given the task either of implementing cross-border co-operation programmes co-financed by the community, notably through the structural funds, or of carrying out any other action of cross-border co-operation with or without community financial intervention. 3. The EGTC can be given the task either of implementing territorial co-operation programmes co-financed by the community, notably through the structural funds, or of carrying out any other action of cross-border co-operation with or without community financial intervention. Justification See justification to Amendment 2. Amendment 26 Article 3, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. No financial liability shall fall on Member States that are not members of the EGTC,