they need to be efficient, adapted to the conditions of administration in developing countries and affordable. Amendment 11 Recital 11 a (new) (11a) The EDCTP research and development programme, designed to make a specific contribution to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, could serve as a pilot scheme. A similar initiative should be launched as soon as possible in order to enable effective action against other neglected diseases (such as trypanosomiasis, Buruli ulcer, dengue fever, leishmaniasis, leprosy, lymphatic filariasis and bilhargiasis), which particularly affect poor people in developing countries. Justification The three transmissible diseases with which the ECDTP programme is concerned are not the only diseases neglected in the R&D process. Other fatal diseases are neglected too, and should be covered by a similar programme. Amendment 12 Recital 12 (12) The objective of the EDCTP Programme, the cost of which is estimated by participating States at € 600 million over a five year period, is to accelerate the development of new clinical interventions to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries, particularly in Sub Saharan Africa. The EDCTP Programme has been drawn up with a view to stepping up cooperation and the networking of European national programmes, accelerating clinical trails of new products in the developing countries, helping to strengthen capacities in the developing countries and obtaining additional funds to fight these diseases. (12) The objective of the EDCTP Programme, the cost of which is estimated by participating States at EUR 600 million over a five year period, is to accelerate the development of new clinical interventions to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries, particularly in Sub Saharan Africa. The EDCTP Programme has been drawn up with a view to stepping up cooperation and the networking of European national programmes, accelerating clinical trials of new products , particularly drugs and vaccines, to combat HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria in the developing countries, helping to develop and strengthen capacities in the developing countries , stepping up the transfer of technologies to the developing countries and mobilising additional funds to undertake product-focused research for these diseases. This strengthening of capacities as regards clinical intervention may have the secondary effect of exerting the pull required for the intensification of basic and pre-clinical research aimed at tackling poverty-related public health problems. Due consideration should also be given to the relationship between sexual and reproductive health. Justification The notion of ‘products’ must be clarified. References to new ‘products’ mainly relate to drugs and vaccines. Capacities in the developing countries cannot be strengthened unless technologies are transferred to those countries. Technology transfer is an essential aspect of any programme claiming to offer an effective, long-term solution. In a spirit of real partnership Europe must be willing to share its technologies with the EDCTP partner countries. The EDCTP should focus on accelerating the development of the most promising new products that are appropriate for meeting developing country needs. The EDCTP should be product-focused rather than structure-focused – it needs to produce results. Sexual and reproductive health is an important part of the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and