of the SPE shall be at least EUR 1. 4. The capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 1 , provided that the articles of association of the SPE require that the management body sign a solvency statement as provided for in Article 21. Where the articles of association make no such provision, the capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 10 000 . Amendment 45 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Shareholders must pay the agreed consideration in cash or provide the agreed consideration in kind in accordance with the articles of association of the SPE. 1. Shareholders shall pay the agreed consideration in cash or provide the agreed consideration in kind in accordance with the articles of association of the SPE. The value of the consideration in kind must be proved. Amendment 46 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. If the articles of association so require, the management body of the SPE, in addition to complying with paragraph 1, shall sign a statement, hereinafter a ‘solvency certificate’, before a distribution is made, certifying that the SPE will be able to pay its debts as they become due in the normal course of business within one year of the date of the distribution. Shareholders shall be provided with the solvency certificate before the resolution on the distribution referred to in Article 27 is taken . 2. The management body of the SPE, in addition to complying with paragraph 1, shall sign a statement, hereinafter a ‘solvency certificate’, before a distribution is made, certifying that the SPE will be able to pay its debts as they become due in the normal course of business within one year of the date of the distribution. Shareholders shall be provided with the solvency certificate before the resolution on the distribution referred to in Article 27 is passed . Justification To protect creditors, the management body should invariably be obliged to issue a solvency certificate when a distribution is to be made. Amendment 47 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2a. Solvency certificates shall be disclosed in the database referred to in Article 4c and on the SPE's website. Justification It is important to guarantee disclosure at European level of information concerning the SPEs established in the EU. Amendment 48 Proposal for a regulation Article 25 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The management body shall keep the books of the SPE. The bookkeeping of the SPE shall be governed by the applicable national law. 2. The management body shall be responsible for keeping the books of the SPE. The bookkeeping of the SPE shall be governed by the applicable national law. Justification It is only necessary to ensure that the management body is responsible for bookkeeping. That means that for inspection of the books the addressee is the management body. But outsourcing of