tribunals. Bangladesh government pressed to speed up new elections Overall, MEPs regret that "the Caretaker Government, while making progress on tackling corruption, has been far less assertive on political reform". The resolution thus "calls for a return to democracy and the lifting of the state of emergency in Bangladesh" and in particular "for the lifting of the ban on all political activity, in order to enable all parties and political organisations to prepare for open and fair elections, as provided for under the constitution". The government is asked "to reconsider its present roadmap for elections and to speed up its preparations" and also to "make progress with the creation of a National Human Rights Commission". EU action Parliament welcomes the EU's commitment to grant technical support to the Bangladeshi authorities for the organisation of the elections and calls for the EU election observation mission to resume its long-term activities as soon as possible. The Council and the Commission are asked to monitor carefully the human rights and political situation in Bangladesh in the light of recent events and to make representations over the continuing use of the state of emergency. * * * FINANCING OF SPECIAL COURT FOR SIERRA LEONE In a resolution on the Special Court for Sierra Leone, set up to try those responsible for war crimes in that country, Parliament urges the international community to ensure that funding for the court does not run out, particularly ahead of the crucial trial of former Liberian President Charles Taylor. The court was established by an agreement between the United Nations and the Government of Sierra Leone to prosecute those responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law and Sierra Leonean law in the territory of Sierra Leone since 30 November 1996, notably war crimes and crimes against humanity. The trial against Charles Taylor - indicted on 17 counts of crimes against humanity and war crimes, including murder, mutilation, rape, sexual slavery and the recruitment of child soldiers - is a seen as a test case. However, his trial has been adjourned until 7 January 2008 - and the court is likely to exhaust its funding by October 2007. Precedent-setting role of the special court In its resolution, adopted by 69 votes to 0 with one abstention, Parliament describes the court as "a precedent-setting development in international law, as it is the first tribunal to indict a sitting African head of state for war crimes and crimes against humanity". It points out that "the fight against impunity is one of the cornerstones of the Union’s human rights policy, and the international community bears responsibility for supporting it in order to promote the effectiveness of the accountability mechanisms put in place". The inability to bring the trial of Charles Taylor to a conclusion would, say MEPs, undermine the establishment of a lasting peace in the region and also prejudice the development of international criminal justice. Financial contributions needed urgently from all states The court currently receives financial support from the EU through the EIDHR. In addition, EU Member States, especially the United Kingdom