14.7 If an application for access to a document is refused in whole or in part reasons are given for the refusal. Article 15 Languages 15.1 A complaint may be submitted to the Ombudsman in any of the Treaty languages. The Ombudsman is not required to deal with complaints submitted in other languages. 15.2 The language of proceedings conducted by the Ombudsman is one of the Treaty languages; in the case of a complaint, the language in which it is written. 15.3 The Ombudsman determines which documents are to be drawn up in the language of the proceedings. 15.4 Correspondence with the authorities of Member States is conducted in the official language of the state concerned. 15.5 The annual report, special reports and, where possible, other documents published by the Ombudsman are produced in all official languages. Article 16 Publication of reports 16.1 The European Ombudsman shall publish in the Official Journal announcements concerning the adoption of annual and special reports, making public the means for all interested to have access to the full text of the documents. 16.2 Any reports or summaries of the Ombudsman’s decisions concerning confidential complaints are published in a form that does not allow the complainant to be identified. Article 17 Entry into force 17.1 The implementing provisions adopted on 16 October 1997 are repealed. 17.2 This decision shall come into effect on 1 January 2003. 17.3 The President of the European Parliament shall be informed of the adoption of this decision. An announcement shall also be published in the Official Journal. ANNEX XI Prevention of fraud, corruption and any illegal activity detrimental to the Communities' interests European Parliament Decision concerning the terms and conditions for internal investigations in relation to the prevention of fraud, corruption and any illegal activity detrimental to the Communities' interests Adopted on 18 November 1999. The European Parliament, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 199 thereof, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, and in particular Article 25 thereof, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 112 thereof, Having regard to its Rules of Procedure, and in particular Rule 186(c) Now Rule 204(c). thereof, Whereas: Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. and Council Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999 OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 8. concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office provide that the Office is to initiate and conduct administrative investigations within the institutions, bodies and offices and agencies established by or on the basis of the EC Treaty or the Euratom Treaty; The responsibility of the European Anti-Fraud Office as established by the Commission extends beyond the protection of financial interests to include all activities relating to the need to safeguard Community interests against irregular conduct liable to give rise to administrative or criminal proceedings; The scope of the fight against fraud should be broadened and its effectiveness enhanced by exploiting existing expertise in the area of administrative