taxed until they are paid out). The following are different types of annuity products, with an indication of the types of policies sold by the Society and the outstanding amounts For more detail see WE 28. : § Single-Premium Annuities : the investment is made all at once § Flexible-Premium Annuities : the annuity is funded with a series of payments § Immediate Annuities : it starts payments right after the annuity is funded, usually with a single premium § Deferred Annuities : with this type of annuity, payouts begin many years after the annuity contract is issued. Scheduled payments can be received either in a lump sum or as an annuity. They may be funded with a single or flexible premium § Fixed Annuities or GAR Annuities : with a fixed annuity contract, the insurance company puts funds into conservative fixed income investments such as bonds, and the principal is guaranteed. The company gives the policyholder an interest rate that is guaranteed for a certain minimum period. This guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) is adjusted upwards or downwards at the end of the guarantee period. ELS still has fixed annuity business of around £5billion § Variable Annuities : the variable annuity carries higher risks than the GAR fixed annuity. It gives the purchaser the ability to choose how to allocate his money among several different managed funds. Unlike the fixed annuity, there are no guarantees of principal or interest. Thus, the investment is taken by the annuitant who bears the risk, not the insurance company. ELS sold a type of variable annuity called a with-profit annuity , a policy that received a share of the distributed surplus from the relevant fund by way of bonuses. ELS wrote the bulk of its with-profit annuity contracts in the 1990s when investment returns were high. The Society’s financial problems and the stock market fall of 2000-2003 resulted in a material cut of about one-third of the with-profit annuities. This was also compounded by the matter of the so-called Guaranteed Interest Rate (‘GIR’), an amount by which basic benefits are guaranteed to increase each year before the addition of a declared bonus. It is estimated that GIR probably still applies to about 75% of with-profit policies of ELS. Those policies with GIR benefit from a 3.5% guaranteed annual increase. The overall effect of the GIR is that ELS is locked into investment in government stocks and loans, which can barely produce a 3.5% annual return. This has meant that the Society has not benefited much from the stock market recovery of 2003-2005. The ELS with-profits fund is currently estimated to be worth £10 billion. The functioning of a with-profits fund in detail Funds are invested - whether in equities, bonds, gilts and property - depending on the fund and its investment objectives. The intention of with-profits is to give relatively cautious investors a taste of the stock market but without too much risk. In return for monthly premiums, the company promises to pay a lump sum at the end of the policy's term. Investors' premiums are