All public contracts financed in whole or in part by the budget shall comply with the principles of transparency, proportionality, equal treatment and non-discrimination. 2. All procurement contracts shall be put out to tender on the broadest possible base, except when use is made of the negotiated procedure referred to in Article 91(1)(d). Section 2 Publication Article 90 1. All contracts exceeding the thresholds provided for in Article 105 or Article 167 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities . Contract notices shall be published in advance except in the cases referred to in Article 91(2) and for the service contracts referred to in the implementing rules. Publication of certain information after the contract has been awarded may be dropped where it would hinder application of the law, would be contrary to the public interest or would harm the legitimate business interests of public or private undertakings or could distort fair competition between them. 2. Contracts with a value below the thresholds provided for in Article 105 or Article 167 shall be advertised as appropriate. Section 3 Procurement procedures Article 91 1. Procurement procedures shall take one of the following forms: a) the open procedure; b) the restricted procedure; c) contests; d) the negotiated procedure. 2. For contracts where the value exceeds the thresholds provided for in Article 105 or Article 167, use of the negotiated procedure shall be authorised only in the cases provided for in the implementing rules. The first subparagraph shall not apply to the service contracts referred to in the implementing rules. 3. The thresholds below which the contracting authority may either use a negotiated procedure or, by way of derogation from the first subparagraph of Article 88(1), simply pay costs against invoices shall be determined in the implementing rules. Article 92 A full, clear and precise description of the subject of the contract must be given in the documents relating to the call for tenders Article 93 1. Candidates or tenderers shall be excluded from participation in a procurement procedure if: a) they are bankrupt or being wound up, are having their affairs administered by the courts, have entered into an arrangement with creditors, have suspended business activities, are the subject of proceedings concerning those matters, or are in any analogous situation arising from a similar procedure provided for in national legislation or regulations; b) they have been convicted of an offence concerning their professional conduct by a judgment which has the force of res judicata ; c) they have been guilty of grave professional misconduct proven by any means which the contracting authority can justify; d) they have not fulfilled obligations relating to the payment of social security contributions or the payment of taxes in accordance with the legal provisions of the country in which they are established or with those of the country of the contracting authority or those of the country where the contract is to be performed; e) they have been the subject of a judgment which has the force of res judicata for fraud, corruption, involvement in a