necessary in order to re-establish the principles of good governance, so that the election commission and the caretaker government can operate independently. They say a coordinated approach by all donors worldwide will be necessary to support such reforms. Parliament calls on all sides to refrain from undemocratic practices and to enter into an all-party dialogue through full participation in the democratic process in parliament; calls, in particular, on the opposition parties to end the boycott of parliamentary activity, since agitation and violence cause suffering to the people of Bangladesh. The House expresses its support for the principled steps which EU representatives have taken during the last year in defence of the rights of religious minorities in Bangladesh, such as their physical presence at a complex of the Ahmadiyya Muslims, in October 2004, when fundamentalists had prepared to stage a mass assault on the complex. It calls on the Council to review the application of the human rights and democracy clause of the EU-Bangladesh Cooperation Agreement and to ascertain whether the Government of Bangladesh is making sufficiently strong efforts to fundamentally improve the human rights situation. Finally, Parliament notes recent modest steps taken by the Government of Bangladesh to improve the political situation in the country, will encourage the Government of Bangladesh to establish a situation respectful of law and order and will support any substantial progress on issues like good governance, freedom of press, the fight against corruption and respect for human rights. Press enquiries: Ralph Pine (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74751 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42941 e-mail : rpine@europarl.eu.int Humanitarian assistance to refugees from Western Sahara Motion for resolutions on humanitarian assistance to refugees from Western Sahara Doc.: B6-0250/2005 , B6-0253/2005 , B6-0257/2005 , B6-0261/2005 , B6-0264/2005 Vote : 14.04.2005 In a resolution on humanitarian aid to refugees from Western Sahara adopted by a clear majority, Parliament calls on the Commission to grant immediate emergency aid to enable the difficult situation of the Sahrawi population currently living as refugees to be addressed. It says the EU should step up and diversify its aid so that it is brought up at least to the 2002 level, thus guaranteeing a decent minimum diet to the Sahrawi refugees, while continuing to give importance to the areas of health, education, accommodation and transport. MEPs reiterate their call to the Commission to take appropriate steps to ensure that the aid provided to Sahrawi refugee camps is guaranteed and is under no circumstances interrupted, even momentarily, for merely administrative reasons. They say the Commission should involve European NGOs which already have experience on the ground in implementing the ECHO programmes for the Sahrawi refugees, in order to guarantee that the aid granted by the European Union is efficiently and rapidly implemented. Finally, the ask the Commission to contribute to strengthening the capacity for administering humanitarian aid in the refugee camps by cooperating with the Sahrawi institutions set up specifically for this purpose. Press enquiries: Ralph Pine (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74751 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42941 e-mail : rpine@europarl.eu.int Asylum seekers on the island of Lampedusa Motion for resolutions on Lampedusa