Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (24 November 2010) The Commission reiterates its commitment to the defence and the promotion of the rights of indigenous peoples and recognises the importance of organisations defending those rights in Peru and in the world. In the last years the European Commission has financed several projects promoting the rights of indigenous peoples and aiming to ameliorate the quality of life of indigenous communities in Peru, for an amount of over EUR 14 million. Four of these projects directly benefited various Aidesep (Interethnic Association for the Development of the Peruvian Rain Forest) federations. Moreover, the EU Delegation in Peru is about to contract 25 new actions implemented by civil society organisations that will promote civic participation, human rights and environmental management, benefitting indigenous people, amongst other vulnerable groups. In the first pre-selection phase of the 2008 call for proposals for the ‘Thematic Programme for Environment and Sustainable Management of Natural Resources including Energy’, the Commission indeed considered the possibility of financing Aidesep’s proposal. In August 2008, the Commission communicated to Aidesep that the action had been pre-selected by the Evaluation Committee, but specified that the grant could not be obtained until both parties signed a contract. Since then, the Commission has been consistently assessing the evolution of the situation of Aidesep in Peru. However, at the time of the decision, it was concluded that conditions were not favourable for guaranteing efficient management and implementation of the project. Therefore in April 2010 the Commission informed Aidesep of its decision not to proceed with this project. At the current stage of the Annual Action Programme, it is not possible to foresee a commitment to finance Aidesep's proposal. The Commission is nonetheless open to dialogue, and in the future, if conditions are more favourable, would be ready to consider new proposals put forward by Aidesep.