ensure full parliamentary scrutiny and oversight of the process. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) The preconditions for migration will not be met by 30 June 2010. In order for SIS II to become operational as required by Regulation (EC) 1987/2006 and Decision 2007/533/JHA, Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 and Decision 2008/839/JHA should therefore continue to apply until migration has been completed. (3) The preconditions for migration will not be met by 30 June 2010. In order for SIS II to become operational as required by Regulation (EC) 1987/2006 and Decision 2007/533/JHA, Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 and Decision 2008/839/JHA should therefore continue to apply until migration has been completed. In the event of a failure of the current SIS II project, after testing, an alternative technical solution should be devised and its full financial implications should be disclosed to all parties concerned. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6) A technical contingency plan for attaining SIS II functionalities should be foreseen . The description of the technical components of the migration architecture therefore should be adapted to allow for another technical solution regarding the development of Central SIS II. (6) This Regulation should allow for migration to possible alternative technical solutions in the event that the current SIS II project cannot be successfully implemented . The description of the technical components of the migration architecture should be adapted to allow for an alternative technical solution regarding the development of Central SIS II. Any such alternative technical solution should be cost-effective and implemented in accordance with a precise and reasonable timetable. The Commission should present a thorough budgetary assessment of the costs associated with such an alternative technical solution in a timely fashion. Justification The current revision of the migration instruments should allow for the fact that SIS II has not yet been tested successfully and that the Council is treating SIS 1+ RE as a contingency plan. Should the milestone tests fail, it has to be possible to switch quickly to an alternative solution proven cost-effective, without the delays caused by another revision of the legal framework. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 4 Regulation (EC) No 114/2008 Article 17a - paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The GPMB shall be composed of a maximum of 10 experts. A maximum of eight experts and an equal number of alternates shall be designated by the Member States acting within the Council. Two experts and two alternates shall be designated by the Director General of the responsible Directorate-General of the Commission from among Commission officials. Other Commission officials with an interest in the proceedings may attend meetings of the GPMB. 2. The GPMB shall be composed of a maximum of 10 experts. A maximum of eight experts and an equal number of alternates shall be designated by the Member States acting within the Council. Two experts and two alternates shall be designated