WRITTEN QUESTION E-2376/04 by Frank Vanhecke (NI) to the Commission (7 October 2004) Subject: Financial support for political parties opposed to the European Constitution On 29 October 2004 the European Constitution is to be solemnly signed in Rome, after which the document is required to be ratified in each of the Member States. Only if the Constitution is ratified by all of the Member States may it enter into force. In certain Member States ratification is dependent on a referendum in which the people will have the chance to give their verdict on the European Constitution. It is regrettable that referenda are not being held in each of the Member States of the European Union. Only by holding a referendum in each Member State allowing all Europeans to give their verdict on the document will democratic legitimacy be conferred on the Constitution. The preamble to the Constitution states that the members of the European Convention prepared the Constitution ‘on behalf of the citizens and States of Europe’. In reality, the Convention was in no way representative. It was a forum that was led and dominated by champions of a federal Europe. Only three or four out of the total 105 members of the Convention were seriously eurosceptic. Referenda are therefore crucial in order to rectify the democratic gap. For the reasons outlined above, opponents of a federal Europe must be given a full chance - at least - in the referendum campaigns. In the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs a number of MEPs had argued in favour of equal financial support for advocates and opponents of the European Constitution. That was turned down by the Netherlands Presidency of the EU (Lisbeth Kirk, ‘MEPS call for synchronisation of referenda timetable’, www.euobserver.com 2 September 2004). What is the Commission's position? Does the Commission not consider that both advocates and opponents of a European Constitution should be given an equal chance in referendum campaigns? Does the Commission not consider that a genuinely democratic Europe is one in which opponents of a European Constitution receive equal financial support from the national authorities?