simplify procedures and introduce benchmarks, without prejudging rigorousness. II. The preparatory process: engaging the business community This report is action-oriented . The aim is to give concrete answers to concrete problems affecting retail operators. The Rapporteur focuses on what can be done at a European level to inject more efficiency and fairness into the retail supply chain, for consumers to benefit from a more integrated retail market. The Rapporteur worked with the Shadow Rapporteurs and the Commission along the following lines: - Setting out priorities from the Commission’s Retail Market Monitoring Report, by focusing on the most problematic and pressing issues relevant to Europe’s recovery; - Engaging in a broad, in-depth, five-month cross-sector and cross-country consultation, with big and small suppliers and retailers, independent retailers, consumer associations, European brands and business federations, to identify their daily problems List of consulted parties available on request. ; - Assessing work in progress, in order to avoid overlap and support the most relevant initiatives underway. Consultations and public debates have been a way of addressing some of the tensions and breaking mistrust. In this respect, the report is intended to be a living document and a starting point for more intense dialogue among all concerned. The preparatory work, conducted in parallel with the public consultation on the Single Market Act, has shown how relevant the completion of the single market is for retail to achieve its full potential. This Report is unique, since an in-depth analysis of the retail sector had not been carried out by the Commission in recent years. III. Removing obstacles to the free movement of goods and services Based on evidence from stakeholders, the Rapporteur has identified cases of obstacles to the free movement of goods and services. For instance, Dutch cheese must be repacked to be sold in France due to different rules on weight and size; toys considered safe in the UK require extra tests to be sold in Germany; chairs need a certificate against use for torture when sold in Italy; fire regulations in Hungary prevent the import of carpets for hotels; rules on chocolate are different in Spain. Fragmentation and restrictive national measures cause unnecessary red tape and costs, especially for SMEs. Existing tools, such as SOLVIT and the Internal Market Information System (IMI), should be better used to remove practical obstacles. A fragmented payment system hinders free trade in the EU and large sums are lost daily in transaction fees. Harmonising intra-EU payments should be a priority. The innovative potential of internet and mobile payments must also be considered when revising the Single European Payment Area (SEPA). IV. Opening up market access for business and consumers Urban planning is a national competence and subsidiarity must prevail. However, planning rules should not, directly or indirectly, obstruct the freedom of establishment . Accessibility for consumers The debate between shopping centres and shops is polarised. There is concern that the number of local shops offering traditional products is steadily decreasing across Europe. Not having or not wishing to use a car for environmental reasons, old age, living in a