Products labelled in accordance with Article 16 of the Directive may continue to be placed on the market for four years from the date of application of this Regulation. ▐ Article 85 Repeal Directives 79/117/EEC and 91/414/EEC, as amended by the acts listed in Annex V, are repealed with effect from the date of application of this Regulation, without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States relating to the time-limits for transposition into national law and application of the Directives set out in that Annex. References to the repealed Directives shall be construed as references to this Regulation. Article 86 Entry into force and application This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission shall, not later than ... * 18 months after the entry into force of this Regulation. , adopt the following Regulations: – a Regulation containing the list of the active substances already approved at the moment of publication of that Regulation, – a Regulation on data requirements for active substances, as referred to in Article 9 (1)(b), – a Regulation on data requirements for plant protection products, as referred to in Article 9 (1)(c), ▐ – a Regulation containing the requirements of the labelling of plant protection products as referred to in Article 68 (1). The Commission shall, not later than ... * 6 months after the entry into force of this Regulation. , adopt the following Regulation: - a Regulation on uniform principles for risk assessment for plant protection products, as referred to in Article 37. This Regulation shall apply from ... ** 18 months after the entry into force of this Regulation. *. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at ..., For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ▐ ANNEX I Procedure and criteria for the approval of active substances, safeners and synergists pursuant to Chapter II 1. Evaluation 1.1. During the process of evaluation and decision-making provided for in Articles 4 to 22 , the rapporteur Member State and the Authority shall cooperate with applicants to resolve any questions on the dossier quickly or to identify at an early stage any additional studies necessary for the evaluation of the dossier, including information to eliminate the need for a restriction of the approval, or to amend any proposed conditions for the use of the plant protection product or to modify its nature or its composition in order to ensure full satisfaction of the requirements of this Regulation. 1.2. The evaluation by the Authority and the rapporteur Member State must be based on scientific principles and be made with the benefit of expert advice. 1.3. During the process of evaluation and decision-making provided for in Articles 4 to 22 , Member States and the Authority shall take into consideration any further guidance developed in the framework of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health for the purposes of refining, where relevant, the risk