change and global warming, M. whereas the Common Agricultural Policy, by eliminating thousands of small farms and farmers in recent years, has significantly contributed to the complete dismantling of the traditional complementary relationship between forest and farming areas in land formerly inhabited by small farmers, and to the desertification of the countryside, thus promoting conditions favourable to the outbreak of large-scale forest fires, N. whereas actions to prevent forest fires and support regions deemed high risk areas were to a large extent cut out of the current Forest Focus Programme for the protection of the EU’s forests, O. whereas the requisite joint effort has not been made with regard to the existing woodland heritage of the Member States, particularly in Community budget terms, to prevent and research forest fires and develop the appropriate means of fighting them, P. having regard to the restrictions inherent in the rigid criteria of the Stability Pact and, furthermore, to the pressure to cut public investment, 1. Expresses its deepest condolences and voices its solidarity with the families of the victims and all those affected by this disaster; 2. Pays tribute to the work of the firemen and the local populations in their courageous and selfless attempts, with the inadequate means currently available to them, to fight the fires and protect human life and property; pays tribute likewise to the assistance and cooperation of third countries in fighting the fires; 3. Calls on the Commission to continue to work with the national authorities providing support for the affected populations, minimising the environmental impact of the fires and carrying out reforestation, by supporting all national public aid initiatives, with a view to restoring the productive potential of the regions affected, and the aim of relaunching job creation and taking all necessary measures to make good the social costs involved in losses of jobs and sources of income, and likewise to facilitate all Community administrative procedures related to the necessary reprogramming of the structural funds; 4. Calls on the Commission to step-up its support for Portugal by means of the various existing community programmes and streamlining the rigid processing of the uptake of funds so as to make it more flexible; 5. Believes that the amount which should be made available by the EU Solidarity Fund should be at least equivalent to what the Portuguese Government requested, i.e. some € 52 million (6% of the total value of the direct damage); 6. Believes that the current Forest Focus programme should be reviewed and financially strengthened so that it can make an effective contribution to protecting the EU’s woodlands, promoting action to prevent forest fires and supporting regions deemed to be high risk areas; 7. Urges the Commission to put forward an integrated Community strategy for fighting forest fires, with additional measures to support the Member States in the fields of prevention, reforestation, research and civil protection coordination, with a view to strengthening indispensable national and local firefighting resources, developing synergies between existing rural development and structural funds programmes and the Framework Programme on Research; 8. Calls on the Commission