Athens, pp. 113-120. "Challenges for monetary policy on the road to EMU", Economic Bulletin , Bank of Greece, vol. 8, November 1996, pp. 63-75. "The globalisation of financial markets and the conduct of economic and monetary policy", Economic Bulletin , Bank of Greece, vol. 10, December 1997, pp. 79-89. "Greece and the euro" in Banking on the Euro , 9 th Frankfurt European Banking Congress, November 1999. "Monetary policy-making under uncertainty: central bank strategy and credibility" in Monetary policy-making under uncertainty , European Central Bank, Frankfurt am Main, December 1999. "The Greek economy in the euro area", The Annual Lecture of the Hellenic Observatory, The European Institute, London School of Economics and Political Science, May 2000. "From the drachma to the euro", Economic Bulletin , Bank of Greece, vol. 15, July 2000, pp. 7-14. "Why price stability?" in A.G. Herrero et al (eds.), Why price stability? , Proceedings of the First ECB Central Banking Conference, European Central Bank, Frankfurt am Main, November 2000. "The euro, the Greek economy and the banking system", Bulletin of the Hellenic Banking Association , vol. 24, 2001, pp. 5-13. "The Greek Economy: Performance and Policy Challenges" in R.C. Bryant et al (eds.), Greece’s Economic Performance and Prospects , Bank of Greece and the Brookings Institution, 2001. Annex 2: Questions and answers Answers provided by Lucas Papademos to the questionnaire drawn up by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament A. Personal and professional background 1. Please highlight the three most important aspects of your professional experience in monetary, financial and business matters. My professional experience in monetary and financial matters relates to my career as a central banker and a professor of economics. The three most important aspects of my experience in these matters can be grouped as follows: ∙ Teaching and research. From 1975 to 1985, I taught economics at Columbia University in New York, mainly courses on macroeconomics, monetary theory and policy, and banking. At the University of Athens, where I have been a professor since 1988, I have taught courses on money and banking, economic and monetary policy as well as a course on European economic integration. My research and publications have focused on issues directly related to monetary policy, the structure of financial markets and the dynamics of inflation and employment. ∙ From 1985 to 1993, I held the position of Economic Counsellor (Chief Economist) at the Bank of Greece, where I was involved in all aspects of economic analysis and monetary policy formulation. I was also Head of the Economic Research Department (1988-1993) and represented the Bank of Greece in various European and international committees on monetary and financial matters (please see my answer to the next question). ∙ Since October 1994, I have been Governor of the Bank of Greece, after having served as Deputy Governor since December 1993. In my capacity as Governor, I have been President of the Monetary Policy Council of the Bank and Chairman of the Committee on Banking and Credit. I have been directly involved in all monetary policy decisions aimed at