Joint answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-2851/10 , P-3181/10 (2 June 2010) Minicars or ‘voiturettes’ are four-wheel vehicles with a maximum design speed of 45 km/h as described in Article 1(3)(a) of Directive 2002/24/EC OJ L 124, 9.5.2002. relating to the type-approval of two or three-wheel motor vehicles. The Commission is currently working on a proposal for a new Framework Regulation on the Type Approval of L-category vehicles. The main objectives of this initiative are to simplify the current legal framework, to contribute to a lower, more proportionate share of overall road transport emissions and to increase vehicle safety for new vehicles entering the market. In addition, the proposal would need to look into new or revised measures to deal with the rapid technical progress, which took place in the L-category vehicle product development during the last decade. For this purpose, an Impact Assessment is being conducted in order to identify and analyse concerns and to develop preferred policy options in order to meet the overall objectives. This Impact Assessment also analyses, among others, the safety concerns related to minicars (vehicle category L7e) in order to identify policy options to address the safety and environmental concerns from this sub category of L‑category vehicles. A policy option study http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/sectors/automotive/files/projects/report_new_measures_l_category_en.pdf, (Chapters 4 and 6). which is available on the Automotive Industry Unit website provides more information on the subject. The final draft proposal is planned to be adopted by the Commission in July 2010 and will subsequently be published on the Commission's website, together with the complete impact assessment. These new and revised safety measures should significantly improve vehicle safety from a technical perspective, which in turn should help to reduce the number of road accident fatalities and injured people driving such vehicles. Concerning the conditions for driving such vehicles, Directive 91/439/EEC on driving licences OJ L 237, 24.8.1991. does not encompass this vehicle category. Therefore, requirements for driving such vehicles may vary according to national legislation. Although a theory test has been introduced by several Member States, practical skills and behaviour are in most cases not tested. Directive 2006/126/EC on driving licences OJ L 403, 30.12.2006. (a recast of the previous one) has significantly strengthened the conditions for driving such vehicles. As from 19 January 2013, minicars will be considered as four-wheeled mopeds and will require an AM driving licence after completion of a mandatory theory test. Practical testing remains a national competence. The Commission does not consider that a specific new driving licence category would be necessary for such vehicles which, under normal operating conditions, are not comparable to cars for which a B licence is required. However, in the light of the concern expressed by the Honourable Members, the Commission will keep the matter under review and may consider the need and feasibility to incorporate an obligatory practical test in order to obtain an AM driving licence. Finally, the Commission considers that Member States should give priority to enforcement and controls in view of preventing illegal power-train modifications of such vehicles. Directive 2000/30/EC