Answer given by Mr Monti on behalf of the Commission (6 May 2003) The Commission understands that the question of the Honourable Member refers to the consistency of state aid policy when there are relocations of production facilities within the Union. The Commission is aware that Community policies, including state aid, may lead, inter alia, to potential relocation problems and it is the Commission's concern to ensure that these problems are reduced as much as possible, while respecting the fundamental principles of the common market. To illustrate this concern, when the Commission adopted for example its Guidelines on national regional aid in 1998 Guidelines on national regional aid; http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/pri/en/oj/dat/1998/c_074/c_07419980310en00090031.pdf. These Guidelines are applicable from their date of publication in the Official Journal of the European Union onwards, OJ C 74, 10.3.1998 . 4.10. Aid for initial investment must be made conditional, through its method of payment or through the conditions associated with its acquisition, on the maintenance of the investment in question for a minimum period of five years. , it reduced the level of aid authorised across the board in order to minimise the risks of regions attempting to outbid one another and to limit aid to what is strictly necessary. At the same time, the granting of regional aid was tied more strictly to conditions of duration in terms of the continuation of investment and job creation in the region concerned. In general, as far as relocations are concerned, the Commission would like to underline that these are first and foremost the result of choices made by the enterprise in order to improve its competitiveness, either by reducing its overheads (wage costs, transport, raw materials, tax) or by rationalising its production tools. A number of factors, not only or principally the possibility of obtaining financial support from the public purse, may thus influence decisions concerning the location of a new investment. Therefore, there is not always a direct link between the granting of a state aid in a certain region and the closing down of an establishment in another. The enterprises which have decided to relocate should take also into account the financial cost for compensating the social costs of their decision. These social costs have been imposed by social regulations in Member States and on Community level. In particular Council Directive 98/59/CE Council Directive 98/59/CE of 20 July 1998 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to collective redundancies, OJ L 225, 12.8.1998 . relative to collective redundancies which includes provisions on the information and the consultation with the representatives of the workers in the cases where the employer is contemplating such redundancies. Generally, the Commissison recommends to enterprises, when they are planning their relocation, to consider the consequences of their decision to employees. This has been stressed in the Communication of the Commission concerning the Corporate Social Responsibility. A bussiness contribution in sustainable development COM(2002) 347 final. . Moreover, the Commission has invited the European social partners to participate in a dialogue, on anticipating change with a view of adopting a dynamic approach towards