Question for written answer E-010979/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Ioannis A. Tsoukalas (PPE) (6 January 2011) Subject: Use of plastic money by European consumers The use of debit and credit cards instead of cash by consumers for their daily transactions is steadily increasing. Furthermore, many small businesses prefer cards, since they make transactions substantially more secure and simplify procedures. Recent studies in the UK have shown a sharp increase in card use by consumers, with millions more transactions being made in this way every day. On the other hand, in Europe the practice of making payments by mobile phone (mobile payments) is not yet very common, although it is already widespread in the developing markets of Africa, India, Latin America and Asia. It is estimated that by 2014 over 500 million consumers will be using money transfer and payment services via their mobile phones. The use of plastic money is closely linked to the development of e-commerce that is becoming a key market for Europe's economy in the 21st century. It is estimated that access to alternative electronic payment options at European level and at low cost per transaction may enhance cross-border e-commerce and help to create a single European electronic market of 500 million consumers. In view of the above, will the Commission say: — What data does it have, for each Member State, on the use of debit/credit cards, instead of real money, by European consumers? What data does it have on illegal transactions made with credit and debit cards? — Plastic money can be used to combat movements of ‘black money’ and tax evasion. What data does it have regarding such phenomena and what action does it intend to take to combat them? What framework governs the security of credit and debit card use? — What will it do to make it easier to use debit cards within the EU, particularly for cross-border e-commerce transactions? What progress has been made in the EU in the field of electronic payments via mobile phones? Are there any technology and research pilot projects in this area?