the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C ... / Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 RECITAL 4 A (new) (4a) Consideration should be given to including countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia in the lending mandate after the year 2006; Amendment 2 ARTICLE 1, POINT (1), POINT b)A (new) Article 1, paragraph 3a (new) (decision 2000/24/CE) (ba) Paragraph (3a) is added: "3a. The EIB is invited to prepare feasibility studies on the inclusion in the mandate, as from 2007, of countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia regions." 25 February 2004 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRY, EXTERNAL TRADE, RESEARCH AND ENERGY for the Committee on Budgets on the proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 2000/24/EC to take into account the enlargement of the European Union and the EU’s Wider Europe – New Neighbourhood policy ( COM(2003) 603 – C5‑0501/2003 – 2003/0232(CNS)) Draftsman: Reino Paasilinna PROCEDURE The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy appointed Reino Paasilinna draftsman at its meeting of 27 November 2003. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 19 January 2004 and 18 February 2004. At the last meeting it adopted the following amendments by 22 votes to 18, with 1 abstention. The following were present for the vote: Luis Berenguer Fuster (chairman), Peter Michael Mombaur (vice-chairman), Reino Paasilinna (draftsman), Gordon J. Adam (for Gary Titley), María del Pilar Ayuso González (for Jaime Valdivielso de Cué), Ward Beysen (for Daniela Raschhofer), Guido Bodrato, David Robert Bowe (for Norbert Glante), Giles Bryan Chichester, Nicholas Clegg, Dorette Corbey (for Harlem Désir), Concepció Ferrer, Francesco Fiori (for Umberto Scapagnini), Jacqueline Foster (for Sir Robert Atkins), Cristina García-Orcoyen Tormo (for Angelika Niebler), Neena Gill (for Myrsini Zorba), Alfred Gomolka (for Dominique Vlasto), Michel Hansenne, Bashir Khanbhai, Hedwig Keppelhoff-Wiechert (for Werner Langen pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Dimitrios Koulourianos, Helmut Kuhne (for Massimo Carraro), Rolf Linkohr, Caroline Lucas, Erika Mann, Marjo Matikainen-Kallström, Eryl Margaret McNally, Ana Miranda de Lage, Giuseppe Nisticò (for W.G. van Velzen), Paolo Pastorelli, Samuli Pohjamo (for Willy C.E.H. De Clercq), Godelieve Quisthoudt-Rowohl, Bernhard Rapkay (for Hans Karlsson), Imelda Mary Read, Christian Foldberg Rovsing, Paul Rübig, Olle Schmidt (for Marianne Eriksson pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Konrad K. Schwaiger, Esko Olavi Seppänen, Alejo Vidal-Quadras Roca and Olga Zrihen Zaari. SHORT JUSTIFICATION Your rapporteur seeks to concentrate on one aspect of the legislative proposal under consideration. This one aspect is about the proper definition of the "Wider Europe" after the 5th Enlargement of the EU, and this single issue with respect to one instrument of the EC, is its guarantee for loans granted by the EIB to non member countries or third countries. The subject-matter merits particular attention for at least four reasons.The first has to do with the concept of Wider Europe . On 1 May 2004, the EU will have 10 new members, totalling 25, a population of 451.5 million and new geographic frontiers. Hence new neighbours, new interests and new problems to solve. However, the question "what is Europe" is not a "question