specific support actions consisting of a purchase or service governed by the terms applicable to public procurement procedures; c) specific support actions with particular characteristics and value to the objectives and the scientific and technological content of specific programmes, for which grant applications may be submitted to the Commission if so provided for in the work programme of the relevant specific programme and where such a request does not fall within the scope of an open call for proposals; d) specific support actions covered by Annex III, point 1.7, first paragraph, of Decision No .../2002/EC [on the sixth framework programme]. 3. The Commission may issue calls for expressions of interest in order to assist it in identifying precise objectives and requirements that may be included in the work programmes and in the calls for proposals . This shall be without prejudice to any subsequent decision adopted by the Commission regarding the evaluation and selection of proposals for indirect actions. 4. Calls for expressions of interest and calls for proposals shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities and shall also be given the widest possible publicity, in particular using the Internet pages of the sixth framework programme and through specific information channels such as the national contact points set up by the Member States and the Associated States. Article 10 Evaluation and selection of proposals for indirect actions 1. The proposals for indirect actions covered in Article 9 (1) and Article 9 (2)(c) shall be evaluated according to the following criteria , where applicable : a) scientific and technological excellence and degree of innovation; b) ability to carry out the indirect action successfully and to ensure its efficient management, assessed in terms of resources and competencies and including the organisational arrangements laid down by the participants; c) relevance to the objectives of the specific programme; (d) European added value, critical mass of resources mobilised and contribution to Community policies; e) quality of the plan for using and disseminating the knowledge, potential for promoting innovation, and clear plans for the management of intellectual property. 2. In applying paragraph 1 (d) , the following criteria shall also be taken into account: a) for networks of excellence, the scope and degree of the effort to achieve integration and the network's capacity to promote excellence beyond its membership, as well as the prospects of the durable integration of their research capabilities and resources after the end of the period covered by the Community's financial contribution; b) for integrated projects, the scale of ambition of the objectives and the capacity of the resources to make a significant contribution to reinforcing competitiveness or solving societal problems; c) for integrated initiatives relating to infrastructure, the prospects of the initiative's continuing long term after the end of the period covered by the Community's financial contribution. 3. In applying paragraphs 1 and 2, the following additional criteria may be taken into account: a) synergies with education at all levels; b) readiness and capacity to engage with actors beyond the research community and the public as a whole, to