link to the GAR issue is explained at length in Part I (Introduction) and Part III (Regulatory issues). The Directive only requires that future liabilities include, apart from all guaranteed benefits, bonuses to which policyholders are already either collectively or individually entitled, however those bonuses are described - vested, declared or allotted. Neither UK regulations nor the Directive require the establishment of additional technical reserves especially for future reversionary bonuses and terminal bonuses which are given at the discretion of the insurance company rather than as the result of a contractual obligation. The 3LD leaves open as an option (section 1.D) for the Member State regulator the requirement to reserve for these discretionary future bonuses (reserving of “future bonuses of all kinds”) . Nicholas BELLORD claims that this was deliberate, as he states (H2) that " w hen it came to the third life directive being drafted, it was found that stricter reserving requirements were being proposed and the UK delegation was supporting these stricter requirements. However, the Treasury, the regulators, realised that, if this directive went ahead as drafted, it might reveal the truth about Equitable and therefore they scotched the idea by making the reserving optional (…). So the option existed to have proper reserving but the UK regulators deliberately did not take advantage of that option." In addition, another interpretation (WE Conf 11) argues that when the Directive requires sufficient technical provisions in respect of its entire business, that is exactly what it means without any ambiguity, i.e., the technical provisions need to be calculated not only in respect of its contractual benefits but also of its future reversionary bonuses and terminal bonuses. Lord Penrose (WE 16) reinforces this point when he says that the regulator was focused exclusively on solvency margins and took no account of accrued terminal bonus, with the implication that supervision should include verification of a company's entire business and not just its state of solvency (see also similar arguments in the section on Article 8). According to the various pieces of evidence mentioned above, the line of reasoning goes as follows: it is true that the option contained in section 1.D does not force the regulator to require reserving of “future bonuses of all kinds” (e.g., discretionary bonuses); however, discretionary bonuses are still an integral part of the company's ‘entire business’, viz.: the option exists does not exonerate the UK authorities from doing their utmost to respect the letter and the aim of the directive. Evidence received by the committee suggests that by not taking into account accrued terminal bonuses (discretionary bonuses) in its overall analysis of the financial health of the company and by focusing exclusively on solvency margins, the regulator disregarded the obligatory concept of ‘entire business’ and, possibly, did not respect the letter and the aim of Article 18. Lord Penrose states clearly (WE 16): the Directive "required prudent reserving for, or some realistic account to be taken of, final bonus. This would have exposed the weakness of the Society at a much earlier stage and would have prompted corrective action.