in the rapporteur's view, be conducted in close co-operation with the relevant specialised committees. 17. Secondly, the rapporteur considers that further analysis might be conducted looking more specifically at the role of NGOs in ensuring qualitative value for money in EU external development assistance. This might be done using the research budget to which the committee on budgets has recourse. Analysis might make a qualitative comparison of the effectiveness of aid implemented through a variety of channels. In order to come to well-grounded conclusions, such analysis would likely need to be based on detailed case-study work on a small selection of programmes. The geographical and sectoral breadth of the programmes to be analysed would probably have to be carefully selected and controlled in order to ensure a reasonable degree of comparability of results. 18. Thirdly, the rapporteur suggests that the committee on budgets might reflect on the tools available to it in the annual budgetary and discharge procedures that might enable it to ensure better qualitative value for money as regards NGO involvement in development assistance. Where appropriate and reliable information is available from cost-benefit studies, reports of the court of auditors and other sources, this might be used as a basis for budgetary amendments that aim to ensure that money is being spent in the most effective and efficient way possible given the difficult conditions that often pertain in poorer countries. on delivering value for money Introduction 1. This working document provides further information on the rapporteur's strategy as regards delivering value for money in the 2007 budget procedure. The first section provides an overview of the value for money amendments proposed by the rapporteur. The second section makes suggestions on process as to how Parliament might effectively scrutinise information provided by the Commission in advance of the second reading on the 2007 budget and regarding the release of amounts placed in reserve. The annex provides detailed information about the problems identified on each budget line for which a value for money amendment is proposed and the conditions for release. I - Overview of the value for money amendments and proposals for follow-up 2. Delivering value for money has been one of the three key pillars of the Parliament's strategy as regards the 2007 budget procedure. The rapporteur has prepared four blocks of horizontal amendments on the value for money approach. These are based on information provided in: the Court of Auditors Special reports; the synthesis reports of the Commission's management of financial resources; the cost-benefit studies produced at the request of the committee on budgets; the Budget Forecast Alert produced by the Commission. · Special reports of the Court of Auditors 3. In its Special Reports, the Court of Auditors examines whether financial operations related to particular programmes and activities have been properly recorded, legally and regularly executed and managed so as to ensure economy, efficiency and effectiveness. The horizontal amendments were based on the problems and weaknesses identified in the special reports examined during the 2004 discharge exercise and those released since. The Commission's replies to the observations of