err on the side of caution when they make judgements. " Hindsight may well show that caution to have been misguided but that does not mean that the initial judgement was ill considered, let alone biased " (WE 43). The Complaints Commissioner further emphasised that the FSA is tightly constrained as to what it can and cannot say about third parties, since it could be sued by the company if the information turned out to be incorrect and damaging. The UK Parliamentary Ombudsman (see below) is currently considering complaints by many individuals, who allege that they " were assured by the FSA that there was no reason to be alarmed as to the solvency of the Society" (WE 43). There are two possible avenues available to policyholders to obtain compensation for alleged failings of the regulator. 1. Non-judicial - the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman Complaints to the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman constitute the first possibility for aggrieved policyholders to obtain compensation. A memorandum of the Parliamentary Ombudsman to the Petitions Committee sets out in detail the Ombudsman's role in general and with regard to the ELAS case in particular (WE 12). Thus, " the Ombudsman's role is to consider complaints (referred to her by a Member of the House of Commons) from individuals who claim to have suffered an unremedied injustice as a result of maladministration on the parts of the bodies falling within her jurisdiction in the discharge of their administrative function. Where the Ombudsman finds that maladministration has caused (or has contributed to) an unremedied injustice, she will make recommendations to remedy such an injustice. However, the Ombudsman has no power to compel a body to accept her recommendations. Nevertheless, her recommendations are normally accepted and a suitable remedy provided. Where it does not happen, the Ombudsman may bring this to Parliament's attention by means of a special report. " EMAG states in its petition that in 2001, more than 600 UK policyholders demanded an investigation by the Ombudsman (WE 14 Page 28. ). Following the investigation, the Ombudsman concluded in her report published in June 2003 that there was no maladministration on the part of the prudential regulator. However, subsequent to the publication of the Penrose report, a second investigation was launched (despite reported opposition against it from the FSA Addendum to petition 29/2005 dated 9 November 2005 concerning FSA and FOS; page 10. ), covering a wider period and with powers to investigate also the actions of the Government's Actuary Department (GAD). This investigation is currently ongoing. The terms of reference for the Ombudsman's investigation are " to determine whether individuals were caused injustice through maladministration in the period prior to December 2001 on the part of the public bodies responsible for the prudential regulation of the Equitable Life Assurance Society and/or the Government's Actuary Department; and to recommend appropriate redress for any injustice so caused " (WE 12 Annex B. ). The Ombudsman will not investigate whether the UK regulatory regime at the time was properly conceived or whether it meets the requirements of EU law but only whether