whereas amongst the prisoners currently being held under sentence of death in the Philippines is the European citizen Francisco Larrañaga, accused of rape and murder, E. whereas despite the fact that his case has all the characteristics of an unfair trial according to international legal standards , the death sentence on Francisco Larrañaga was confirmed in July 2005 and there are no further possibilities of appeal, 1. Endorses all international initiatives which would lead to the abolition of capital punishment worldwide, notably United Nations Commission on Human Rights resolution No 2005/59 on 'The Question of the death penalty' and the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and reiterates its call for the universal abolition of the death penalty, and in the meantime for a moratorium on executions; 2. Calls on the President of the Philippines to reinstate her decision to end the moratorium on the death penalty, and urgently calls on the Philippines Congress to repeal the law on the reintroduction of the death penalty; 3. Supports the legislative initiative of the Philippines Congress for the abolition of the death penalty in the Philippines; 4. Asks the President of the Philippines, Mrs Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, to exercise her powers by granting an absolute pardon to Francisco Larrañaga and securing his immediate release from prison, as well as commuting the death penalty of the prisoners on death row, particularly the 18 child offenders; 5. Calls for a review of the legal procedure leading to the death penalty in this case, and asks for a fair trial to be held on the basis of respect for all legal, penal and jurisdictional guarantees; 6. Calls on the Government and Parliament of the Philippine to take radical steps for the reform of the national law enforcement and criminal justice system; 7. Urges the Commission and Council to take all necessary initiatives to prevent the execution of this EU citizen; 8. Calls on the Council and Commission to consider the abolition of the death penalty and a universal moratorium on executions as an essential element in relations between the EU and third countries, raising this issue when concluding or renewing agreements with third countries; 9. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, the Government and Parliament of the Philippines, and the other ASEAN governments.