WRITTEN QUESTION E-4781/07 by Corien Wortmann-Kool (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (2 October 2007) Subject: Energy label on cars Directives 1999/94/EC OJ L 12, 18.1.2000, p. 16. and 2003/79/EC OJ L 205, 14.8.2003, p. 16. require Member States to indicate by means of an energy label the fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions of new cars. On 7 February 2007, the Commission acknowledged in Communication COM(2007)19 that the label was not working well enough and stated that the Commission would therefore submit a proposal for amendment, inter alia to extend the scope of the provisions to light commercial vehicles and to harmonise the design of the label. Although these measures will certainly help to improve the functioning of the energy label, one important reason why it is not working as it should is that there are major substantive differences between the labels used in different Member States, which make consumers uncertain what the label actually says. Altogether energy labels in the EU use no fewer than 13 different methods of calculation. In one Member State a car will be assigned label B, while in another Member State the same vehicle will be assigned label D. Consumers are also confused because of the sudden transitions within a Member State. For example, within the space of a year a car which first bore label A may be assigned label E. This maze of different energy labels for exactly the same car in different Member States does not give vehicle manufacturers very effective incentives, either. 1. Is the Commission aware of the major differences in energy labels for cars in the Member States? 2. Does the Commission accept that these differences between Member States increase consumer uncertainty as to what exactly energy labels are telling them? 3. One Member State applies an absolute criterion for fuel economy while another applies a relative criterion (focusing on fuel economy within a specific class, so that consumers can make a well-considered decision in favour of fuel economy within the class appropriate to them). From the environmental angle, what is the Commission's opinion concerning absolute versus relative energy labels? 4. Will the Commission consider introducing a single European energy label for cars? What use could be made of Euro Norms in this connection?