WRITTEN QUESTION E-1647/08 by Zuzana Roithová (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (25 March 2008) Subject: Payment of copyright charges for use of communal TV aerials in cooperatively owned buildings We are moving towards a changeover from analogue to digital TV broadcasting in the Czech Republic, as in other countries. A related issue is the fact that hitherto the distribution of TV signals via communal TV aerials in cooperatively-owned blocks of flats was not deemed to constitute a ‘use of the work’, in other words the distribution of the TV signal did not require the payment of special copyright dues. According to the interpretation of the Ministry of Culture in the Czech Republic (in connection with Article 5(3)(o) of Directive 2001/29/EC OJ L 167, 22.6.2001, p. 10 . of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001), the use of communal TV aerials in cooperative blocks of flats would, after the digital switchover, be fully subject to payment of special copyright dues for distribution of the TV signal. A parallel is made with the distribution of TV signals to hotel rooms (an issue resolved by the Court of Justice of the European Communities in the case of SGAE v Rafael Hoteles SA, C‑306/05), for which copyright charges are levied. However, the use of communal TV aerials in cooperative buildings is not fully analogous to the commercial activity involved in hotel complexes. Furthermore, under Czech national legislation (Law No 72/1994 Coll.), the owners of flats are co-owners of the whole building, i.e. thus also of the communal TV aerial. And in cases where the flats, the building and the communal TV aerial are the property of the cooperative (i.e. a specific legal entity), which is only responsible for the operation of the non-public technical installation, it is debatable whether other rules should be made to apply for the payment of special copyright dues simply on the basis of a change in the technology used (digital in place of analogue). 1. Should copyright charges be payable on the use of communal TV aerials in cooperative buildings (in other words, does the Commission consider this technique for distributing the TV signal to constitute a use of the work?) 2. What steps will the Commission take to ensure uniform interpretation of this situation in the internal market (including possible legislative changes)?