Answer given by Mr Kovacs on behalf of the Commission (31 January 2005) The Commission wishes to inform the Honourable Member that it is aware of the differences in the VAT rates applicable within the EU on fertilisers since they conform to the rules defined by the 6th VAT Directive Sixth Council Directive 77/388/EEC of 17 May 1977 on the harmonization of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes - Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment, OJ L 145, 13.6.1977 . Currently, Article 12(3)(a) of the Directive provides that Member States are required to have a single standard rate (of at least 15%) and may have a maximum of two reduced rates (set no lower than 5%) which they can apply as they see fit to the goods and services listed in Annex H of the 6th VAT Directive. Category 10 of Annex H covers ‘Supplies of goods and services of a kind normally intended for use in agricultural production but excluding capital goods such as machinery or buildings’. Therefore, fertilisers may be subject to a reduced rate by the Member States that wish to do so. From the above it can be derived that the use of different reduced rates, for the categories of supplies strictly mentioned in the Annex H, is in principle in accordance with the 6th VAT Directive. In its report on reduced rates of 22 October 2001 COM(2001)599 final , the Commission mentioned (n°28.) that ‘disparities between neighbouring Member States in the application of reduced rates, the failure to harmonise the level of reduced rates and the optional nature of the provisions in the matter can increase the risk of fraud in respect of cross-border purchases.’ In 2003, the Commission presented a proposal for a Directive on reduced rates COM (2003) 397 final . Its aim is to simplify and rationalise the current VAT structure. However, no modification was proposed for the category concerning goods and services intended for use in agricultural production because any possible effects of such disparities on the internal market were still considered to be outbalanced by the benefits for the general interest served herewith. It is now up to the Council to adopt this proposal by unanimity. At this stage, no Member State has asked for deletion of this category 10 from Annex H. All the action of the Commission concerning VAT is based on Article 93 of the EC Treaty. This implies that any harmonisation must be ‘necessary to ensure the establishment and the functioning of the internal market’. In this framework, the Commission on the one hand takes into consideration the case law of the Court of Justice affirming the respect of the fundamental freedoms enshrined in the EC Treaty, and on the other hand it has the institutional task of guaranteeing that the harmonised legislation – depending on the degree of the said harmonisation- receives a correct application from the Member States.