Answer given by Mr Andor on behalf of the Commission (13 December 2011) The European Union, through the European Social Fund (ESF), has made available EUR 4.4 billion to Greece with a view to assisting people in obtaining jobs and helping workers and companies to face new challenges, primarily through upskilling actions. The interventions of the ESF programmes in Greece aim, primarily, at treating the structural deficiencies of the Greek labour market and education and training systems while also addressing the needs of the unemployed or other vulnerable groups. The Greek ESF programmes foresee, for example, a wide range of employment promotion schemes. The ESF in Greece also supports horizontal interventions in the field of social inclusion. It is noted that the design, selection, implementation and monitoring of individual projects under the ESF operational programmes is the responsibility of the managing authorities in each Member State. In order to get more ample information on these projects, the Commission therefore suggests that the Honourable Member contacts directly the managing authority for the ESF operational programme ‘Human Resource Development’ (www.epanad.gov.gr) and the ESF coordination authority (www.esfhellas.gr). In the context of shared management, the Commission is working in close collaboration with the Greek authorities to boost the uptake of ESF funds, especially in these times of crisis. To that end, the Commission has also set up a Taskforce on Greece, with a mandate to work in close collaboration with the Commission to help accelerate the take-up of EU funds, as well as to coordinate the technical assistance needed by Greece to implement the Adjustment Programme. The Taskforce is already in operation and presented its first report to the President of the Commission and the Greek authorities on 16 November. The several changes in the labour market adopted by the Greek Government since May 2010, including subminima wages for young new entrants and the promotion of wage bargaining closer to firms, should help to increase the flexibility of the labour market, improving competitiveness and, therefore, fighting against unemployment and the economic recession overall.