Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (29 October 2007) The Commission would like to remind the Honourable Member that, in the absence of provisions for forestry in the EU Treaty, forest policy is the competence of the Member States. However, the EU offers incentives and financial support as regards fire prevention measures, nature protection, civil protection assistance, restoration of damages and damage mapping. Existing instruments, in particular the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the former Forest Focus Regulation Regulation (EC) No 2152/2003 of Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 concerning monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the Community (Forest Focus), OJ L 324, 11.12.2003. and the LIFE+ Regulation Regulation (EC) No 614/2007 of Parliament and of the Council of 23 May 2007 concerning the Financial Instrument for the Environment (LIFE+), OJ L 149, 9.6.2007. , the Structural and Cohesion Funds (including the EU Solidarity Fund in the case of major disasters), the Natura 2000 network, and the civil protection mechanism can be used by Member States for the development and implementation of their forest protection plans and strategies. Following the events of 2007, further initiatives are currently under preparation. In 2007, the Commission will adopt a communication, which will explore the possibilities for strengthening the Commission policies regarding the response to natural disasters. In 2008, the Commission will adopt a communication on the prevention of natural disasters. In addition, the Commission would like to highlight a number of elements in relation to the specific questions raised. 1. The Commission's European Forest Fire Information System (EFFIS) is a useful tool not only for monitoring and forecasting forest fire risk, but also for assessing and recording damages caused by forest fires. The Joint Research Centre is currently working on the improvement of the fire risk forecasting modules in EFFIS, as well as on the enhancement of the forest fire damage analysis currently available (mapping of all fires larger of 5/10 hectares (ha) in the coming years). Following the Parliament resolution of 2006, EFFIS will be improved from 2008 onwards in several areas, which include (1) the analysis of causes of forest fires, (2) the analysis of socioeconomic impact of forest fires, which will complement the study mentioned above, (3) estimation of forest fire emissions and relation to impact on human health, and finally (4) enhancement of the mapping of forest fire fuels, which are determinant in the ignition and intensity of forest fires. The Commission, in its Green Paper ‘Adapting to climate change in Europe — options for EU action’ COM(2007)354 final. (http://ec.europa.eu/environment/climat/adaptation/index_en.htm). , considers that Europe will not be spared from the adverse impacts of climate change. Southern Europe is expected to suffer particularly due to the combined effect of high temperature increases and decreasing precipitation. There is an obvious link between these changing climate conditions and increased risks of forest fires, although climate change is not the only factor affecting those risks. The Green Paper places much emphasis on prevention, preparedness and early action in order to limit damage and costs due to