at the contradictory reports of international organisations and NGOs about the conduct of the local and regional elections of 31 October; takes note of the allegations of falsifications and fraud levelled by some opposition leaders; 4. Calls on the Ukrainian competent authorities to carry out the investigations in a quick and transparent manner and to come in due time to tangible results for improving the incomplete and restrictive electoral legislation in regard to the preparation and conduct of future elections; 5. Calls on the Ukrainian authorities to abstain from any interference in future pre-elections processes e.g. non-registration of candidates and parties, pressure against opposition and media; 6. Calls upon the authorities to fully investigate all reports of infringements of rights and freedoms and to remedy any violations found; and to investigate the role of the SBU with regard to interference in the democratic process; 7. Is concerned about the cases of violence and intimidation of journalists and the disappearance of Novy Styl reporter Vasyl Klymentiev on 11 August 2010; is confident that Ukrainian authorities will take all necessary measures to complete the investigation; 8. Is concerned about recent developments that could undermine the freedom and pluralism of the media; calls upon the authorities to take all necessary measures to protect these essential aspects of a democratic society and to refrain from any attempts to control, directly or indirectly, the content of the reporting in the national media; stresses the urgent need for a legal reform of the media sector and therefore welcomes a recent proposal for Public Service Broadcasting in Ukraine; also welcomes public assurances by the Ukrainian authorities that a legal framework needed to establish a public broadcaster, will be concluded by the end of the year; calls upon the authorities to ensure that legal proceedings do not result in the selective revocation of broadcasting frequencies and to review any decision or appointment that could lead to a conflict of interest; 9. Calls on the Ukrainian government to bring the legislation on media freedom in line with OSCE standards; 10. Calls for the quick adoption of the bill on the access to information due to set binding rules and clear deadlines for the administration and public servants as regards the access to information for journalists and citizens; 11. Expresses its concern at the violent break-up of the peaceful demonstrations against the alleged illegal construction of a road through Gorki park in Kharkiv in preparation of Euro 2012 that took place last May and June with the harassment and arrests of activists by security forces and other law enforcement agencies; 12. Regrets that election rules remain an ongoing subject of discussion and points out that the existing election law, as amended in August 2009, is regarded by OSCE/ODHIR as a backward step compared to previous legislation, resulting in unclear and incomplete legal framework; 13. Underlines the need to strengthen the credibility and stability, independence and effectiveness of institutions thereby guaranteeing democracy and the rule of law and promoting a consensual constitutional reform process based on clear separation of powers and effective checks