at the first reading. According to the approved text, the law applicable, in case of defamation by media, should be the one of the country to which the publication or broadcasting service is principally directed or, if this is not apparent, the country in which editorial control is exercised. Finally, MEPs approved a general review clause asking the Commission to present a report on the application of the Regulation four years after the entry into force. Non-contractual obligations arising out of family relationships, matrimonial property regimes and succession are excluded from the Regulation's scope. Conciliation probable Three years and a half after the beginning of the legislative procedure, disagreements between the Council and the Parliament still persist on few but relevant issues. Particularly, Member States do not want the rules on defamation to be included in the Regulation's scope. Therefore, the text is likely to pass through the conciliation procedure, where Member States and MEPs, equally represented, will have to debate further to find a compromise and approve the Regulation. According to Commission Vice-President Franco Frattini, who spoke before the vote, with regards to the approved rules on defamation, "there is no way they will get through" in the Council. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-006-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-008-EN DOC XML V0//EN External relations MEPs condemn Libyan court death sentence on five Bulgarian nurses and Palestinian doctor 2007-01-22 - 12:29 The House adopted a joint resolution with 567 votes in favour, 1 against and 7 abstentions condemning the verdict of the Criminal Court in Libya on 19 December 2006, convicting, in a re-trial, and sentencing to death five Bulgarian nurses, Kristiana Vulcheva, Nasya Nenova, Valentina Siropulo, Valya Chervenyashka and Snezhana Dimitrova, and one Palestinian doctor, Ashraf al-Haiui, who have already spent eight years in prison in connection with the 1999 HIV/AIDS case at the Benghazi hospital. On 9 February 1999 the Libyan authorities detained a number of Bulgarian medics working at the 'Al-Fatih' hospital in Benghazi, and whereas on 7 February 2000 a trial against six Bulgarian nationals, one Palestinian and nine Libyans started at the Libyan People’s Court on a charge of deliberately infecting several hundred children with the HIV virus. MEPs reiterate their radical opposition to the death penalty and recall that the EU considers that the abolition of the death penalty contributes to the enhancement of human dignity and the progressive development of human rights. The House stresses, at the same time, that the EU has now moved beyond this commitment and now espouses abolition of capital punishment in and third countries. The House reiterates its serious concern with regard to the basis on which the accused persons were prosecuted, their treatment while in custody and the lengthy delays in the process. Parliament underlines that, as from January 2007, the Benghazi trial directly concerns five citizens of the European Union. The House invites the Libyan authorities concerned to take the necessary measures to review and annul