to make it more accessible, online collection should be encouraged. Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia, that the person can be identified and that the data are securely stored. Citizens' confidence in the citizens' initiative scheme will be one of the main contributors to its success. For this purpose, the Commission should be required to set out detailed technical specifications for online collection systems in order to facilitate the process . The Commission should freely make available secure tools enabling online signatures to be collected in a way which does not jeopardise privacy. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 13 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (13) It is appropriate that the Commission should take a decision on the admissibility of proposed initiatives at a sufficiently early stage . The organiser should therefore request such a decision after it has collected 300.000 statements of support for the proposed initiative from signatories coming from at least three Member States. (13) It is appropriate that the Commission should take a decision on the admissibility of proposed initiatives before gathering signatures . The Commission should examine the admissibility of an initiative without delay after it has been registered. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) It is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories and provided it is considered admissible, each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. (15) It is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories and provided it is considered admissible, each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. With online collections of signatures, an additional check of the validity of signatures, besides the technical verification, is needed. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Recital 23 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (23) The Commission should report on the implementation of this Regulation five years after its entry into force. (23) The Commission should report on the implementation of this Regulation two years after its entry into force. Justification The review of the success of the initiative should take place within a period long enough to allow for full completion of its implementation process and at the same time short enough to ensure that it