assessment shall be based on an examination of the following elements: the type of data, the purposes and duration of processing for which the data are transferred, the country of origin and the country of final destination, the general and sectoral rules of law applicable in the third country or body in question, the professional and security rules which are applicable there, as well as the existence of sufficient safeguards put in place by the recipient of the transfer. 3. The Member States and the Commission shall inform each other and the European Parliament of cases where they consider that a third country or an international body does not ensure an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2. 4. Where the Commission, after consulting the Council and the European Parliament, establishes that a third country or international body does not ensure an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2, the Member States shall take the measures necessary to prevent any transfer of personal data to the third country or international body in question. 5. The Commission, after consulting the Council and the European Parliament, may establish that a third country or international body ensures an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2, by reason of its domestic law and of the international agreements it has entered into, for the protection of the private lives and basic freedoms and rights of individuals. 6. Exceptionally, as a derogation from paragraph 1, point (c), personal data may be transferred to competent authorities of third countries or to international bodies in or by which an adequate level of data protection is not ensured if absolutely necessary in order to safeguard the essential interests of a Member State or for the prevention of an imminent serious danger threatening public security or a specific person or persons. In such a case, personal data may be processed by the receiving party only insofar as they are absolutely necessary for the specific purpose for which they were transmitted. Such transfers shall be notified to the competent supervisory authority. Amendment 30 Article 9, paragraph 6 6. Member States shall, without prejudice to national criminal procedure, provide that personal data are marked on request of the data subject if their accuracy is denied by the data subject and if their accuracy or inaccuracy cannot be ascertained. Such mark shall only be deleted with the consent of the data subject or on the basis of a decision of the competent court or of the competent supervisory authority. deleted Amendment 31 Article 9, paragraph 7, indent 3 - if these data are not or no longer necessary for the purpose for which they were transmitted or made available. - and in any event if these data are not or no longer necessary for the purpose for which they were transmitted or made available. Amendment 32 Article 9, paragraph 9 a (new) 9a. Member States shall provide that the quality of personal data transmitted or made available by third countries is specifically assessed as soon as