Answer given by High Representative/Vice President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (2 July 2010) The Statement of the High Representative/Vice President (HR/VP) welcomed the peaceful conduct of the Ethiopian Elections and congratulated the Ethiopian people on their commitment to the democratic process, as demonstrated by the high voter turnout. Rather than contradicting the Preliminary Statement, the HR/VP is in agreement with the EOM on these positive aspects of the electoral process. Rather, she calls for all political actors in Ethiopia to address the problems encountered and to commit to further strengthening democracy. The final report of the EOM will provide a thorough analysis of both positive and negative aspects of the electoral process and will contain a comprehensive set of recommendations for bringing future Ethiopian elections into compliance with international standards. There is every intention to maximise the use of the final report of the EOM as a reference document for future dialogue, when it becomes available. Although the Exploratory Mission deployed to Ethiopia noted concerns over the democratic space and the electoral environment, and that it was likely that the EU EOM would be critical, a number of important considerations led to the decision to deploy an EU EOM. There were calls for EU observation from Ethiopian opposition parties and civil society organisations, and the deployment of an EOM was unanimously supported by EU Member States. It was considered that the presence of EU observers could enhance respect for political and civil rights and deter violence and procedural irregularities. The EU EOM was the only long-term observation mission using a credible methodology and, as such, will be useful in providing an expert and unbiased record of electoral events. This methodology is protected through a Code of Conduct and Memoranda of Understanding, concluded through constructive negotiations with the Ethiopian authorities, committing to allowing the EOM to work independently. Observing elections in Ethiopia sends a clear signal that the EU remains committed to human rights, democratisation and the rule of law. An independent assessment of the electoral process will serve to strengthen our dialogue in these areas. Indeed, not sending a mission would have suggested that the EU has ‘given up’ on democracy in Ethiopia. For a democratisation process to be credible and durable, it should be internally driven and anchored. The EU can only play a supportive role. The EU therefore also runs electoral assistance programmes which fund electoral reforms, often based on recommendations made by EU EOMs in their final reports. This important component of the EU’s electoral support work is separate from, but complimentary to, the work of EU EOMs. The EU is committed to strongly promote and seek genuine implementation by the Ethiopian authorities of the recommendations to be made in the final report.