paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. " Organiser " means a natural or legal person or organisation responsible for the preparation and submission of a citizens’ initiative to the Commission. 3. " Organisers " means natural persons forming a citizens' committee responsible for the preparation and submission of a citizens’ initiative to the Commission. Organisations that, in accordance with the Treaty, contribute to forming European political awareness and to expressing the will of citizens of the Union may directly support a citizens' initiative , provided that they do so with full transparency. (This amendment, namely to change "organiser" to "organisers", applies throughout the text. Adopting it will necessitate corresponding changes throughout.) Justification A genuine citizens' initiative should, per definitionem , be a tool of participatory democracy which is open for citizens of the Union and not for legal persons. Therefore the organisers should only be citizens (natural persons). The organisers should form a citizens' committee in order to be able to launch an initiative. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – title Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Requirements for the organiser and for signatories Requirements for organisers and for signatories Justification A citizens' initiative should be launched by a citizens' committee made up of natural persons who are citizens of the Union. Therefore this title has to be adjusted accordingly. Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Where the organiser is a natural person, that person shall be a citizen of the Union and be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections. 1. Organisers shall be citizens of the Union and be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections. Where the organiser is a legal person or an organisation it shall be established in a Member State . Organisations which do not have legal personality under the applicable national law shall have representatives that have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on their behalf and assume liability. Justification The use of plural is justified by Article 3 paragraph 1a (new). The deletion is necessary because organisers should only be natural persons. Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1a (new) - subparagraphs 1 and 2 (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Organisers shall form a citizens' committee of at least seven persons who are residents of at least seven Member States. The organisers shall designate one representative and one substitute, who shall perform a liaison function between the citizens' committee and the institutions of the European Union throughout the procedure and who shall be mandated to speak and act on behalf of the citizens' committee. Justification In order to facilitate the emergence of real European-wide issues, the reflection on those issues and the collection of signatures throughout the Union, the initiative should be proposed by a defined number of citizens who should set up a citizens' committee. The committee should be able to speak with one voice, hence the obligation