ambiguities generate legal uncertainties and discrepancies when texts are transposed into national law, with the potential for distortion of competition and fragmentation of the internal market. It would therefore be desirable that all the community bodies involved in the lawmaking process take into account the potential difficulties of application of EU law at the drafting stage, by putting more effort into assessing foreseeable difficulties which may arise. Furthermore, when adopting EU legislation, it is important for Member States to be required to provide so-called correspondence tables, indicating how each of the provisions is transposed into national legislation. The Commission now makes it a point of principle to include in its proposals a request for correspondence tables. However, they are, regrettably, eliminated in the course of the legislative procedure in three-quarters of all cases. It is probable that many Member States find these correlation tables burdensome and therefore seek to remove the provision from the proposal, and in many cases they are successful. It is therefore necessary for the European Parliament to ensure consistent support for the insistence on correspondence tables in new legislation. Once EU legislation is adopted, increased efforts must be made proactively to assist the Member States in transposing it into national law, for instance through the regular publication of interpretative communications and guidance texts. In addition, transposition workshops and seminars should be used more systematically because they allow the authorities of Member States to exchange their views and discuss the correct transposition of key provision and requirements contained in EU directives and may thereby contribute to a more uniform implementation throughout the EU. Subsequently, in monitoring transposition, the Commission should not only check whether the EU provisions have been transposed formally but also pay more attention to evaluating the quality of the implementing measures, since many cases of incorrect implementation are the result of poor quality national legislation, which sometimes reflects Member States' deliberate efforts to undermine EU legislation for political, administrative and economic reasons. In addition, directives are often transposed in a fragmented way, i.e. not into one single national law but spread throughout different acts of varying levels in the legal hierarchy. It is clear that this way of transposing, though legally legitimate, is not helpful either for monitoring implementation or for transparency's sake. In this context, it is worth quoting Commissioner McCreevy (H8): " However, to be brutally honest, for some of the transpositions, you would have to be an absolute genius to find the needle in the haystack of the particular implementing legislation as to where the original EU directive is." These issues must be addressed when the Commission assesses the quality of transposition. Most importantly, however, there has to be a more systematic and proactive assessment of how EU legislation is being applied in practice. As far as key directives are concerned, the Commission may not only rely on complaints and press reports before it starts investigating possible problems. Instead, it should be proactive in looking into the practical application of key pieces of EU legislation throughout the Member States. It should first assess