Answer given by Mr Mandelson on behalf of the Commission (4 June 2007) Certain types of subsidies provided to Boeing's military business through programmes of the United States (US) Department of Defense (DOD) do enable Boeing to produce new materials and components at no cost to Boeing or at a cost well below the cost that Boeing would have otherwise incurred in order to develop these new materials or technologies. These subsidies are provided in different ways, including: — funding of research and development (R & D) related to dual-use technologies (i.e. technologies applicable to both military and commercial aircraft), — reimbursement of expenses incurred in the context of military procurement bids, — transfer to Boeing of valuable patent rights, rights to trade secrets, and exclusive rights to certain data for LCA-related technologies, — provision to Boeing of facilities, equipment, and employees for LCA-related R & D, at no cost to Boeing. In addition, the US government — through NASA and the US Department of Commerce (DOC) — provides additional subsidies to Boeing whose objective is indeed to help Boeing develop new materials and technologies. One example of this is the NASA R & D program through which NASA funded the development of advanced composite technologies and materials for application on Boeing's latest aircraft model, the B-787. The Commission estimates all of the above subsidies at USD 16.6 billion over the past two decades. Along with other federal State and local subsidies, these subsidies are challenged by the EU in its World Trade Organisation (WTO) case against US support to Boeing (DS353). A fact sheet containing all the US subsidies that the EU is challenging in its WTO case is available on the Commission's website http://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/docs/2007/april/tradoc_134406.pdf . The full version of the EU's first written submission in this case will be available on the Commission's website shortly after the first WTO Panel meeting in Geneva (scheduled to take place on 11-12 July 2007). The Commission does not have any information indicating how US could be supporting Boeing through the management of euro/dollar exchange rate. The Commission does not provide subsidies specifically to Airbus or any other aeronautics company. It does however implement RTD activities in Aeronautics & Air Transport within the Thematic Priority Transport (incl. Aeronautics) of the 7th Research Framework Programme (FP7). Like other companies and bodies, Airbus and its partners of the technology supply chain may apply for support for research projects. These FP7 activities are typically complementary to research activities of the Member States and must be compliant with EU competition regulations and WTO rules. Airbus, together with other major European aeronautics companies, is a key participant of the proposed ‘Clean Sky’ joint technology initiative which, once put forward by the Commission and adopted through the interinstitutional decision making process, will run for 7 years and will lead to the greening of air transport in Europe and beyond.