the views expressed on the subject by the European Parliament, 1. Calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and prisoners of conscience who are being held in the country and once again condemns such detentions, which constitute an attack on the most basic human rights, in particular freedom of expression and freedom of political association; 2. Urges the Council and the Commission to continue to take whatever action is necessary in order to seek the release of the above individuals; 3. Reiterates that the objectives of the European Union’s policy towards Cuba continue to be respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, encouragement of a process of transition to a pluralist democracy and a lasting economic recovery aimed at improving the living standards of the Cuban population; 4. Vehemently condemns the Cuban authorities’ expulsion of three parliamentarians from the EU Member States and of two representatives of NGOs, and expresses its support for them and for the members of the democratic opposition; 5. Repeats its invitation to the winner of the European Parliament’s 2002 Sakharov Prize - Oswaldo Payá Sardiñas - and urges the Cuban authorities to grant him the necessary permits in order to enable him to appear before the Community institutions; 6. Considers that, in such circumstances, the release of all political prisoners, the granting of authorisation to Mr Payá Sardiñas and evidence of significant progress on the island as regards the promotion of democracy and the upholding of human rights and fundamental freedoms are essential conditions for any revision of the European Union’s Common Position on Cuba and the measures adopted unanimously on 5 June 2003; 7. Stresses that the current embargo imposed on Cuba by the USA is counterproductive and should be lifted; 8. Stresses that the political future of Cuba must rest on the sole will of its citizens; 9. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, to Cuba’s Government and National Assembly of People’s Power, and also to Oswaldo Payá Sardiñas (winner of the European Parliament’s Sakharov Prize).