proposes adjustments to the EIB's external lending mandate (EIB loans guaranteed through the guarantee mechanism), so as to take account of the Wider Europe - New Neighbourhood policy (it should be noted that the terminology should be changed to the European Neighbourhood Policy. 2. The general external lending mandate of the EIB is laid down in a Council decision granting a guarantee for external lending Decision 2000/24/EC and as amended in Decisions: 1999/786/EC, 2000/688/EC, 2000/788/EC and 2001/777/EC. . 3. The legislative proposal is also combined with a report of about 70 pages on the "Mid-Term Review" of the EIB external-lending mandate. Although of a high quality, this is in fact a report that does little to explain the (geo) political considerations, which are presumably at the heart of the Commission's legislative proposal to change the lending ceilings. 4. As will be seen, some very significant changes to the Union's lending capacity in certain regions are being proposed. Unfortunately, and in the rapporteur's view quite unjustifiably, these important changes foresee an extremely limited role for the EP as the proposal is being made under simple consultation. 5. However, it should be underlined that 65% (coverage) of the aggregate amounts of these loans will be guaranteed through the Guarantee Fund the payments to which are coming from the EU budget. It is therefore perfectly justified and right that the EP, and the budgets committee in particular, take and interest in changes made to the lending mandate. 6. Although the proposal falls under the simple consultation procedure, in this case ECOFIN is foreseen to take the decision - the objective in such matters should be to allow Parliament and Council jointly to agree on priorities for using the lending margin and, such as in this case, come to some sort of agreement on how those political priorities are changed. 7. After all, the various considerations (development, security, foreign policy, environment etc, etc) for making a choice as to what loans could be given to which countries, and for which amounts, is not essentially a technical question, but a matter for political consideration. 8. From the outset, it must therefore be said that your rapporteur has questions as to how this proposal is being justified, from the point of view of transparency and parliamentary accountability, and that he is of the opinion that the EP should not rush into a decision for an opinion even though the current legislature is drawing to a close. The Commission proposal 9. The proposal of the Commission is a revision up until the end of the current mandate period (31 January 2007) for the Community budget guarantee to the European Investment Bank, concerning the loans the EIB grants to third countries. 10. The revision is prompted by the fact that the 10 acceding countries will no longer be part of these loans and guarantee arrangements as of 1 May 2004. The amount of loans signed with the Accession countries amount € 2 127 million (31 December 2002). 11. It should be said from the start that the revision comprises very