ensure similar conditions for citizens to support a citizens' initiative, these minimum numbers should be degressively proportional to the size of each Member State . For the purpose of clarity they should be set out for each Member State in an Annex to the present Regulation . (6) For that purpose, it is also appropriate to establish the minimum number of citizens coming from each of those Member States. In order to ensure similar conditions for citizens to support a citizens' initiative, these minimum numbers should be degressively proportional as provided for in Article 14(2) TEU with regard to the number of Members of the European Parliament per Member State . To this end, the minimum number required in each Member State should be equal to the number, multiplied by a factor of 750, of Members of the European Parliament elected in that State. For the purpose of clarity these minimum numbers should be set out in an Annex to the present Regulation. The Commission should be empowered to amend this annex when the composition of the European Parliament is modified. Justification The distribution of seats in the European Parliament will be altered on a regular basis in accordance with a formula respecting in full the principle of degressive proportionality. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7a) A minimum organised structure is needed in order to successfully carry through a citizens' initiative. This should take the form of a citizens' committee, composed of natural persons (organisers) coming from a number of different Member States, in order to encourage the emergence of European-wide issues and to foster reflection on those issues. For the sake of transparency and smooth and efficient communication, the citizens' committee should designate representatives to perform a liaison function between the committee and the institutions of the Union throughout the procedure. Justification The citizens' initiative is conceived in order to give the opportunity to citizens to participate in the democratic life of the Union. It should only be open to natural persons who establish a citizens' committee. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( 7b ) It must be ensured that all signatories and organisers, irrespective of sex, racial or ethnic origin, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief, have equal opportunities to participate in a citizens´ initiative and that the principles of non-discrimination are complied with . Information about citizens´ initiatives should be accessible and easy to understand for everyone. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives, it should be mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary statements of support from citizens ; proposals that are abusive or devoid of seriousness should not be registered and the Commission should reject the registration of proposals which would be manifestly against the values of the Union. The Commission should deal