Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (29 March 2010) The centralised procedure established by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency, OJ L 136, 30.4.2004. enables applicants to obtain a marketing authorisation that is valid throughout the European Union. The procedure results in a Commission decision to authorise the medicinal product. This decision is binding on all Member States and valid throughout the EU. However, this does not mean that centrally authorised medicinal products will be immediately or automatically available to patients in all Member States. The marketing authorisation holder is, first of all, not obliged to place the product on the market in every Member State. In addition, patients’ access to medicinal products (including centrally authorised products) is often conditional upon national policy decisions. According to Article 168(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, competence for the definition of health policies and for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care lies with the Member States. It is their responsibility to manage healthcare budgets, while ensuring appropriate access to treatments for their citizens. In this context, the national authorities are free to regulate the prices of medicinal products and to determine the conditions of their inclusion within the scope of the national health insurance system. National pricing and reimbursement decisions are based on a variety of factors specific to each country, such as historical and social traditions, public health priorities or budgetary considerations. This creates discrepancies between countries and influences patients’ access to medicines across the EU. The Commission was not aware of the specific situation described by the Honourable Member and understands that it falls within the scope of national competence. Nevertheless, Member States must ensure that the national rules don not hinder the free movement of goods (Articles 34‑36 TFUE) and that domestic pricing and reimbursement decisions are made in a timely and transparent manner, in accordance with the provisions of Council Directive 89/105/EEC Directive 89/105/EEC of 21 December 1988 relating to the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion within the scope of national health insurance system, OJ L 40, 11.2.1989. . In particular, the directive lays down specific time-limits for the adoption of national decisions on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products. This time, limits are binding on all Member States.