marginalized and vulnerable populations of this planet: Poverty alleviation, sustainable human, social and economic development - in short: the right to a decent life for all. The difficulty in recognising the different and specific mandate of our development policy and translating it into concrete programmes and measures was apparent in some of the programming documents issued by the Commission under the DCI. They therefore lack the clear focus on poverty eradication in the context of sustainable development and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) which is the primary and overarching objective of the DCI. Parliament clearly recognises the importance for the EU of certain activities in developing countries (including cultural, citizen-to-citizen contacts, political dialogue, etc.) which do not fulfil the OECD/DAC criteria for Official Development Assistance (ODA). But these must not be financed from the EU's development budget. Parliament therefore called for an instrument which would enable the EU to finance such actions from sources other than the DCI. While repeating its position that the so-called “ICI+” instrument must not be financed by a transfer of funds from the DCI, Parliament will continue to engage constructively in the ongoing negotiations on this regulation. Your rapporteur acknowledges that in particular during the mid-term review of the strategy papers in 2009/2010, the democratic scrutiny dialogue has helped to avoid the adoption of strategy papers containing ultra vires provisions. However, our scrutiny also confirmed that the risk of infusion of foreign policy interests, a lack of poverty and MDG focus and concerns regarding an adequate consultation of stakeholders continue to exist. Perspectives for the future In connection with the debate on the next MFF, the Commission indicated that it may reconsider the overall structure of the external financing instruments. Further simplification and adaptation to new challenges, such as climate change, as well as the proper place for the external dimension of the EU’s internal policies, are important aspects that must be taken into consideration. At this early stage, your rapporteur will not make detailed suggestions on the architecture, but rather focus on the key principles which need to be reflected in the future EU development policy. The very first of these key principles and the starting point of our reflections is that there is a need for a separate development cooperation instrument, which specifically and exclusively targets developing countries and pursues the objectives defined in Article 208 TFEU. For the sake of transparency, non-ODA cooperation with developing (including “emerging”) countries should be channelled through a separate instrument. An overhaul of the architecture, should also lead to the resolution of a decades-old anomaly: in order to ensure equal treatment for all developing countries and to enhance democratic accountability of all EU development policy, the EDF should be brought into the EU budget. This may not, however, lead to any reduction in real terms in the financing of either the DCI or the EDF (as compared to their present levels), nor of the aggregate amount of funds made available at EU level for ODA. Adequate Funding The future instrument for supplying EU development aid must be adequately equipped