Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (18 March 2009) The Commission was not aware of the broadcasts mentioned by the Honourable Members (having received no complaints in this regard) and shares their concerns about their allegedly unsuitable content. As the Honourable Members rightly point out, the Audiovisual Media Services Directive Directive 89/552/EEC as last amended by Directive 2007/65/EC on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services — OJ L 332, 18.12.2007. seeks to establish freedom of reception within the EU Member States. At the same time, it establishes minimum standards for protection of minors. According to Article 22 of the directive, programmes which might ‘seriously impair’ the development of minors (in particular pornography or gratuitous violence) are prohibited. Those which might be ‘harmful’ to minors must — where they are not encrypted — be preceded by an acoustic warning or made clearly identifiable throughout their duration by means of a visual symbol Article 22 reads as follows: ‘1. Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that television broadcasts by broadcasters under their jurisdiction do not include any programmes which might seriously impair the physical, mental or moral development of minors, in particular programmes that involve pornography or gratuitous violence. 2. The measures provided for in paragraph 1 shall also extend to other programmes which are likely to impair the physical, mental or moral development of minors, except where it is ensured, by selecting the time of the broadcast or by any technical measure, that minors in the area of transmission will not normally hear or see such broadcasts. 3. Furthermore, when such programmes are broadcast in unencoded form Member States shall ensure that they are preceded by an acoustic warning or are identified by the presence of a visual symbol throughout their duration.’ . In addition, according to Article 3h of the directive, on-demand services which might seriously impair the physical, mental or moral development of minors must be only made available in such a way that ensures that minors will not normally hear or see such services Article 3h read as follows: ‘Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that on demand audiovisual media services provided by media service providers under their jurisdiction which might seriously impair the physical, mental or moral development of minors are only made available in such a way that ensures that minors will not normally hear or see such on-demand audiovisual media services.’ . The Commission will examine with the Czech and the United Kingdom authorities whether the rules of the directive were breached with these broadcasts, and, in the affirmative, will require the responsible Member States to ensure that these rules are complied with by the broadcasters under their jurisdiction.