and confuse matters as regards EU external representation in third countries should not be exaggerated. III - Summary of the ideas discussed at the internal aspects hearing on 20 June 15. This section briefly summarises the main points made and ideas raised by each of the invited expert speakers per section of the hearing. The summary covers their opening remarks and responses to questions from members Based upon notes provided by the secretariat of the committee on budgets. .. Introducing the PDB 2007 - internal policy aspects 16. Dalia Grybauskaite , European Commissioner for financial programming and budget: · The EU budget is being re-focused towards competitiveness for growth and employment: the proportion of the EU budget spent in this area is set to rise from 6.5 % in 2006 to a projected 10.2 % in 2013. · Spending on freedom, security and justice is due to double over the new MFF. · The EU's annual policy planning and budget cycles should be mutually consistent and coherent. · Welcomed the idea of improving cost-benefit approaches and noted that the Commission would operate an early-warning system to analyse the effectiveness of spending as regards a number of programmes. Research, innovation and energy 17. Iain Begg , London School of Economics: · The EU budget for research represents roughly 1/60th of the overall amount that would be necessary to reach the Lisbon Strategy target of research and development spending at 3% of EU GDP. · Excellence should be the criterion according to which EU research funding is allocated: re-distribution is for other elements of the budget. · Levels of innovation in the EU economy could also be improved by creating an environment that rewards innovation and creativity: this might be done through creating more prizes for innovation and research and via publicity material, for example. · The rules for applying for EU research funding are at present too onerous and should be simplified wherever possible. · Energy research is an area where the EU could look to play to its existing research strengths, including in the areas of wind-power and renewable energy technology. 18. Giles Chichester , Chairman of the ITRE committee : · It is a disappointment that the Commission's initial proposals as regards research funding were significantly reduced in the final package for the 2007 - 2013 MFF. · The European Research Council should play an important role in improving the co-ordination of EU research funding. · Excellence should be the basis on which research funding is allocated. · Research in the energy sector should also cover efficiency of energy usage and demand management. · Simpler rules are needed to apply for EU research funding and a simpler regulatory environment for SMEs could help to boost innovation. 19. Jose-Manuel Silva Rodriguez , Director-General Research, European Commission: · The private sector provides about two-thirds of the funds spent on research in the EU each year. · The point about the need to simplify the procedures linked to applications for and awarding of EU research funds is frequently made. · The ongoing revision of