P5_TA(2000)0386 Human rights: Turkish bombing in the north of Iraq B5-0672 , 0715 , 0731 and 0744/2000 European Parliament resolution on the Turkish bombardment of northern Iraq The European Parliament, - having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation in Turkey and, in particular, those concerning the Turkish bombardment of northern Iraq, A. whereas Turkey has ratified the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the International Convention against Torture, B. whereas the European Council meeting in Helsinki in December 1999 conferred on Turkey the status of a candidate country, C. whereas the Turkish army bombarded villages in the Kendakor region of northern Iraq on 15 August 2000, claiming the lives of scores of civilians and wounding dozens of others, D. whereas a delegation of the Turkish Human Rights Association wishing to examine the effects of the recent bombardment has not received authorisation to visit the area concerned, E. whereas the Turkish army's bombardment of Kurdish villages in northern Iraq constitutes a violation of the territorial integrity of Iraq and of international law, F. whereas Turkey, as an EU candidate country, has pledged itself to fulfil the Copenhagen criteria, 1. Expresses its condolences to the families of the victims of the Turkish bombardment of northern Iraq on15 August 2000; 2. Calls for respect for the international borders of all countries in the region and, therefore, condemns all Turkish incursions into Iraqi territory as contrary to international law; 3. Reiterates its firm conviction that recognition of and respect for the fundamental rights of the Kurds is an essential aspect of the process of democratisation in Turkey and of that country's process of accession to the Union in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria; 4. Calls on the Member States to comply with the Code of Conduct on arms exports in the case of Turkey as well; 5. Reaffirms its belief that only a political and peaceful settlement of the 'Kurdish question', which must include remedying the underdevelopment of the south-eastern regions of Turkey, can contribute to the stabilisation and development of the region; 6. Calls on the Council and the Commission to stress that only respect for human rights, the rule of law and international law will enable Turkey to continue to claim the status of a candidate country for accession to the European Union; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Turkish Government and the Turkish parliament.