exchange rates should reflect underlying market fundamentals in order to enhance openness and flexibility and to facilitate economic adjustment, and therefore should not be managed or manipulated by national monetary authorities; 7. Urges members of the IMF to adhere to the Articles of Agreement, especially the commitment to refrain from manipulating the exchange rate, and the relevant provisions of the GATT and WTO Agreements; 8. Urges reconsideration of the use of ‘Special Drawing Rights’ (SDRs) as a possible replacement for the dollar as the world's reserve currency, which could help stabilise the global financial system; asks the IMF to explore further allocation as well as a broader use of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) in particular for the purpose of enhancing the multilateral exchange rate system; 9. Supports the work and commitments of G20 States to implement properly phased growth-friendly fiscal consolidation plans in the medium term while supporting domestic demand at a pace determined by each country's circumstances, pursuing appropriate monetary policies, enhancing exchange rate flexibility to better reflect underlying economic fundamentals, and undertaking structural reforms to foster job creation and contribute to global rebalancing; 10. Notes, however, that, otherwise, prospects at G20 level of correcting global imbalances so far seem limited; 11. Urges the World Trade Organization (WTO) to take an active role in identifying and addressing possible trade distortions in financial services caused by differing regulatory regimes; 12. Calls on the Commission to design a comprehensive mechanism, largely based on and strongly interlinked with WTO regulations, that would prevent the use of trade as a foreign-policy tool in a way contrary to internationally recognised democratic values, as reflected in the Charter of the United Nations; 13. Calls on the Commission to raise at the next EU-USA meeting of the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC) the issue of mutual cooperation on supervision of commodity derivatives in line with existing transparency and market abuse regulation; 14. Calls on the EU to implement declarations by the G8/G20 summits, in particular with regard to subsidies for fossil fuels and agriculture, taking into account the OECD guidelines in this domain, and to food price volatility and commodities markets; 15. Calls on the Commission to revise its trade strategy with regard to strengthening south-south trade and intra-regional trade in other parts of the world in order to decrease the vulnerability of many small economies and to contribute to the development of strengthened economic partners in the future; 16. Supports the establishment of a timetable for an action plan that will implement the G20 Framework for Strong, Sustainable and Balanced Growth; 17. Welcomes all initiatives for further discussion and cooperation on common global challenges but notes that many of the current fora, like the G20, are only for informal discussion, without legal basis or the attributes of international organisations in their decision-making processes or in the implementation and supervision of their decisions, and will as such remain weak as governing structures; 18. Notes that the consensus method of decision-making which characterises many of the global cooperation bodies does not encourage bold decisions to be taken and often leads