development of technologies relating to air traffic control systems during the development phase (2008-2013). Justification This is in line with the twofold legal basis proposed, i.e. Articles 171 and 173 of the EC Treaty. Amendment 12 Recital 17 (17) The main task of the Joint Undertaking must be to organise and coordinate the SESAR project by combining public and private sector funding and using external technical resources, provided by its members, and in particular Eurocontrol’s experience. (17) The main task of the Joint Undertaking must be to organise and coordinate the SESAR project by combining public and private sector funding and using external technical resources, provided by its members, and in particular Eurocontrol’s experience and expertise . Justification The reference to EUROCONTROL’s experience has to be completed by mentioning the 40 years of civil and military expertise of this Organisation. TRAN Amendment 13 Recital 17a (new) (17a) It is desirable for the private sector to be appropriately involved in all phases, especially in the development phase , so as to ensure the liability of private-sector participants during the deployment phase. Justification The industry can have some problems related their liability when install a new system if they are not appropriately involved in the development of the technological bases. Amendment 14 Recital 20 (20) The rules for the organisation and operation of the Joint Undertaking should be laid down by drawing up the statutes of the Joint Undertaking. (20) The rules for the organisation and operation of the Joint Undertaking and for the avoidance of conflicts of interests within the Joint Undertaking and the procedure for the appointment of its officials should be laid down by drawing up the statutes of the Joint Undertaking as set out in the Annex . Justification Two other amendments to Article 3(1) and to Annex, article 6(1) should be taken into account. Amendment 15 Recital 20 a (new) (20a) The European Parliament should be granted observer status on the administrative board of the Joint Undertaking. Justification This amendment should be considered in conjunction with amendment to Annex, article 3(2), taking on board the position of the European Parliament of 6 September 2005 (see Barsi-Pataky report, A6-0212/2005 on the Galileo programme). Amendment 16 Recital 20 b (new) (20b) Applications for the accession to the Joint Undertaking of new members should be welcomed, subject to the provisions of Article 1(3) of the Annex. Justification This amendment should be considered in conjunction with amendments to Article 5a (new), Annex, Article 1(3a) (new) and Annex, Article 4(1. Amendment 17 Recital 22 a (new) (22a) The Commission should report to the European Parliament and the Council every three years on the application of this Regulation and, if appropriate, should propose amendment of it. Justification This amendment is to be considered in conjunction with amendment to Article 6a (new). Amendment 18 Article 1, paragraph 1 1. In order to carry out the development activities of the implementation phase of the project to modernise air traffic management in Europe, hereinafter referred to as the “SESAR project”, a Joint Undertaking is hereby established, known as