Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (1 June 2005) The Commission agrees that a speedy flow of information is of great importance in saving human lives, especially when disasters hit populated areas, as was the case during the tsunami disaster in December 2004. Cell broadcast (CB) service functionality, an existing and standardised feature that allows short text messages to be flashed on the screens of all mobile phones within the cell or cells that have been commanded so to do, could add significantly to providing early warning signals in cases of emergency. The granularity of GSM networks allows alert messages to be broadcast to particular geographic areas, in the preferred language of the user. Successful implementation of cell broadcast hinges around a proper implementation of the functionality in the mobile phone itself. There is need for a minimum standard to ensure that mobile handset behaviour is as uniform and simple to use as possible. Alert messages should get top priority, be recognised by the user as special messages of high importance directly related to public safety, override SMS messages or other mechanisms in the GSM standard, and stay on the display for a while regardless of the user setting. Ideally the CB function for emergency services should be activated ‘over-the-air’ in the case of an incident. The Commission recognises the potential of cell broadcast in early warning, and as indicated in its recent communication ‘Improving EU disaster and crisis response’ Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions — Reinforcing EU disaster and crisis response in third countries — COM(2005)153 final. , it is considering issuing a mandate to the European Standardisation Organisations to prepare and adopt harmonised standards covering the harmonised implementation and use of cell broadcast by public authorities for public safety purposes. It is not anticipated that this would involve any significant Research and Development (R & D) efforts. EU funding for the introduction and exploitation of cell broadcast is not being considered.