declared: "Nuclear energy is the only non-greenhouse-gas-emitting power source that can effectively replace fossil fuels and satisfy global demand". This amendment seeks to simplify the ideas contained in the rapporteur’s amendment 9. The second paragraph seeks to highlight the major efforts being made by the European Union to promote and develop renewable energy sources (action plan on biomass, promotion of biofuels, aid for photovoltaic and solar thermic energy production, co-generation, etc.), as compared to present use of nuclear power which, although it does not generate CO 2 , entails other types of problems not encountered with renewable energy sources . EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Introduction This explanatory statement analyzes the Commission proposal on the 7 th Euratom Framework Programme (Euratom FP7), taking into account the positions supported, by majority, by Members of the ITRE Committee. Basically the rapporteur believes that the European Parliament can agree with the Commission proposal for the structure of Euratom FP7, consisting of two specific programmes: · ‘Indirect’ actions , including Fusion Energy Research and Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection; · Nuclear activities of the Joint Research Centre , focusing on safe use of nuclear fission and, more widely, of nuclear technologies in industry and medicine. Moreover, the rapporteur appreciates the general effort to make all rules and procedures (from funding schemes to administrative and financial rules) simpler. However, more details should be given about the use of executive agencies to be set up under the 7 th Framework Programme, within both the European Community (EC) and the Euratom part. Besides the general comments already expressed on the agencies with reference to EC FP7, the rapporteur is aware of the fact that so far the management of important Euratom activities (i.e. fusion research) proved as efficient and was appreciated by the research community; the actual need for an agency appears therefore hard to justify. Budget The financial envelope proposed by the Commission seems adequate for all the fields of research. In particular for Fusion Energy Research, the rapporteur recognizes that the budget increase with respect to the 6 th Euratom Framework Programme (Euratom FP6) is justified by and coherent with the strong commitment of all the European Institutions, during the last three years, to support the European site (Cadarache, in France) in the international negotiations for the choice of the site for the construction of ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor). On a number of occasions in the recent past, the ITRE Committee has stated that the EU should firmly continue its reactor-oriented strategy and maintain its world-leading position in fusion energy research. To this purpose, ITRE has repeatedly encouraged the Commission and the Council to take any necessary decision (including, of course, appropriate funding of all relevant activities and programmes) to ensure that the ITER facility would be actually built in Europe. The full and effective exploitation of the ITER device, once it is built, will require a strong commitment by an adequate number of skilled European scientists and engineers as well as an high level knowledge of the Physics behind; thus the accompanying programme must be adequately supported, with