Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (1 September 2010) The flagship EU legislation for water is the Water Framework Directive (WFD) 2000/60/EC OJ L 327, 22.12.2000. , which sets out a protection of all surface waters and groundwaters, with an obligation to prevent any deterioration of status, and to achieve good status as a rule by 2015. The main tools to achieve the objectives of the WFD are the river basin management plans and the programmes of measures, which had to be adopted by December 2009 and sent to the Commission by March 2010. Malta has not yet reported the river basin management plans and programme of measures. The Commission launched infringement procedures in June 2010 against all Member States that have not yet elaborated their plans, including Malta. There are several obligations in the WFD that are directly related to the issues raised in the written question. Firstly, one of the key environmental objectives of the WFD is to achieve good quantitative status of all groundwater bodies as a rule by 2015. This means that measures should be taken to ensure a balance between abstraction and recharge. The long-term annual average rate of abstraction should not exceed the available groundwater resource. Protection of associated surface water bodies and terrestrial ecosystems should also be ensured. Secondly, as regards boreholes, WFD Article 11(3)e sets the obligation to establish controls over abstraction of surface and groundwaters including a register of water abstractions and a requirement of prior authorisation. Member States can exempt from these controls abstractions which have no significant impact on water status. Thirdly, WFD Article 9 sets the obligation to establish, by 2010, a water pricing policy that is based on the principles of cost recovery of water services and polluter pays. The cost recovery principle includes not only costs related to operation and maintenance of the services, which in the case of self-abstraction are covered by the owner, but also environmental and resource costs. One of the requirements of WFD Article 9 is that the water pricing policy is to provide adequate incentives to users to use water resources efficiently and thereby contribute to the environmental objectives of the directive. In general, this would involve metering and billing of the water used, unless it can be demonstrated that other schemes are equally effective in providing adequate incentives. Like with other Member States, upon receipt of the Maltese river basin management plans and programmes of measures, the Commission will assess their contents as regards fulfilment of the WFD obligations.