in their profession. 3. If a Member State considers that the set of criteria for professional qualifications which attest to a sufficient level of competence for the pursuit of putting into service, servicing, maintenance as well as the recovery and inspection activities as provided for in Articles 4 and 5, on the basis of which the competent authorities accredit the qualifications obtained in another Member State does not offer adequate guarantees with regard to professional qualifications, it shall inform the Commission accordingly. The Commission shall, if appropriate, take a decision establishing essential requirements and mutual recognition for the training and certification/accreditation programmes in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 16(2). 4 . Within two years of the entry into force of this Regulation, Member States shall notify the Commission of information on the training and certification /accreditation programmes referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. The Commission shall assess whether a programme is in conformity with paragraph 2 and if so approve it in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 15(2). Member States shall give recognition to the certificates issued in another Member State and shall not restrict the freedom to provide services or the freedom of establishment for reasons relating to the certification /accreditation issued in another Member State provided that the certification/accreditation programmes have been approved by the Commission. 5 . Within one year of the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 15 (2), shall determine the format of such notifications. Article 7 Reporting 1. By 31 March each year from the second calendar year following entry into force of this Regulation , the following data in respect of the preceding year shall be communicated to the Commission: (a) Each producer of fluorinated greenhouse gas who produces more than one tonne per annum shall communicate: – its total production of each fluorinated greenhouse gas ; – the quantities of each fluorinated greenhouse gas placed on the market in the Community, including estimates of quantities produced for a range of applications; – any quantities of each used fluorinated greenhouse gas imported for recycling, for reclamation or for destruction; – any quantities recycled, reclaimed or destroyed of each fluorinated greenhouse gas ; (b) Each importer of fluorinated greenhouse gases, including any producers who also import, shall communicate: – any quantities of each fluorinated greenhouse gas imported or supplied in the Community ; – the quantities of each fluorinated greenhouse gas placed on the market in the Community, including estimates of quantities imported for a range of applications; – any quantities of each used fluorinated greenhouse gas imported for recycling, for reclamation or for destruction; – an estimate of the expected emissions over the life-cycle of the substance; (c) Each exporter who exports more than one tonne per annum, including any producers who also export, shall communicate: – any quantities of each fluorinated greenhouse gas exported from the Community; – any quantities of each used fluorinated greenhouse gas exported for recycling, for reclamation or for destruction. 2. The