Answer given by Mr Šefčovič on behalf of the Commission (29 October 2009) The Commission welcomes the importance attached by the Honourable Members to the implementation of the European Qualifications Framework (EQF) for lifelong learning, which will make it easier to compare and understand the qualifications without harmonising them. The Commission is in a position to state that all Member States are actively working towards relating their national qualifications levels to the EQF, using as a guide a set of criteria and procedures agreed within the EQF Advisory Group, set up by the Commission upon request of Parliament and Council. To this date, two countries (Ireland and Malta) have already achieved this process and published a report that explains how their process met the criteria and how, as a result, their qualifications levels relate to the eight EQF levels. Based on the plans communicated by Member States, more than half of them will have completed their referencing by the end of 2010, according to schedule, while most others expect to be able to do so during 2011. All these countries should therefore be in a position to respect the 2012 deadline. Only a few countries are not yet sure about their timetable. The pace of implementation at national level largely depends on the extent to which their qualifications levels are already defined through learning outcomes. This is a preliminary condition for referencing them to the EQF levels, which are solely based on learning outcomes. Countries that already had established national qualifications frameworks based on learning outcomes, or which are acquainted with this approach, such as Ireland, Malta, the United Kingdom, France and Finland, are in a better position to relate them to the EQF. All Member States are now developing national qualifications frameworks based on learning outcomes, while at the same time referencing their qualifications levels to the EQF. To assist Member States in these challenging processes in a time of economic crisis, the Commission, as from 2010, will provide financial support, through the lifelong learning programme, to specific implementation activities of the EQF national coordination points. The Commission is pleased to note that learning outcomes are becoming the standard way to define qualifications throughout Europe and considers meeting the target date of 2012 realistic.