shall ensure the regular, independent, external evaluation of the programme. 3. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council: (a) an annual presentation on the implementation of the programme; (b) an interim evaluation report on the results obtained and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the implementation of this programme, including on the work carried out by the beneficiaries of operating grants referred to in Article 4(d), no later than 31 March 2011; (c) a Communication on the continuation of this programme no later than 30 August 2012; (d) an ex post evaluation report no later than 31 December 2014. Article 15a Publication of actions Each year the Commission shall publish the list of actions financed under this programme with a short description of each project. Article 16 Entry into force This Decision shall take effect on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall apply from 1 January 2007. Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ___________________ 26.1.2006 OPINION of the Committee on Culture and Education for the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on the proposal for a Council decision establishing for the period 2007-2013 the specific programme 'Fundamental rights and citizenship' as part of the General programme 'Fundamental Rights and Justice' ( COM(2005)0122 – C6‑0236/2005 – 2005/0038(CNS) ) Draftsman: Ignasi Guardans Cambó AMENDMENTS The Committee on Culture and Education calls on the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Article 2, paragraph 1, point (c a) (new) (ca) To encourage citizens to live together peacefully and to integrate. Justification It is important to make this appeal because healthy interactions between individuals in society are the basis for good relations and equal status. Amendment 2 Article 2, paragraph 2 The general objectives of the programme are complementary to the objectives pursued by the Fundamental Rights Agency built upon the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia. The general objectives of the programme could be implemented by the Fundamental Rights Agency built upon the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia. Justification In the interests of ensuring that the Union's efforts to promote and monitor fundamental rights are effective, the management of this kind of programme should be performed by the Fundamental Rights Agency, so as to avoid pointless and counter-productive duplication. Amendment 3 Article 3, point (a) (a) To promote the Charter of Fundamental Rights and to inform all persons of their rights including those derived from the EU citizenship in order to encourage European Union citizens to participate actively in the democratic life of the Union. (a) To inform all persons in the European Union of their rights and to encourage their exercise, particularly those derived from the EU citizenship in order to encourage European Union citizens to participate actively in the democratic life of the Union , within the framework of the Charter of