treated as professionals on request 1. Identification criteria Clients other than those mentioned in section I, including public sector bodies and private individual investors, may also be allowed to waive some of the protections afforded by the conduct of business rules. Investment firms should therefore be allowed to treat any of the above clients as professionals provided the relevant criteria and procedure mentioned below are fulfilled . Any such waiver of the protection afforded by the standard conduct of business regime shall be considered valid only if an adequate assessment of the expertise, experience and knowledge of the client, undertaken by the investment firm, gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature of the transactions or services envisaged, that the client is capable of making his own investment decisions and understanding the risks involved. In the case of small entities, the person subject to the above assessment should be the person authorised to carry out transactions on behalf of the entity. In the course of the above assessment, as a minimum, two of the following criteria should be satisfied: – The client has carried out transactions, in significant size, on the relevant market at an average frequency of 10 per quarter over the previous four quarters; – The size of the client's financial instrument portfolio, defined as including cash deposits and financial instruments exceeds 0,5 million Euro; – The client works or has worked in the financial sector for at least one year in a professional position, which requires knowledge of the transactions or services envisaged. 2. Procedure The clients defined above may waive the benefit of the detailed rules of conduct only where the following procedure is followed: – they must state in writing to the investment firm that they wish to be treated as a professional client, either generally or in respect of a particular investment service or transaction, or type of transaction or product; – the investment firm must give them a clear written warning of the protections and investor compensation rights they may lose; – they must state in writing, in a separate document from the contract, that they are aware of the consequences of losing such protections. Before deciding to accept any request for waiver, investment firms must be required to take all reasonable steps to ensure that the client requesting to be treated as a professional client meets the relevant requirements stated in Section II.1 . However, if clients have already been categorised as professionals under parameters and procedures similar to those above, it is not intended that their relationships with investment firms should be affected by any new rules adopted pursuant to this paper. Firms must implement appropriate written internal policies and procedures to categorise clients. Professional clients are responsible for keeping the firm informed about any change, which could affect their current categorisation. Should the investment firm become aware however that the client no longer fulfils the initial conditions, which made him eligible for a professional treatment, the investment firm must take appropriate action.