Joint answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-008725/11 , E-009425/11 (16 November 2011) The Agency for the Management of Operational cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (Frontex) is bound by Union law, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, and by international law, including the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28 July 1951, obligations related to access to international protection, in particular the principle of non-refoulement and fundamental rights; the amendments to the regulation establishing Frontex OJ L 349, 25.11.2004. (the regulation) approved by the European Parliament on 13 September 2011 and by the Council on 10 October 2011 and expected to enter into force before the end of the year (the amendments) confirm this state of affairs explicitly in Article 1 of the regulation. These amendments further strengthen Frontex' subordination to respect for human rights. A Consultative Forum on Fundamental Rights will be established, involving the European Asylum Support Office, the Fundamental Rights Agency, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and other relevant organisations. It will be consulted on the further development and implementation of the Fundamental Rights Strategy (Article 26a). To monitor respect for fundamental rights in all the activities of Frontex, an independent Fundamental Rights Officer will be appointed in the Agency, who will report directly to the Management Board and to the Consultative Forum (Article 26a). A Code of Conduct will be drawn up by the Agency and developed in cooperation with the Consultative Forum. The Code of Conduct will apply to all operations coordinated by the Agency. It shall lay down procedures to guarantee the principles of the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, applicable to all persons participating in the activities of the Agency (Article 2a). The amendments introduce an obligation on Frontex to ensure immediate incident reporting to the Management Board and to the national public authorities (Article 3a(h)). The amendments make explicit that the home Member State shall provide for appropriate disciplinary or other measures in case of violations of fundamental rights or international protection obligations in the course of a joint operation, a pilot project or a RABIT operation (Article 3(1a)). Finally, the amendments make explicit that the Executive Director of Frontex shall suspend or terminate, in whole or in part, joint operations and pilot projects if he considers that violations of fundamental rights or international protection obligations in the course of a joint operation, a pilot project or a RABIT operation are serious or likely to persist (Article 3(1a)). The Commission will rigorously verify the correct implementation of the amendments. The Commission is satisfied that Frontex takes its fundamental rights obligations seriously, and notes that it adopted a Fundamental Rights Strategy in March 2011, followed by the adoption of an Action Plan on 30 September 2011.The responsibilities of Frontex are to be distinguished from those of the Member State at whose external borders control and surveillance activities take place. Under Article 8(2)(b) of the regulation, Frontex