3 April 2001 JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure by – Gerardo Galeote Quecedo on behalf of the PPE-DE Group – Robert Goebbels on behalf of the PSE Group – Carles-Alfred Gasòliba i Böhm on behalf of the ELDR Group – Pierre Jonckheer, Gorka Knörr Borràs, Alain Lipietz and Claude Turmes on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group replacing the motions by the following groups: – ELDR ( B5‑0249/2001 ), – PPE-DE ( B5‑0250/2001 ), – Verts/ALE ( B5‑0255/2001 ), – PSE ( B5‑0256/2001 ), on the updating of certain legal aspects concerning intra-EU investment European Parliament resolution on the updating of certain legal aspects concerning intra-EU investment The European Parliament, – having regard to Articles 43, 56, 192(2), 222 and 295 of the EC Treaty, – having regard to the Commission Communication adopted in 1997 on certain legal aspects concerning intra-EU investment OJ C 220, 19.7.1997, p. 15. , – having regard to the Presidency Conclusions of the European Council adopted in Lisbon on 24 March 2000 and in Stockholm on 24 March 2001, A. whereas the content of the 1997 Communication cannot be seen as binding, since the Commission clearly overstretched its powers by not discussing this important item of 'soft law' with the Council and the European Parliament, B. whereas the Commission nevertheless initiated legal action against the Member States whose legislation was not in accordance with the interpretation of the Treaty contained in that Communication, C. whereas, thus far, the Commission has brought legal action before the European Court of Justice against Belgium, France, Italy, Spain, Portugal and the United Kingdom; whereas the infringement procedures against Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands are at a less advanced stage, D. whereas the European Court of Justice has not yet ruled on the substance of those cases, E. whereas, while it is indeed the responsibility of the Commission to bring actions against Member States before the European Court of Justice in infringement proceedings, it is not for the Commission to unilaterally set up the legal framework under which the actions are brought, F. whereas the adoption of the rules governing intra-EU investment should be left for Parliament and the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, G. whereas the Communication itself is no longer updated to recent economic developments, 1. Notes that Member States are opening up their markets to competition at differing speeds and that measures are needed to ensure that enterprises still benefiting from a monopoly situation on their national markets do not unduly benefit from that situation when operating on liberalised markets in other Member States, and that measures are needed to combat new monopoly situations in the internal market; 2. Is aware that it is the responsibility of the Commission to bring actions before the European Court of Justice against Member States which breach the Treaty, but points out that the Commission should not unilaterally set up the legal framework under which actions are brought; insists that rules governing intra-EU investment should be adopted by Parliament and the Council,