5 September 2001 JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 50(5) of the Rules of Procedure by – Bashir Khanbhai on behalf of the PPE-DE Group – Marie-Arlette Carlotti, Pasqualina Napoletano and Margrietus J. van den Berg on behalf of the PSE Group – Bob van den Bos on behalf of the ELDR Group – Didier Rod, Nelly Maes and Marie Anne Isler Béguin on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group – Jonas Sjöstedt and Lucio Manisco on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group – Mauro Nobilia on behalf of the UEN Group replacing the motions by the following groups: – Verts/ALE ( B5‑0545/2001 ), – ELDR ( B5‑0556/2001 ), – PPE-DE ( B5‑0565/2001 ), – UEN ( B5‑0579/2001 ), – GUE/NGL ( B5‑0585/2001 ), – PSE ( B5‑0594/2001 ), on the situation in Mauritania European Parliament resolution on the situation in Mauritania The European Parliament, – having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation in Mauritania, A. whereas the leader of the Mauritanian Popular Front (MPF), Mr Melainine, the former minister now an opponent of President Ould Taya, as well as two other members of the MPF, have been sentenced to five years' imprisonment on charges of 'conspiracy against the state', B. whereas the three men were sentenced to five years in prison on charges of conspiracy to commit acts of sabotage and terrorism, but serious doubts persist as to the fairness of the trial and the independence of the court; whereas two observers from the Moroccan Bar Association and the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues were prevented from attending the trial, C. whereas these imprisonments occur in the context of widespread repression of political opponents of the government, political activities of the opposition, the press and human rights organisations, D. whereas the decision was taken to dissolve the main opposition party, the Union of Democratic Forces/New Era, in October 2000, E. whereas legislative and municipal elections are scheduled for 19 October in the absence of an independent national electoral commission, F. whereas a monopoly in the public media is held by the government party, and free radio and television are prohibited, G. whereas Mauritania's National Assembly is currently dominated by the President's ruling party, which holds 78 of the parliament's 79 seats, H. whereas recent reports point to the continued existence of slavery, I. whereas the guilty verdict handed down against Mr Melainine is entirely without judicial foundation, J. whereas the decisions dissolving the opposition parties are an infringement of the democratic process, K. whereas the Constitution guarantees individual and collective freedoms, in particular freedom of association, assembly and expression, and the right of citizens freely to choose their government, L. whereas respect for human rights and democratic principles are essential elements for EU assistance, M. whereas dialogue between the government in power and the opposition is the best means of establishing rules of electoral transparency and guaranteeing free expression of the popular will, 1. Deplores the long-standing harassment of political opponents; 2. Calls for the immediate and unconditional release of Mr Melainine and the two other MPF members;