explain developments in foreign exchange markets. For example, foreign exchange markets may have been affected by the fact that, despite the improving outlook for global demand conditions, some uncertainty remained about the short-term economic outlook in some of the main economic areas. Heightened volatility, which is commonly associated with increased uncertainty regarding the appropriate course of exchange rates, could have an adverse effect on the economy. From the real economy perspective, exchange rate fluctuations complicate the prediction of future revenue growth for companies involved in foreign trade and could work as an impediment to investment. For financial markets, sharp movements in exchange rates can cause losses to leveraged positions that might easily spread to other asset classes. Finally, for central banks, exchange rate volatility complicates the assessment of medium-term inflationary perspectives. It is my belief that the ECB contributes most effectively to limiting volatility in foreign exchange markets by pursuing its stability-oriented monetary policy framework as outlined in its monetary policy strategy. Moreover, there is a broad consensus among central banks that exchange rates need particularly close monitoring in periods of heightened volatility. In such episodes, clear and appropriate communication to the public is a potent tool for smoothing market conditions. It is a widely held belief that the monetary policy strategy of a large and relatively closed economic area such as the euro area cannot embody an implicit or explicit target for the exchange rate, since this would clash with the maintenance of domestic price stability. This does not mean that the euro exchange rate should not play any role in the ECB’s strategy. On the contrary, with a view to the potential impact of exchange rate developments on future price developments, exchange-rate dynamics must be closely monitored. However, I fully share the view that monetary policy should not react to a single privileged indicator or a few selected indicators in a mechanistic manner. Any monetary policy decision depends on the overall economic situation and needs to be based on a comprehensive analysis by the Governing Council of all relevant indicators, factors and risks to price stability. I therefore believe that excess volatility in the exchange rate should be contained by addressing its underlying causes and the structural shocks that may have caused it. Overall, I believe that a monetary policy that avoids erratic reactions and conveys a steady sense of direction to the markets is the best antidote to the development of excessive volatility in all financial markets, including the exchange rate market. Regarding the issue of the US twin deficits, my personal view is the following. Generally speaking, any economy with insufficient domestic saving, either public or private, has to resort to international capital to finance the gap. Moreover an excess of the overall domestic demand on output is reflected in a current account deficit. In this context the size of the economy matters. For small sized economies the share of world savings received will tend to be small. However, for a large economy like the US the international capital inflows represent a high proportion of the world savings