for the institution concerned to eliminate the instance of maladministration, or (b) that the instance of maladministration has general implications. 8.2 The Ombudsman sends a copy of his report and draft recommendations to the institution concerned and to the complainant. 8.3 The institution concerned sends the Ombudsman a detailed opinion within three months. The detailed opinion could consist of acceptance of the Ombudsman's decision and a description of the measures taken to implement the draft recommendations. 8.4 If the Ombudsman does not consider that the detailed opinion is satisfactory he may draw up a special report to the European Parliament in relation to the instance of maladministration. The report may contain recommendations. The Ombudsman sends a copy of the report to the institution concerned and to the complainant. Article 9 Own-initiative inquiries 9.1 The Ombudsman may decide to undertake inquiries on his own initiative. 9.2 The Ombudsman's powers of investigation when conducting own initiative inquiries are the same as in inquiries instituted following a complaint. 9.3 The procedures followed in inquiries instituted following a complaint also apply, by analogy, to own initiative inquiries. Article 10 Points of procedure 10.1 If the complainant so requests, the Ombudsman classifies a complaint as confidential. If he considers that it is necessary to protect the interests of the complainant or of a third party, the Ombudsman may classify a complaint as confidential on his own initiative. 10.2 If he considers it appropriate to do so, the Ombudsman may take steps to ensure that a complaint is dealt with as a matter of priority. 10.3 If legal proceedings are instituted in relation to matters under investigation by the Ombudsman, he closes the case. The outcome of any inquiries he has carried out up to that point is filed without further action. 10.4 The Ombudsman informs the relevant national authorities and if appropriate, a Community institution or body of such criminal law matters as may come to his notice in the course of an inquiry. The Ombudsman may also inform a Community institution or body of facts which, in his view, could justify disciplinary proceedings. Article 11 Reports to the European Parliament 11.1 The Ombudsman submits an annual report to the European Parliament on his activities as a whole, including the outcome of his inquiries. 11.2 As well as special reports made under Article 8.4. above, the Ombudsman may make such other special reports to the European Parliament as he thinks appropriate to fulfil his responsibilities under the Treaties and the Statute. 11. The annual and special reports of the Ombudsman may contain such recommendations as he thinks appropriate to fulfil his responsibilities under the Treaties and the Statute. Article 12 Cooperation with ombudsmen and similar bodies in Member States The Ombudsman may work in conjunction with ombudsmen and similar bodies in the Member States with a view to enhancing the effectiveness both of his own inquiries and of those carried out by ombudsmen and similar bodies in the Member States and of making more effective provision for safeguarding rights and interests under European Union and European Community