Answer given by Mrs Grybauskaitė on behalf of the Commission (26 January 2007) 1. The Honourable Member is referred to the replies to previous questions on this subject for the breakdown by year of payments on contracts that the Commission has had with Nomisma as prime contractor. Until 2005, there was no central contract database as part of the accounting system, so the research to answer the latest question has been conducted by the services responsible for the payments identified and listed in the earlier answers. The analysis below provides information on the contacts awarded each year from 1994 to 2006 and then provides the figure for payments in that or subsequent years The Honourable Member is reminded that the previous answers gave payments in the year in which those payments were made and then provided the number of contracts associated with those payments, whether the contract was signed in the year of the payment or earlier. So the data are not comparable. . The value of the contract is cited in terms of the euro value of the year when the contract was signed. Over the period, 82 contracts were issued for a total amount of EUR 12 630 195 and payments on those contracts of EUR 11 682 070. The year with the largest amount contracted was in 1996, and that the largest number of contracts was issued in 1999, almost all under the Tacis programme, though some were tendered for in 1998. (a) and (b) Table 1 in Annex (which is sent directly to the Honourable Member and the Parliament's Secretariat) lists the 80 primary contracts between the Commission and Nomisma in each of the years 1994 to 2006 and the 2 contracts where Nomisma was a member of a consortium but not the leading member. The information provided is as full as is available. It has proved difficult to find information in earlier years on contracts where Nomisma was a member of a consortium but not the leader. (c) Most of the contracts were concluded after restricted calls for tenders. Ordinarily, at least five candidates are invited to submit an offer for such restricted procedures from the organisations selected after publication of a call for expressions of interest or a specific contract notice. Research grants were normally awarded after publication of calls for research proposals open to large numbers of organisations. 2. The Commission has nothing further to add to the replies already given to the Honourable Member's Written Questions P‑0848/06 and P‑3771/06 .