include Official Development Assistance grants and/or loans), and being creative in developing their own portfolio of financed projects. In this respect, the EU‑Africa Partnership for Infrastructure, and the Infrastructure Trust Fund as one of its instruments, can be mentioned. 4. Trilateral cooperation is embedded in the EU's approach to working openly within the international community for multilateral solutions. At this stage, trilateral cooperation is not envisaged as concerning co-financing but dialogue and cooperation in the four sectors proposed for cooperation with Africa and China, so it does not directly impact on European companies' chances to compete for projects. The approach proposed by this communication is a pragmatic and gradual one that proposes to begin a focused dialogue and pilot projects in these sectors. 5. The background for this question has been provided through informal consultation with African experts and officials. Through this question, the Commission is trying to identify the advantages of each participant in each sector in order to develop future strategies. 6. In general terms, the Commission is in favour of free and open markets, based on rules and transparency and fair competition. As indicated above, the issue of works contractors other than ACP and EU firms, does not pose itself in the EDF procurement procedures, as a result of the outcome of the negotiations with the ACP States reflected in the current Cotonou Partnership Agreement. In the other external aid instruments Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 — Regulation (EC) No 1638/2006 — Regulation (EC) No 1889/2006 — Regulation (EC) No 1717/2006 — Regulation (Euratom) No 300/2007. , which are not the result of such negotiations with the Beneficiary States, the EU's commitments to untying of aid are fully reflected. Under the EC's external aid procurement rules for works contracts, the offer which is submitted by the tenderer who fulfils the selection criteria, which complies with the specifications of the invitation to tender and which has the lowest price will be the wining tender. The Commission ensure that there is a fair competition in the sense that firms are competing on an equal level. For instance, the Commission already uses in its tendering procedures clauses concerning the employment of staff from ACP countries, quality of performance, respect for the environment, social aspects etc., and closely examines those features during the verification of the technical and professional capacities of the tenderer. Following the EU‑Africa Business Forum, the Commission started a dialogue with the European International Contractors (EIC) on good practices for tendering, which could lead in the future to the further strengthening of the abovementioned aspects. 7. The health and education sectors have been mentioned in both the public and the informal consultation as potential sectors for starting trilateral cooperation. The priority sectors identified, at this stage, by the African and Chinese partners concern peace and security, infrastructure, environment and sustainable management of natural ressources and food security and agricultural production.