dossier to the other Member States, the Authority and the Commission. Article 11 Access to the summary dossier The Authority shall without delay make the summary dossier referred to in Article 9 (1) available to the public, excluding any information which is confidential under Article 66. Article 12 Draft assessment report 1. The rapporteur Member State may start the evaluation of test and study reports as soon as they are submitted by the applicant, including before the date of the notification provided for in the first subparagraph of Article 10(3). Within twelve months of the date of the notification║, the rapporteur Member State shall prepare and submit to the Authority a report (hereafter called "draft assessment report") assessing whether the active substance can be expected to meet the requirements of Article 4. Where the Member State needs additional information, it shall set a reasonable time period for the applicant to supply it along with any claims for data protection pursuant to Article 62 . In that case, the twelve-month period shall be extended by the additional time period granted by the Member State. It shall inform the Commission and the Authority. When supplying additional information, the applicant shall at the same time submit any claims for data protection pursuant to Article 62. Article 8(5) shall apply. The Member State may consult the Authority. 2. The format of the draft assessment report shall be established in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 83 (2). Article 13 Conclusion by the Authority 1. The Authority shall circulate the draft assessment report received from the rapporteur Member State to the applicant, the other Member States and the Commission. It shall make it available to the public, after giving the applicant two weeks to request, pursuant to Article 66 , that certain parts of the draft assessment report be kept confidential. The Authority shall allow a period of sixty days for the submission of written comments. Where appropriate, the Authority shall organise a consultation of experts, including experts from the rapporteur Member State. 2. The Authority shall adopt a conclusion on whether the active substance can be expected to meet the requirements of Article 4 within ninety days of the end of the period provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article , with due justification, including a reference to the consideration of any public comments, and communicate it to the applicant, the Member States and the Commission. The conclusion shall be published by the Authority within one week after its adoption. Where ▐the Authority needs additional consultations with experts as provided for in paragraph 1, it shall set a time period for concluding the consultations. In that case, the ninety-day period shall be extended by the additional period granted by the Authority. It shall inform the Commission and the Member States . 3. Where the Authority needs additional information, it shall set a time period for the applicant to supply it. In that case, the ninety-day period provided for in paragraph 2 shall be extended by the additional period granted by the Authority