language and format that is clear and accessible to all citizens; (c) there is a right to continuity of care, notably by means of the forwarding of relevant medical data concerning the patient with due respect to the provisions of point (g) of paragraph 1 and pursuant to Article 15 and patients who have received treatment are entitled to a written or electronic record of such treatment and of any medical advice for the continuity of their care; (d) in the event of complications resulting from healthcare provided abroad or if a particular medical follow-up proves necessary, the Member State of affiliation guarantees to provide healthcare equivalent to that received on its territory; (e) they immediately and proactively inform each other about health providers or health professionals when regulatory action is taken against their registration or their right to provide services. 4. The Commission shall, in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 22(2), adopt measures necessary for achieving a common security level of health data at national level, taking into account existing technical standards in this field . ▌ 5 . In so far as it is necessary to facilitate the provision of cross-border healthcare and taking as a basis a high level of protection of health, the Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, may develop guidelines to facilitate the implementation of paragraph 1. 6. For the purposes of this Article, Member States shall establish a transparent mechanism for the calculation of costs that are to be charged for the healthcare provided. That calculation mechanism shall be based on objective, non-discriminatory criteria known in advance and it shall be applied at the relevant administrative level in cases where the Member State of treatment has a decentralised healthcare system. 7. In view of the great importance, particularly to patients, of safeguarding the quality and safety of cross-border care, the organisations involved in drawing up standards and guidelines as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 5 shall at the minimum include patients' organisations (particularly those of a cross-border nature). Chapter III CROSS-BORDER healthcare Article 6 Responsibilities of authorities of the Member State of affiliation 1. Subject to the provisions of this Directive, in particular Articles 7, 8 and 9, the Member State of affiliation shall ensure that insured persons travelling to another Member State with the purpose of receiving healthcare there or seeking to receive healthcare provided in another Member State, will not be prevented from receiving healthcare provided in another Member State where the treatment in question is among the benefits provided for by the legislation, administrative regulations, guidelines and codes of conduct of the medical professions, of the Member State of affiliation to which the insured person is entitled. Without prejudice to Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 and, as from its date of application, Regulation (EC) No 883/2004, the Member State of affiliation shall reimburse the costs to the Member State of treatment or the insured person║ which would have been paid for by its statutory social security system had equally effective healthcare been provided in its territory. If