their films further down the line, for example the introduction of an ‘interconnection’ system: an arrangement whereby automatic support funds operated by Member States would be linked in order to give producers access to funds from other Member States as well. The EU could then pay compensation. Such interconnection would increase the sources of financing, which is by no means insignificant in view of the gulf between American and European film budgets, and would make producers more aware of their films’ market potential abroad. Another worthwhile measure at Member State level is the introduction of tax incentives, which can promote productivity and employment. These already exist in seven EU countries. Television broadcasters play a crucial part in the production and financing of European films. When the ‘Television Without Frontiers’ Directive is next revised, therefore, it could for example include a binding requirement to invest a certain amount in the European film industry. Marketing and promotion Marketing of European films is often neglected. Yet it is nearly always of relevance to consider what audience a film is aimed at from the outset of a project and at all subsequent stages. It is sometimes maintained that a good film will always find an audience. But the low profile of European films is an enormous handicap. Hollywood spends more than 30% of its budget on promotion, as against 3-6% for European films. This is indicative not only of a difference of mentality but also of a structural financial problem. MEDIA Plus helps distributors and sales agents to improve their promotional work. Promotion is very expensive and calls for a considered approach, geared to the type of film and the niche to which it aspires. There is little point, therefore, in simply trying to copy the American promotion machine, but we can learn much from it. As a complement to MEDIA Plus, a European Promotion Fund could bring a selection of European films to the attention of a large international audience. These could lead the way in increasing public appreciation of European films. When revising the directive on ‘Television Without Frontiers’, consideration could also be given to introducing promotion requirements. Promoting films on TV is expensive but very efficient. If European TV broadcasters were to devote a marginal proportion of their transmission time to promoting European films, this could be a major step in the right direction. TV broadcasters can also play an active role in building up a European star system. Examples amply demonstrate that films with actors of international renown cross national borders more readily. The annual European Film Awards also constitute worthwhile promotion, although this European counterpart to the Oscars still needs to become a bigger event. Consideration might also be given to synergies between the aforementioned Promotion Fund and the European Film Academy. Distribution and exploitation Releasing a film generally entails major and rapid investment, which as a rule cannot be recouped at the box office. In view of the numerous ways in which films are exploited (cinemas, video, DVD, unrestricted-access television, pay television, pay per view, video on demand, internet, etc.),