on a long-term basis (including small and medium-sized businesses and small investors) in any implementing measures, – the need to foster the international competitiveness of EU financial markets without prejudice to a much-needed extension of international cooperation, – the need to achieve a level playing field for all market participants by establishing EU-wide regulations every time it is appropriate, – the need to respect differences in national markets where these do not unduly impinge on the cohesion of the single market, – the need to ensure coherence with other Community legislation in this area, as imbalances in information and a lack of transparency may jeopardise the operation of the markets and above all harm consumers and small investors. ( 20 ) Certain existing provisions for technical amendments to Directive 2000/12/EC need to be brought into line with Decision 1999/468/EC. ( 21 ) In order to ensure institutional and legal consistency with the approach taken in other Community sectors, Commission Decision 2004/10/EC of 5 November 2003 OJ L 3, 7.1.2004, p. 36. established the European Banking Committee in an advisory capacity to advise the Commission as regards the development of Community banking legislation. ( 22 ) References to the advisory functions of the BAC in Directive 2000/12/EC should therefore be deleted. ( 23 ) As regards the monitoring of observation ratios for the solvency and liquidity of credit institutions, the competencies of the BAC are no longer needed in view of the harmonisation of capital adequacy rules and of developments in the techniques used by credit institutions to measure and manage their liquidity risk. ( 24 ) Moreover, the substantial progress made in cooperation and exchange of information between supervisory authorities, in particular through Memoranda of Understanding, has rendered superfluous the regular monitoring by the Commission of certain individual supervisory decisions and their systematic reporting to the BAC. ( 25 ) The establishment of the European Banking Committee should not rule out other forms of cooperation between the different authorities involved in the regulation and supervision of credit institutions, in particular within the Committee of European Banking Supervisors established by Commission Decision 2004/5/EC of 5 November 2003 OJ L 3, 7.1.2004, p. 28. . ( 26 ) The Insurance Committee (IC) set up under Directive 91/675/EEC is to assist the Commission, in the exercise of the implementing powers granted by Directives adopted in the field of insurance, and in particular to make the technical adaptations necessary to take account of developments in the insurance sector; such measures being taken in accordance with the "comitology" procedure laid down in Decision 1999/468/EC. ( 27 ) Under Directive 91/675/EEC, the IC is also to examine any question relating to the application of Community provisions concerning the insurance sector and, in particular, to advise the Commission on proposals for legislation which the Commission intends to present to the European Parliament and to the Council. ( 28 ) In order to build an internal market where policyholders and beneficiaries are properly protected, insurance and occupational pensions undertakings operating in the internal market under the principles of freedom of