a controversial issue. The committee urges vigilance over the socio-economic effects of the plan and therefore wants Member States to report on these a year after it comes into effect. Should the need arise, the Commission should provide compensation to mitigate the industry's losses. Enforcing the CFP - fishermen must be brought on board Ilda FIGUEIREDO (EUL/NGL, P) Report on the Commission communication 'Towards uniform and effective implementation of the common fisheries policy' ( COM(2003) 130 - 2003/2104(INI)) Doc.: A5-0331/2003 Procedure : Own-initiative report Debate : 23.10.2003 As part of the reform of the common fisheries policy, the Commission has drawn up a policy paper containing an Action Plan for the period 2003-2005 with the aim of ensuring that fishing is properly monitored at every stage by a single monitoring procedure. The Commission is also proposing to set up a Joint Inspection Structure at Community level and a Community Fisheries Control Agency to coordinate the national inspection and surveillance services. Reporting for the Fisheries Committee, Ilda FIGUEIREDO (EUL/NGL, P) welcomes the Commission's proposed Action Plan but emphasises the need for real participation by all concerned in all stages of the common fisheries policy, in such a way as to take account of its inherent regional dimension and to reflect the specific characteristics of fisheries management. MEPs point out that fishermen are more likely to accept, and to comply with, the rules governing fisheries if they are involved at all levels of the decision-making process. In its non-binding resolution, the committee supports the measures aimed at harmonising processes and objectives but stresses that it is important not to lose sight of objective regional differences or undermine the specific role of individual Member States, who are ultimately responsible for monitoring fisheries activities. MEPs also support the proposal to introduce a code of conduct for inspection, on the basis of dialogue with the sector and the national authorities. While welcoming the Commission's intention to put forward a proposal on a Joint Inspection Structure and a Community Fisheries Control Agency, the committee wants a feasibility study to be carried out beforehand, including a comparative cost-benefit analysis, and calls on the Commission to explore alternative models for cooperation at Community level in the field of monitoring and implementation. Lastly, the report urges the Commission to take an active part in monitoring and in funding the monitoring tasks carried out in international waters administered by the international fisheries organisations, in order to coordinate fisheries monitoring by the EU in these fishing grounds and make it more efficient. Multi-annual guidance programmes for fishing fleets a failure Patricia McKENNA (Greens/EFA, Dublin) Report on the annual report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the results of the multi-annual guidance programmes for the fishing fleets at the end of 2001 and on the report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the intermediate results of the multi-annual guidance programmes for the fishing fleets at 30 June 2002 ( COM(2002) 446 - COM(2002) 483 - 2002/2262(INI)) Doc.: A5-0332/2003 Procedure : Own-initiative report Debate :