to help them grow strong in their Catholic faith and for vocational discernment.", " The major seminary affiliated with SJV, the Saint Paul Seminary School of Divinity, is on the other side of the campus of the University of St. Thomas." ] ], [ "St. Edward Seminary", [ "Saint Edward Seminary (sometimes \"Saint Edward's Seminary\") was an institution for developing Catholic priests in the US state of Washington.", " Dedicated to Saint Edward the Confessor and located in the city of Kenmore, it operated for 46 years before closing in 1976.", " The seminary and most of its grounds now constitute Saint Edward State Park.", " The seminary was located on a 366 acre property purchased in the late 1920s.", " Building plans were scaled back in 1929 due to the Great Depression.", " In 1931, the seminary opened as a minor seminary; it became a major (college level) seminary in 1935.", " In 1958, Saint Thomas the Apostle Seminary opened as a major seminary on 50 acres of the site and St. Edward continued as a minor seminary.", " The Catholic Archdiocese of Seattle closed St. Edward in 1976 and sold it to the State of Washington in 1977.", " It became Saint Edward State Park in 1978.", " After St. Thomas closed, Bastyr University leased and later bought that campus." ] ], [ "St. John's Regional Medical Center (California)", [ "St. John's Regional Medical Center is a hospital located in Oxnard, California in the United States, and is operated by Dignity Health, along with its sister hospital, St. John's Pleasant Valley Hospital in Camarillo, California.", " The hospital was founded in 1912.", " St. John's Regional Medical Center and St. John's Pleasant Valley Hospital offer comprehensive medical services, including 24-hour emergency medical and surgical services and care, cancer and oncology care and support, cardiovascular care, community outreach and screenings, diagnostic imaging services, laboratory services, maternity and women's services, neonatal intensive care, palliative care, patient and family education, rehabilitation services, spine and orthopedic care, weight loss surgery, wound healing and oxygen therapy, and more.", " Together, St. John's Regional Medical Center and St. John's Pleasant Valley Hospital represent the largest acute-care health organization in Ventura County.", " St. John's hospitals serve all of Ventura County and beyond, including the cities of Camarillo, Moorpark, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Ventura, and Somis." ] ], [ "Camarillo, California", [ "Camarillo ( ) is a city in Ventura County in the U.S. state of California.", " The population was 65,201 at the 2010 census, up from 57,084 at the 2000 census.", " The Ventura Freeway (U.S. Route 101) is the city's primary thoroughfare.", " Camarillo is named for Adolfo and Juan Camarillo, two of the few \"Californios\" (pre-1848 California natives of Hispanic ancestry) to preserve the city's heritage after the arrival of Anglo settlers.", " The railroad coast route came through in 1898 and built a station here.", " Adolfo Camarillo eventually employed 700 workers growing mainly lima beans.", " Walnuts and citrus were also grown on the ranch.", " Adolfo bred Camarillo White Horses in