as well as men; calls urgently for concrete steps to be taken in this direction and recommends the adoption of a UfM project on women's entrepreneurship and enhancement of their involvement in public life; recalls its consistent position that respect for traditions and customs must not be a pretext for the infringement of women’s fundamental rights; 42. Calls on the Council, the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, the Commission and the newly-established European External Action Service to take the necessary steps to ensure coherent EU participation in the UfM, and to involve Parliament in framing EU policy; 43. Welcomes the recent accession to the UfM of countries of the Western Balkans, which are applicants for accession to the EU; 44. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the President of the Council of the European Union, the President of the Commission, the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign and Security Policy, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the co-presidency, the Secretary General of the UfM, and the governments and parliaments of the partner states. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT I/ Background Over the last two decades the European Union has put a great deal of energy into its eastward expansion. It is to be congratulated on having completed the historic task of reunifying the continent, but – in an era in which the world’s geopolitical and geo-economic balances are shifting, with the notable emergence of Asia – it is now time for the Union to rethink its foreign policy priorities and rediscover its southern neighbours. It is crucial for the European Parliament to monitor developments in relation to the latest regional initiative, the Union for the Mediterranean (UfM), as closely as possible . Accordingly, this report, which follows on from the previous report adopted in February 2009, sets out to continue the process of political reflection in the light of the EU’s new institutional environment and the uncertainties still hanging over the UfM in terms of both operational aspects and funding. Following a controversial start and two successive years of relative deadlock, the UfM’s second summit of heads of state and government will take place in Barcelona in June 2010. The European Parliament is keen to help ensure the outright success of this summit, which will shape the UfM ’ s future. II/ Guiding principles In the run-up to the Barcelona summit, our reflections on the UfM are structured around four guiding principles. a. Building on the achievements of the Barcelona Process Although the concept of the UfM emerged outside the EU framework, the final decision that it should follow on directly from the Barcelona Process, despite the latter ’ s weaknesses, was the right one European Council conclusions of 13 and 14 March 2008. . Notwithstanding the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership’s disappointing track record, particularly at multilateral and sub-regional level, this cooperation structure was familiar to our partners, unlike the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) launched in 2004. Although the Barcelona Process was politically deadlocked, it was active at a technical