payments with any rated entity, related third party or any person directly or indirectly linked to the rated entity by control. Amendment 55 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. A credit rating agency shall ensure that employees who are directly involved in the credit rating process meet the requirements set out in Section C of Annex I. 3. A credit rating agency shall ensure that analysts and other employees who are directly involved in the credit rating process meet the requirements set out in Section C of Annex I. Amendment 56 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. A credit rating agency shall ensure that analysts and persons approving credit ratings shall not be involved in providing the credit rating services to the same rated entity or its related third parties for a period exceeding four years. For that purpose it shall establish a rotation mechanism with regard to those analysts and persons . 4. A credit rating agency shall ensure that analysts that are in direct contact with issuers shall be involved in providing the credit rating services to the same rated entity, to its related third parties or to entities under common ownership, for a period not exceeding five years. For that purpose it shall establish a rotation mechanism with regards to those analysts. The period after which the analysts and persons approving credit ratings may be involved in providing the credit rating services to the rated entity or related third parties referred to in the first subparagraph may not be shorter than two years. The period after which those analysts may be in direct contact again to provide for credit rating services with the rated entity or related third parties referred to in the first subparagraph shall be no shorter than two years. Any rotation of analysts sh all be undertaken in phase s on the basis of individual rating analysts rather than a complete team. Amendment 57 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6. Compensation and performance evaluation of analysts and persons approving the credit ratings shall not be contingent on the amount of revenue that the credit rating agency derives from the rated entities or related third parties to which the analyst or persons approving the credit ratings provide services. 6. Compensation and performance evaluation of lead analysts making the credit ratings shall not be contingent on the amount of revenue that the credit rating agency derives from the rated entities or related third parties to which the lead analysts making the credit ratings provide services. Justification The lead analyst is the key contact person with the rated entity. It is not necessary and would be unduly disruptive to rotate all his back-up team in the same way. Amendment 58 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. A credit rating agency shall disclose to the public the methodologies, models and