WRITTEN QUESTION E-1016/10 by Willy Meyer (GUE/NGL) to the Council (26 February 2010) Subject: Murder and torture of members of the Frente Nacional de Resistencia in Honduras The people of Honduras find themselves victims of repressive violence as a result of last June’s coup d’état. Reports continue to pour in concerning the way that members of the Frente Nacional de Resistencia — the National Front of Resistance to the coup — are being murdered, tortured, subjected to administrative persecution and ‘disappeared’ by the police and paramilitary elements. We are talking about a policy of repression whose sole purpose is to terrorise and paralyse the Honduran resistance, which is fighting for the restoration of democratic and constitutional legality in Honduras. On Monday 15 February, Julio Fúnez Benítez, a member of the National Aqueducts And Drains Service Workers’ Trade Union, was gunned down at his front door; he had taken part in the I Assembly of the Frente Nactional de Resistencia Popular, held in Siguatepeque. On 12 February, Hernán Reyes, another member of the FNRP, was kidnapped by paramilitaries who tortured him in order to extract information about the resistance, with the result that he almost lost an eye. The home of Porfirio Ponce, of the Drinks Industry Workers’ Union, was raided and wrecked by individuals who claimed to be policemen. Last week, Edgar Martínez, an FNRP militant, was arrested and tortured, along with his wife and members of his family, for two days. The Council recently voiced its wish to resume negotiations on the Association Agreement with Central America as soon as possible; these negotiations had been suspended following the coup. Catherine Ashton herself, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said, on the occasion of Porfirio Lobo’s investiture, following elections which have not been recognised by most of the international community, that ‘the European Union voices the hope that this Presidential mandate will mark the beginning of a new era and the normalisation of Honduras’ relations with the EU and the international community'. In view of the foregoing, how does the Council assess the incidents that have been taking place? Given that the European Union deems human rights to be a key element in its foreign policy, does the Council think that the unremitting repression to which the civilian population of Honduras is being subjected is compatible with resuming negotiations on the Association Agreement of the countries of Central America?