15.6.2007. foresees, for medicinal products authorised by the Community, financial penalties in case of infringements of various obligations, including failure to comply with clinical trials requirements. Sites where clinical trials are conducted — including in third countries — can be inspected by the competent authorities of Member States. The EMEA has put in place a system of inspections of Good Clinical Practice in third countries since 2006 which has led to an increasing number of inspections in those countries and which is being further extended in 2008. The inspections include sites in Latin America, Africa and Asia. The conduct of the trials in developing countries and the presence of vulnerable populations are two key factors in selecting sites and studies for inspections. The inspection procedure has, among its priorities, the assessment of informed consent process and confirmation of ethics committee review. 3. The Commission is already pursuing a number of initiatives to help third countries improve their supervision of clinical trials and compliance with ethical guidelines. First, the Commission has considerably strengthened its bilateral relations with key third countries (e.g. India) and has proposed concrete action, such as the establishment of direct contact points for exchange of information on clinical trials between these countries and the EU. A specific procedure to check compliance with the ethical principles as provided for by the Helsinki Declaration has also been proposed. Secondly, the Commission is actively participating in a field-testing exercise, under the supervision of the World Health Organisation (WHO). The EMEA and EU GCP (Good Clinical Practice) inspectors have also organised specific training for EU inspectors on inspection in developing countries, including contributions from WHO, and will continue to work with WHO and other parties in order to contribute to increasing both EU expertise and that of regulators in developing countries in relation to GCP inspection. The Commission is also active in the working groups on ethics guidelines (research ethics) in developing countries with relevant third parties in particular the Council of Europe (Bioethics division), Unesco and the United Nations Inter-Agencies Committee in Bioethics. Thirdly, the Commission and the EMEA have put in place the necessary procedures to implement Article 58 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency, OJ L 136, 30.4.2004. , which enables the EMEA to assist scientifically third countries in the evaluation of medicines to be marketed exclusively outside the EU. Several products against life-threatening diseases have been evaluated under this procedure already. In addition, the Commission has asked the European Group on Ethics of Science and new Technologies (EGE) to issue an Opinion on the ethical aspects of clinical research in developing countries http://ec.europa.eu/european_group_ethics/docs/avis17_en.pdf . The Commission has also financed research projects on capacity building on ethical questions in developing countries (Africa — NEBRA, EDCTP; Latin America — Eulabor, China –BIONET etc.), and has organised conferences in this area (e.g. Globalisation, epidemics http://ec.europa.eu/research/science-society/index.cfm?fuseaction=public.topic&id=321 ). Fourthly,