employment has grown significantly since 1990 and the jobs lost as a result of the present economic crisis were primarily those in the atypical sector; whereas new types of contract with one or more of the following characteristics are classified as ’atypical’ employment: part-time work, casual work, temporary work, work under fixed-term contracts, home working and teleworking, part-time employment of 20 hours or less per week, B. whereas the need for flexible employment has been underlined on several occasions, C. whereas globalisation and rapid technological developments are causing far-reaching economic restructuring, giving rise to changes in employment relationships and in the content of workers’ tasks, along with successive waves of new one-person independent businesses across all sectors and age-groups, creating the need for a redefinition of employment relationships, with the aim of avoiding distortions (such as the phenomenon of ’false’ self-employed persons), D. having regard to the financial and economic crisis, which has turned into a serious employment crisis with a huge loss of jobs and has led to unstable labour markets and rising poverty and social exclusion, in particular for already vulnerable individuals and disadvantaged groups, E. whereas the number of people living in in-work poverty is increasing, having reached 8 % of the European workforce, and the proportion of low-wage earners is currently about 17 %, F. whereas a substantial and complementary EU approach, focusing strongly on effective governance and a mutually supportive mix of policy measures in the fields of economic, environmental, employment and social policies and entrepreneurship, should be developed, in keeping with the principles of the European Employment Strategy (EES), the purpose of which is to impel Member States to pursue common objectives based on the four principles of employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities, G. whereas the unemployment rate in the EU 27 has risen to 10 % (2009) and unemployment is unlikely to peak before the first half of 2011, H. whereas a breakdown of employment changes by educational level shows that the number of low-skilled persons in employment has decreased in recent years, I. whereas on average every year between one-fifth and one-quarter of all European workers change job, J. whereas the transition rate between unemployment and employment is high, with a third of the unemployed and 10 % of the inactive population finding jobs within one year, but whereas a large number of workers, especially those in atypical employment, lose their jobs without finding new ones, K. whereas in the EU 27 45 % of all periods of unemployment last longer than one year, compared with about 10 % in the USA, L. whereas labour turnover is higher among women than men (five percentage points difference) and among younger workers (aged under 24), and decreases with rising levels of education, showing that change is more often imposed than chosen and is linked to short-term, insecure contracts and that young people often fail to find employment commensurate with their academic qualifications, M. whereas it is estimated that one in six workers has care responsibilities for an older or dependent relative or friend, N. whereas