shall provide its opinion or the results of its work to the Commission within 3 months of the request. 3. Where the Commission concludes that the criteria referred to in Article 4 are no longer satisfied, or the further information required in accordance with point (f) of Article 7 has not been provided, a Regulation to withdraw or amend the approval shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4). Article 21 (2) shall apply. 4. Where the Commission concludes that the objectives of reducing pollution from priority substances established in accordance with Article 4(1)(a)(iv) and (b)(i) and Article 7(2) and (3) of Directive 2000/60/EC cannot be met, a Regulation to withdraw or amend the approval shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4) of this Regulation. Subsection 4 Derogations Article 23 Low risk active substances 1. By way of derogation from Article 6, an active substance complying with the criteria provided for in Article 4 shall be approved for a period not exceeding 15 years, where it ▐will have no adverse effect on human and animal health and the environment, as provided for in Article 50 (1). This derogation shall not apply to any active substance classified in accordance with Directive 67/548/EEC as: - carcinogenic, - mutagenic, - toxic to reproduction, - sensitising chemicals, or to substances that are qualified as: - persistent with a half-life of more than 60 days, - endocrine disrupters appearing on the EU list of suspected endocrine disrupters, - toxic, - bioaccumulative and non-readily degradable. Not later than ... * One year after the entry into force of this Regulation. , the Commission shall review and if necessary specify the criteria for treating an active substance as a low risk substance and, if appropriate, submit proposals. 2. Notwithstanding Article 6, active substances based on biological control agents which comply with the criteria of Article 4 shall be given approval for a period not exceeding 15 years where plant protection products containing such biological control agents are expected to present only a low risk to human and animal health and the environment as provided for in Article 50(1). 3. Article 4(4) and Articles 7 to 22 shall apply. Article 24 Approval criteria for basic substances 1. Basic substances shall be approved in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 6. ▐For the purpose of those paragraphs, a basic substance is an active substance which: a) is not predominantly used as a plant protection product but b) nevertheless has some use as a plant protection product, either directly or in a product consisting of the substance and a simple diluent, c) is not a substance of concern, and d) is not directly marketed for use as a plant protection product. For the purpose of this Regulation, an active substance which fulfils the criteria of a 'foodstuff' as defined in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 shall be considered as a basic substance. 2. ▐A basic substance shall be approved in accordance with Article 4