WRITTEN QUESTION P-4939/05 by Hiltrud Breyer (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (22 December 2005) Subject: EFSA (European Food Safety Authority) The EFSA regularly issues reports on the basis of which the Commission applies for or issues a licence for genetically modified products. In the case of the genetically modified maize Bt176, the EFSA already expressed strong initial reservations about the antibiotic resistance genes which it contained, but substantially toned down its objections in connection with the debate about the national bans. With regard to the licensing of such products as MON863, GT 71 and NK603, significant effects were observed on a number of occasions in animal experiments, but these were cast aside wholesale as irrelevant. Clearly the EFSA did not order a review of the statistical processing of the documents in any of these cases. In connection with the licensing procedures for cultivation of Bt11 and 1507, the EFSA neither insisted on comprehensive monitoring conditions nor genuinely examined the impact on non-target organisms. Evidently the EFSA is suffering from a general shortage of established experts to examine ecological issues in its GMO Panel. 1. To what extent are the decisions of the EFSA transparent and scientifically sound? Are there objective criteria which the EFSA applies in order to assess issues relating to the biological relevance of observed effects? What are they? 2. Why does the EFSA only make known its concerns about the use of antibiotic resistance genes selectively and in a contradictory manner? Why has the EFSA not undertaken any statistical review of data on animal experiments and not called for any further inquiries, even though significant effects have been observed? 3. What is the Commission's view of the current composition of the GMO Panel as regards ecological expertise and issues of biostatistics? In the Commission's opinion, which members of the GMO Panel have a particularly good record in this respect? 4. Under EU law, the EFSA is responsible for ‘risk assessment’ and the Commission for ‘risk management’. Can the Commission cite cases in which it has decided not to act on the EFSA's recommendations, and state the reasons for this, particularly where the licensing of genetically modified products is concerned? If not, can the Commission say how the distinction between ‘risk assessment’ and ‘risk management’ operates in practice?