The European Patients Ombudsman shall consider and, if appropriate, mediate on patient complaints with regard to prior authorisation, reimbursement of costs or harm. The European Patients Ombudsman shall only be engaged once all the complaint options within the relevant Member State have been exhausted . Article 12 Information for patients concerning the use of healthcare in another Member State 1. The Member States of affiliation shall ensure that there are easily accessible mechanisms in place , including by electronic means, promptly to provide patients on request with information on receiving healthcare in another Member State, and shall include information on patients' entitlements, on procedures for accessing those entitlements and on systems of appeal and redress if the patient is deprived of such entitlements, and the terms and conditions that would apply, inter alia, whenever harm is caused as a result of healthcare received in another Member State. This information shall be published in formats accessible to persons with disabilities. Member States shall consult stakeholders, including patients' organisations, to ensure information is clear and accessible. In information about cross-border healthcare, a clear distinction shall be made between the rights which patients have by virtue of this Directive and rights arising from regulations on coordination of social security schemes as referred to in Article 3(1)(k). ▌ 2. In addition to the information outlined in paragraph 1, information on health professionals and healthcare providers shall be made easily available via electronic means by the Member State in which the health professionals and healthcare providers are registered, and shall include the name, registration number and practice address of the healthcare professional, and any restrictions on their practice. ▌ Article 13 Rules applicable to healthcare provided in another Member State 1. When healthcare is provided in a Member State other than that where the patient is an insured person, ▌ such healthcare service is provided according to the legislation of the Member State of treatment in accordance with Article 5. 2. This Article shall not apply as far as the recognition of the professional qualifications is concerned. Article 14 National contact points for cross-border healthcare 1. Member States shall designate national contact points for cross-border healthcare and communicate their names and contact details to the Commission. Member States shall ensure that patient organisations, sickness funds and healthcare providers are encompassed by national contact points. The national contact points shall be established in an efficient and transparent way. Information about the existence of the national contact points shall be disseminated across Member States, so that patients have easy access to the information. 2. The national contact points for cross-border health care may also be incorporated into existing information centres in the Member States. 3 . The national contact point in the Member State of affiliation shall ▌ provide and disseminate information to patients and health professionals, on a website if appropriate, on receiving healthcare in another Member State, and on the terms and conditions which apply , in particular on patients' rights related to cross-border healthcare as laid down in Article 6 . The national contact point shall