the meteorological conditions ; (Amendment 13) Article 11(1) 1. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council by [31 December 2004[ at the latest a report based on experience of the application of this Directive, and in particular on the findings of the most recent scientific research into the effects on human health and the environment of exposure to ozone, and on technological developments, including progress achieved in methods of measuring and otherwise assessing concentrations. 1. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council by [31 December 2004[ at the latest a report based on experience of the application of this Directive, and in particular on the findings of the most recent scientific research into the effects on human health and the environment of exposure to ozone, and on technological developments, including progress achieved in methods of measuring and otherwise assessing concentrations and their evolution throughout Europe. The report shall compare model predictions with actual measurements. (Amendment 14) Article 11(2) 2. The report shall include a review of the provisions of this Directive in the light of the most recent scientific research concerning in particular the effects of ozone on human health and the environment . 2. The report shall include a review of the provisions of this Directive in the light of the most recent scientific research concerning in particular the effects of ozone on the environment and on human health, specifically taking into account sensitive population groups . (Amendment 15) Article 11(3)(b) (b) transport of pollution across national boundaries; (b) transport of pollution across national boundaries , taking account of the progress made by accession candidate countries as regards preparations for the implementation of Community air quality legislation ; (Amendment 16) Article 11(3)(fa) (new) (fa) the relationship between this Directive and expected changes in the consumption of fuels as a result of measures to be taken by Member States in order to fulfil commitments relating to climate change; (Amendment 17) Article 11(3)(i) (i) with specific regard to ozone, the potential to achieve the long-term objective, based on the guidelines of the WHO, within a foreseeable time period . (i) with specific regard to ozone, the potential to achieve the long-term objective, based on the guidelines of the WHO, by 2020. (Amendment 18) ANNEX I (II) and (III) Text proposed by the Commission II. Target values for ozone Parameter Target value Year by which the target value must be attained as far as possible 1 1. Target value for the protection of human health Highest 8-hour mean within one day, calculated from hourly running 8-hour averages 120 µg/m³ not to be exceeded on more than 20 days per calendar year averaged over three years² 2010 2. Target value for the protection of vegetation AOT40, calculated from 1h values from May to July 17000 µg/m³.h averaged over five years² 2010 1 Compliance with target values will be assessed as of this date. That is, 2010 will be the first year the data for which is used in calculating compliance over the following three or five years,