professionals as enshrined in the Treaty and in particular regulated by Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22. ║ . (20) Systematic and continuous efforts should be made to ensure that quality and safety standards are improved, in line with the Council Conclusions of 1-2 June 2006 ║ and taking into account advances in international medical science and generally recognised good medical practices as well as taking into account new health technology. ( 21 ) Research suggests that harm arises from healthcare in around 10% of cases. Ensuring that Member States of treatment have systems in place (including provision of aftercare) to deal with alleged harm arising from healthcare as defined by the Member State of treatment is therefore essential to avoid lack of confidence in those mechanisms acting as an obstacle to taking up cross-border healthcare. Coverage for harm and compensation by the systems of the Member State of treatment should be without prejudice to the possibility for Member States to extend the coverage of their domestic systems to patients from one Member State seeking healthcare in another Member State , where this is more appropriate to the patient, in particular in the case of patients for whom use of healthcare in another Member State is necessary. ( 22 ) Member States should ensure ║ that mechanisms for the protection of patients and ║ compensation for harm are in place for healthcare provided on their territory and that they are appropriate to the nature and extent of the risk. However, it is for the Member State to determine the nature and/or modalities of such a mechanism. ( 23 ) The right to the protection of personal data is a fundamental right recognised by Article 8 of the Charter ║. Ensuring continuity of cross-border healthcare depends on transfer of personal data concerning patient's health. Those personal data should be able to flow freely from one Member State to another, but at the same time the fundamental rights of the individuals should be safeguarded. Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. establishes the right for individuals to have access to their personal data concerning their health, for example in the patient's medical records containing such matters as diagnosis, examination results, assessments by treating physicians and any treatment or interventions provided. These provisions also apply in the context of cross-border healthcare covered by this Directive. The patient should be able to stop the release of his data at any point and receive confirmation that his data have been deleted. ( 24 ) The right to reimbursement of the costs of healthcare provided in another Member State from the statutory social security scheme of patients as insured persons has been recognised by the Court of Justice in several judgements. The Court of