European environment and health strategy; 4. Underlines that an immediate priority for the action plan must be a more comprehensive survey and evaluation in the short-term of the levels of evidence already available which explore the links between exposure to environmental factors and disease from the various studies already available, studies collected during the first phase, as well as available toxicological data, with a view to proposing concrete measures to protect human health and the environment as soon as possible; 5. Calls on the Commission to establish an inventory of known damage to health caused by environmental factors, including the costs of such damage; 6. Calls for the link between traffic, transport and air pollution, on the one hand, and asthma and respiratory diseases on the other, to be made stronger in the first cycle of the strategy, as asthma and respiratory diseases are closely connected with air pollution, and calls for an equal focus to be placed on the two problem areas; 7. Recommends that the action plan should provide for more extensive measures to improve indoor air quality in the residential environment, public places (particularly nursery schools and schools) and work-places; 8. Considers that protecting the health of children against environment-related diseases is an essential investment with a view to ensuring adequate human and economic development; 9. Calls for the action plan to take account of the protection of inhabitants against risks arising from radon and carbon monoxide poisoning in the residential environment; 10. Recommends that the action plan include studies to detect hot spots of emissions and exposure that endanger health and that these studies focus on the risks in question in order to find rapid solutions that will prevent adverse effects on health; also recommends that the action plan provide for the drafting of standards, protection measures as well as information on risks associated with the home; 11. Calls for the action plan to devote particular attention to people living close to sources of pollution and to step up the policy of prevention based, in particular, on identifying, quantifying and reducing emissions and on stepping up monitoring of the environment for carcinogens and substances which damage the reproductive and nervous systems; 12. Stresses the importance of protecting water resources and thus the need to limit industrial and urban emissions of pollutants, both diffuse and from point sources, and emissions from agriculture of fertilisers and phytopharmaceutical products, which will require changes to be made in agricultural policies and practices; 13. Stresses that the action plan must take into account the problems linked to labelling, given that clear and user-friendly labelling is essential if consumers are to be informed and made aware of the impact on the environment of the products in question; believes, furthermore, that the action plan should establish other particular ways and means of ensuring appropriate information for children-consumers; 14. Stresses that the link between the strategy's integrated monitoring and response system and the proposal for a regulation concerning the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals - REACH, ( COM(2003) 644 ), which will provide toxicological