majority of countries to support key votes, which would give more authority to the opinions of developing countries. Defending the IMF Pierre Duquesne, French Executive Director in the IMF and World Bank, argued that it was an "optical illusion" that Europe was over-represented. He saw no political will for and many practical problems in trying to unite EU or eurozone representation, though there was room for more coordination. His Belgian counterpart at the IMF, Willy Kiekens, said it was a misunderstanding to say the IMF had pressed for premature financial market liberalisation. In terms of managing global financial problems, he pointed out that while in 1945 IMF members had agreed binding powers for the institution, since the 1970s all its activity had been voluntary. Europe's response to global imbalances Portuguese Finance Minister Fernando Teixeira dos Santos said that Europe should best prepare for a possible abrupt adjustment of global imbalances even if these were not of Europe's making. The best way to do this would be to seek real convergence rather than just the nominal convergence on the euro entry criteria, and to continue structural reforms: "An economy that increases its output and growth potential will impact on world demand and favour a soft adjustment. More convergence will minimise the likely costs for Europe of any adjustment, and lessen the chances of an asymmetric impact." Summing up the two days of debate with members of the European and national parliaments, Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee Chair Pervenche Berès (PES, FR) said it was clear that having a single currency did not of itself do away with economic divergence between Member States. There was a need, she said, to strengthen the Eurogroup and improve the economic pillar of Economic and Monetary Union. "When it comes to international bodies, national parliaments and the European Parliament should work in tandem. The accountability of national representatives in such bodies is a vital question for our democracies," she said. 2007-02-28 Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Chair Pervenche Berès PES FR Debate with national parliaments - "Euro zone - converging or drifting apart" 20070226IPR03590 Programme of the meeting and other useful information EN 1 LINK /comparl/econ/hearings/20070228/default_en.htm -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN