space exploration, allowing international cooperation opportunities and dramatic technological breakthroughs as well as cost‑effective missions; exploitation and exploration of space supported through enabling activities guaranteeing the strategic role of the European Union. These activities will be complemented by other actions under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme and in the Education and Training Programme. The public policy benefits of the below activities will also be maximised, including by the provision of additional support for new policy needs that may arise, for example: space‑based solutions in support of developing countries and use of space‑observation tools and methods to support developments in Community policies. With particular focus on the use of existing capabilities in Europe, the activities set out below aim at: the efficient exploitation of space assets (in coordination with in-situ assets, including airborne assets) for the implementation of applications, namely GMES and their contribution to law enforcement in Community policies; space exploration, allowing international cooperation opportunities and dramatic technological breakthroughs as well as cost‑effective missions; exploitation and exploration of space supported through enabling activities guaranteeing the strategic role of the European Union. These activities will be complemented by other actions under the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme and in the Education and Training Programme. The public policy benefits of the below activities will also be maximised, including by the provision of additional support for new policy needs that may arise, for example: space‑based solutions in support of developing countries and use of space‑observation tools and methods to support developments in Community policies. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 31 Annex I, Chapter I "Cooperation", Theme 10 "Security", Subtitle "Rationale", paragraph 4 a (new) The special requirements concerning confidentiality are to be enforced but the transparency of research findings is not to be unnecessarily restricted. In addition, areas are to be identified that permit the present transparency of research findings. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 32 Annex I, Chapter II "Ideas", Subtitle "Activities", paragraph 3 The Scientific Council will consist of representatives of the European scientific community, ensuring a diversity of the research fields, at the highest level, acting in their personal capacity, independently of political or other interests. Its members will be appointed by the Commission following an independent procedure for their identification. They will be appointed for a period of four years, renewable once, on a basis of a rotating system which will ensure the continuity of the Scientific Council's work. The Scientific Council will consist of representatives of the European scientific community, ensuring a diversity of the research fields, at the highest level, acting in their personal capacity, independently of political or other interests. Its members will be appointed by the Commission following an independent and transparent procedure for their identification agreed with the Scientific Council including a consultation of the scientific community and a report to the European Parliament and the Council. They will be appointed for a period of four years, renewable once, on a basis of a rotating system which