where they are complementary. In such cases he shall follow the procedure laid down in paragraph 5. Authors of such amendments may propose such collective votes where their amendments are complementary. 7. The President may decide, following the adoption or rejection of a particular amendment, that several other amendments of similar content or with similar objectives shall be put to the vote collectively. The President may seek the agreement of Parliament before doing so. Such a set of amendments may relate to different parts of the original text. 8. Where two or more identical amendments are tabled by different authors, they shall be put to the vote as one. Rule 156 Committee consideration of plenary amendments When over fifty amendments have been tabled to a report for consideration in Parliament, the President may, after consulting its chair, request the committee responsible to meet to consider the amendments. Any amendment not receiving favourable votes at this stage from at least one-tenth of the members of the committee shall not be put to the vote in Parliament. Rule 157 Split voting 1. Where the text to be put to the vote contains two or more provisions or references to two or more points or lends itself to division into two or more parts each with a distinct logical meaning and normative value, a split vote may be requested by a political group or at least forty Members. 2. The request shall be made the evening before the vote, unless the President sets a different deadline. The President shall decide on the request. Rule 158 Right to vote The right to vote is a personal right. Members shall cast their votes individually and in person. Any infringement of this Rule shall be considered as a serious case of disorder as referred to in Rule 147(1) and shall have the legal consequences mentioned in that Rule. Rule 159 Voting 1. Normally Parliament shall vote by show of hands. 2. If the President decides that the result is doubtful, a fresh vote shall be taken using the electronic voting system and, if the latter is not working, by sitting and standing. 3. The result of the vote shall be recorded. Rule 160 Voting by roll call 1. In addition to the cases provided for under Rules 99(4) and 100(5), the vote shall be taken by roll call if so requested in writing by a political group or at least forty Members the evening before the vote unless the President sets a different deadline. 2. The roll shall be called in alphabetical order, beginning with the name of a Member drawn by lot. The President shall be the last to be called to vote. Voting shall be by word of mouth and shall be expressed by "Yes", "No", or "I abstain". In calculating whether a motion has been adopted or rejected account shall be taken only of votes cast for and against. The President shall establish the result of the vote and announce it. Votes shall be recorded in the minutes of the sitting by political group in