well as Parliament's resolution. 4. Where an institution is unable to comply with the timetable laid down it shall notify the other institutions as to the reasons for the delay and propose a new timetable. Rule 34 Examination of respect for fundamental rights, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the rule of law, and financial implications During the examination of a legislative proposal, Parliament shall pay particular attention to respect for fundamental rights and in particular that the legislative act is in conformity with the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the rule of law. In addition, where a proposal has financial implications, Parliament shall establish whether sufficient financial resources are provided. Rule 35 Verification of legal basis 1. For all Commission proposals and other documents of a legislative nature, the committee responsible shall first verify the legal basis. 2. If the committee responsible disputes the validity or the appropriateness of the legal basis, including in the context of the verification pursuant to Article 5 of the EC Treaty, it shall request the opinion of the committee responsible for legal affairs. 3. The committee responsible for legal affairs may also on its own initiative take up questions concerning the legal basis of the proposals submitted by the Commission. In such cases it shall duly inform the committee responsible. 4. If the committee responsible for legal affairs decides to dispute the validity or the appropriateness of the legal basis, it shall report its conclusions to Parliament. Parliament shall vote on this prior to voting on the substance of the proposal. 5. Amendments tabled in Parliament to change the legal basis of a Commission proposal without the committee responsible or the committee responsible for legal affairs having disputed the validity or appropriateness of the legal basis shall be inadmissible. 6. If the Commission does not agree to modify its proposal to conform to the legal basis approved by Parliament, the rapporteur or the chairman of the committee responsible for legal affairs or of the committee responsible may propose that the vote on the substance of the proposal be postponed to a subsequent sitting. Rule 36 Verification of financial compatibility 1. Without prejudice to Rule 40, the committee responsible shall verify the financial compatibility of any Commission proposal, or any other document of a legislative nature, with the Financial Perspective. 2. When the committee responsible amends the financial endowment of the act it is considering, it shall request the opinion of the committee responsible for budgetary issues. 3. The committee responsible for budgetary issues may also on its own initiative take up questions concerning the financial compatibility of proposals submitted by the Commission. In such cases it shall duly inform the committee responsible. 4. If the committee responsible for budgetary issues decides to dispute the financial compatibility of the proposal, it shall report its conclusions to Parliament which shall put them to the vote. 5. An act declared incompatible may be adopted by Parliament subject to the decisions of the Budgetary Authority. Rule 37 Access to documents and