Stability Pact be reviewed? Othmar KARAS (EPP-ED, A) and Robert GOEBBELS (PES, L) both focused on the Stability Pact. " You are from a country - and it is not the only one - which is not sticking to the Stability and Growth Pact. How do you feel about this? " asked Mr KARAS. Mr TRICHET replied that all countries in the eurozone had undertaken to obey the Pact and that it was their duty to abide by it. The failure by France and other countries to stick to the 3% deficit rule could undermine confidence. In any economy, he explained, there was a threshold above which Keynesian benefits that could be expected from increased public expenditure would in the end lead to a loss of confidence and ultimately militate against growth. He recalled that France had set itself a 3% rule in the 1980s, even though today it was exceeding this figure. Mr GOEBBELS, referring to statements by some European Commissioners, asked Mr Trichet if the time had not come to draw up an even more intelligent pact designed to achieve growth too. Mr Trichet replied that the current pact was a stability and growth pact and he restated several times afterwards the argument that stability generates confidence which itself boosts growth. According to Mr Trichet, the Pact is still unanimously supported by the Member States, and none of them has so far asked for the rules to be changed. Sticking to the criteria was not, he maintained, a question of ultra-orthodoxy but of keeping the trust of Europe's citizens. In reply to Mrs RANDIO-PLATH, who asked whether his interpretation of the ECB's mandate and the Maastricht criteria was perhaps too restrictive, Mr TRICHET said that all the States subscribed to this and he added " Europe's citizens like price stability! This emerges clearly from any studies that are carried out ". Recent moves by the ECB to fine-tune the definition of desirable inflation (less than, or near to, 2%) have, he said, helped create the best possible economic environment. Social concerns Several MEPs quizzed Mr Trichet about the social consequences of current monetary policy and deplored the lack of dialogue between Ecofin and the ECB. Of these Members, Pervenche BERES (PES, F) complained that governments in Ecofin did not sufficiently coordinate their economic policies. Armonia BORDES (EUL/NGL, F) maintained that current monetary policy tended to drag social policy downwards, while Giorgios KATIFORIS (PES, GR) alluded to the period of stagflation in the 1970s and 1980s and said that the price paid for reducing inflation had been unemployment of around 10%. Mr Trichet rejected this last claim as being an oversimplified analysis of macro-economic policy. To Ms Beres, he said that the President of Ecofin, the Commissioner for economic and monetary policy and the ECB were in contact once a fortnight. "The channels of communication exist. What is lacking is a bold implementation of the Lisbon programme, by which the Member States undertook to carry out structural reforms which should support growth" . To Ms Bordes he replied that the policy