6.7.2010 B7-0415/2010 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure on the case of Farai Maguwu Fiorello Provera , Oreste Rossi , Mara Bizzotto on behalf of the EFD Group PE442.013v01-00 B7‑0415/2010 European Parliament resolution on the case of Farai Maguwu The European Parliament , - having regard to its previous resolutions on Zimbabwe, - having regard to the previous Council declarations on Zimbabwe, - having regard to Rule 122(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas Farai Maguwu was arrested on 3 June 2010 in Mutare and has been charged with publishing falsehoods against the State with the intention to cause prejudice to the security and economic interests of the country, B. whereas the arrest took place just days after Farai Maguwu had met with Abbey Chikane, the monitor appointed by the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, in which they discussed evidence of alleged military abuses in the diamond-rich region of Marange in Mutare West, C. whereas Farai Maguwu is the head of the Centre for Research and Development, an organisation which is frequently targeted by the Zimbabwean authorities, D. whereas the army took over the Marange mines in the east of the country in 2008 and has since been accused of committing widespread abuses there - killing some 200 miners and forcing others to work in the mines, E. whereas Farai Maguwu was denied bail on 10 June and has been consistently denied access to medication and medical attention by prison staff despite a Court order on 10 June 2010, 1. Strongly condemns the arrest and detention of Farai Maguwu and calls on the Zimbabwean authorities for his immediate release; 2. Condemns the Zimbabwean government decision to proceed with the export sale of diamonds from the Marange field whether or not such diamonds have been certified by the Kimberly Process; 3. Calls on the Zimbabwean government to respect the right of human rights defenders to investigate allegations of military abuses related to diamond mining; 4. Expresses its concern for the health conditions of Farai Maguwu and calls on the relevant authorities to grant him access to medical treatment without delay; 5. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the governments of the G8 countries, the governments and parliaments of Zimbabwe, the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the chairpersons of the Commission and Executive Council of the African Union, the Pan-African Parliament and the Secretary-General and governments of the SADC and its Parliamentary Forum and to the Government of Israel in its capacity as rotating Chair of the Kimberly Process.