ORAL QUESTION WITH DEBATE O-0038/06 pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure by Thierry Cornillet , on behalf of the ALDE Group to the Council Subject: Counterfeiting of medicinal products The counterfeiting of medicinal products is the most serious and the most amoral of all forms of such deception and it constitutes a growing scourge in many countries, causing the health and even the lives of millions of people to be put at risk. In developing countries in particular, medicinal products are in circulation which are too strong or too weak, have no active ingredient or are even toxic. In those countries the medicinal products which are most often counterfeited are those used to treat potentially fatal diseases such as malaria, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. World trends in the counterfeiting of medicinal products are worrying. According to WHO estimates, 6% of drugs on the world market are counterfeit - the US Food and Drug Administration puts the figure at 10%. Up to 70% of the anti-malaria drugs available in Cameroon are counterfeit. In 2003 the WHO corroborated this figure for six other African countries. Of the medicinal products consumed in poor countries, 25% are allegedly counterfeit. The EU is a late entrant to the international fight against counterfeiting. What action (in addition to publishing the Commission Communication entitled 'Strategy for the enforcement of intellectual-property rights in third countries') has the EU taken and is it intending to take in order to combat the scourge of counterfeit medicines on its territory? There are many reasons accounting for such a huge presence of counterfeit medicinal products in developing countries. What action does the EU intend to take in order to help poor countries to regulate and monitor the quality of medical products and equipment placed on the market? Should the EU not play an active role in the promotion of an International Convention designed to ensure that each country makes the counterfeiting of medicinal products (or the handling thereof) a specific crime or offence under its law?