Answer given by Mr Oettinger on behalf of the Commission (14 April 2011) On 25 March 2011, the European Council concluded that the safety of all EU nuclear plants should be reviewed, on the basis of a comprehensive and transparent risk and safety assessment. The European Commission and European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group (ENSREG) will develop the scope and modalities of these tests. The assessments will be conducted by independent national authorities and through peer reviews. The European Council will evaluate the findings by the end of 2011, on the basis of a report from the Commission. In addition, the European Council called for similar assessments to be carried out in the neighbouring countries and worldwide. Further, the European Council mandated the Commission to review the existing legal and regulatory framework for the safety of nuclear installations by the end of 2011. The European Commission is aware of Turkey's nuclear energy ambitions and has been urging Turkey to adopt a nuclear law framework which ensures a high level of nuclear safety in line with EU standards, inter alia by acceding to the Joint Convention on the safety of spent fuel management and radioactive waste management. As a candidate country, Turkey is requested to progressively align its legislation with all the aquis communautaire on nuclear safety, including the Nuclear Safety Directive Council Directive 2009/71/Euratom of 25 June 2009, establishing a Community framework for the nuclear safety of nuclear installations, OJ L 172, 2.7.2009, p. 18. that is due for transposition in all Member States by 22 July 2011. Turkey has partially implemented the acquis on Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA). Under Turkish national legislation, an EIA has to be carried out for those public and private projects which are likely to have significant effects on the environment. The Commission is confident that Turkey will carry out an EIA in the case of the planned nuclear power plants and will follow the matter closely. As regards plans for a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu, the decision of the Turkish authorities to build a nuclear power plant in an area known for its seismic activity is a matter of concern. As the Commission pointed out in its answer to Question E‑3767/2010 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB , the choice of the energy mix, including the use of nuclear power, is in principle a sovereign decision of each country. Nevertheless, the national decision on using nuclear energy as a source of the electricity generation should be based on the country's capacity to ensure a high level of safety, security and safeguards throughout the entire lifecycle of a nuclear installation, in line with international conventions and best practices. This has always been an important parameter of the EU enlargement policy.