2008. In Europe, the numbers of newly diagnosed infections are increasing throughout the 25 EU Member States, with the United Kingdom, France, Italy and Spain seeing the highest rates of new HIV infections (EuroHIV, 2007). Economic and social impact of demographic tendencies in the EU MEPs will hear statements from the Commission and Council on the economic and social impact of demographic tendencies in the EU on Wednesday 19 November. With profound changes in Europe's population structure, demographic change is high on the European policy agenda. Eurostat, the Commission statistical agency, expects the EU population, standing at 495 million on 1 January, 2008, to rise to 521 million in 2035. The UK population is predicted to become the largest in the EU, reaching 77 million by 2060. European Union Solidarity Fund: obstacles to its reform - questions to the Commission The Commission proposal modifying Council Regulation on the European Union Solidarity Fund has been kept on hold by the Council for more than two years since the European Parliament gave it its first reading. Parliament considers it to be of paramount importance to have a Solidarity Fund Regulation which meets the challenges and allows the Union to deliver prompt and effective assistance when Member States suffer a disaster. The Commission will be questioned on the European Solidarity Fund and obstacles to its reform. Recommendations to reduce the pay gap between men and women Edit BAUER (EPP-ED, SL) will be tabling an own-initiative report on equal pay for men and women. The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality recommends a revision of existing legislation on equal pay to bring about a "significant reduction in the pay gap" between men and women. Women earn on average 15% less than men in the European Union and up to 25% less in the private sector. EU Passenger Name Records - MEPs to vote on a resolution Parliament will vote on Thursday 20 November on a resolution on PNR data. PNR data are data originally collected for commercial purposes, while now serving an increasing number of security purposes (such as aviation security, immigration control, fiscal fraud, money laundering, preventing terrorism and crimes and prevention of communicable diseases, etc) as introduced since September 2001 by the US, Canada, Australia and more recently by the UK, France and Denmark. How to bring space down to earth, ask MEPs The EU and its Member States have been involved in financing and developing space technology and science for over 30 years. The adoption of the EC-ESA Framework Agreement in November 2003 gradually led to a European Space Policy (ESP). The resolution of the ‘Space Council’ on 22 May 2007 confirmed its commitment. The draft Lisbon Treaty and its Article 189 of the TFEU provide the EU with a legal framework for translating Council resolutions into policy initiatives. Questions on the European Space Policy and how to bring space down to earth will be put to both the Council and Commission. Convention on cluster munitions - questions to the Council In Dublin, at the end of the international meeting of States