and effective application of a directive. To meet this obligation, it is not sufficient for a Member State merely to adopt the necessary transposing legislation. In other words, implementation is not, in the eyes of the Court, a one-off task of a purely legislative nature. The adoption of national measures correctly transposing a directive does not exhaust the effects of the directive. The Member State remains bound to ensure compliance with the provisions of a directive even after the adoption of implementing measures: “… the adoption of national measures correctly implementing a directive does not exhaust the effects of the directive. Member States remain bound actually to ensure full application of the directive even after the adoption of those measures. Individuals are therefore entitled to rely before national courts, against the State, on the provisions of a directive which appear, so far as their subject-matter is concerned, to be unconditional and sufficiently precise whenever the full application of the directive is not in fact secured, that is to say, not only where the directive has not been implemented or has been implemented incorrectly, but also where the national measures correctly implementing the directive are not being applied in such a way as to achieve the result sought by it . ” See Case C-62/00, Marks & Spencer v . Commissioners of Customs and Excise [2002] ECR I-6325, para 27. Further, the Court has repeatedly held that directives are binding on all the authorities of the Member States. Thus, not only the legislature is bound by a Directive but also the administrative agencies responsible for the day-to-day application and enforcement of the law and the domestic courts. The intention behind this is to avoid administrative practices or judicial interpretations that undermine the protection of interests established by the directive. In recent years, the Court has placed particular emphasis on tackling the problem of “second level non-compliance”, that is, the situation where, although domestic legislation is formally compatible with Community law, its application or enforcement is undermined by administrative or judicial practices. The Court has also held that a national administrative practice can be the subject of an enforcement action when it is, to some degree, of a consistent and general nature. See e.g. Case C-387/99, Commission v. Germany , judgment of 29 April 2004, para 42. Thus, at least the systematic and consistent tolerance on the part of national authorities of situations inconsistent with the provisions of a directive is a breach of Community law even if the directive has been formally transposed into national law. Case C-494/01, Commission v Ireland , judgment of 26 April 2005. Finally, where a directive confers rights on individuals, the relevant domestic legislation must be sufficiently precise and clear so that the persons concerned are made fully aware of their rights, and, where appropriate, afforded the possibility of relying on them before national courts. See Case C-59/89, Commission v Germany . From a judicial protection perspective, the precision and clarity of domestic implementing legislation is crucial because it paves the way to obtaining redress before a national