WRITTEN QUESTION E-2385/07 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) and Helmuth Markov (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (4 May 2007) Subject: Interruption of direct rail service between Amsterdam and Berlin due to mistakes in building a tunnel; lack of information and confusion about continuation of service 1. Is the Commission aware that the most central and direct railway line from Amsterdam to Berlin passes through the Dutch town of Almelo, where building work is in progress on an underground twin-track line between the stations of Almelo and Almelo de Riet, and that on 24 March 2007 the old surface track there was replaced with a temporary single-track line beside the tunnel construction site, but that this replacement line was unusable because technical safety mistakes were made by the designer, Grontmij, and that in subsequent weeks it was not possible to replace the replacement line without a new design from the engineers Movares, with the result that not only domestic intercity services to Enschede were halted, but so were the international services which would normally have run four times a day from Amsterdam to Berlin and back? 2. Is the Commission aware of complaints from passengers about the fact that inside Germany no accessible information was provided about this break in the line at Almelo and about the need for international passengers to make a time-consuming detour via Duisburg and Arnhem? 3. Is the Commission aware of the idea which has been mooted for some time that on this old main line between Amsterdam and Berlin, on which there are frequent long-distance domestic services (IC, ICE) in both countries, the short cross-border section between Oldenzaal and Bad Bentheim (journey time: less than 15 minutes), which is used by fewer passengers, should no longer be served by train, thus terminating this rail service between the two countries, so that long-distance international traffic from the Netherlands to Berlin, Poland and the Czech Republic or to Hamburg and Scandinavia (via the interchange station at Osnabrück) would be completely diverted to a circuitous alternative route involving a change of train much further south, in Duisburg? 4. Is the Commission aware of the assumption by the German rail users' association Pro Bahn that the neglect of this route is partly due to the fact that in Germany nobody any longer feels responsible for IC trains, while the federal states are likewise not interested in this route because it passes through Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia alternately? 5. Does the Commission intend to acquiesce in the possible disappearance of this route, which plays an important part in international long-distance services? What will the Commission do to help keep it in existence for the foreseeable future?