Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (16 January 2006) Access to the Internet by European citizens and businesses has been a European Union priority for several years, as reflected for example in the eEurope initiative of 2000. This was confirmed recently by the i2010 initiative adopted on 1 June 2005. This emphasised the importance of broadband access as a key element in the completion of a single European Information Space to support innovation and knowledge and generate sustainable growth in the EU economy. In the context of these initiatives, the Commission and the Member States have undertaken several projects in the fields of e-government, e-health, e-content. The aim of these is to allow Europe to fully benefit from its economic potential. New content creation, services and business models are driving growth and jobs and a broadband infrastructure is central to realising the potential of the knowledge economy. In addition, the regulatory framework for electronic communications, in force since July 2003, has facilitated competition in the sector of electronic communications services, including broadband services. Broadband has become the main form of Internet access, replacing old, low-capacity dial-up access and giving users a much larger range of services and possibilities. Broadband penetration has dramatically increased in the EU in recent years. The average broadband penetration in the EU has grown from 6.5 % in July 2004 to 11.5 % in October 2005 and has been closing the gap with the United States (US) (12.8 % in 2005). In fact several Member States (the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Belgium, France and the United Kingdom) have outperformed the US, with penetration rates ranging between 22.4 % and 15 %. The EU now has 53 million subscribers, by far the largest single broadband market in the world. Greece has had the lowest prices in the EU for low capacity dial-up Internet access, which, however, has not led to a significant number of households choosing to get access. With regard to broadband access, Greece has the lowest penetration rate in the EU of approximately 1 %. This is partly due to the apparent lack of effective competition This is yet to be confirmed through a Market analysis procedure under Article 16 of Directive 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (framework directive), OJ L 108, 24.4.2002, p. 33. in the Greek market. In this context, Greece is the only Member State which has not yet transposed the regulatory framework, for which it was condemned by the European Court of Justice on 15 December 2005. Once the regulatory framework is transposed in Greece, appropriate regulation to reinforce competition will be possible and should lead to more choice, lower prices and better quality of services for Greek citizens and businesses.