many times that the funding available for the EU's action outside its borders for the period 2007-2013 is inadequate. The Budgets Committee is proposing to reduce by 20% the funds allocated to the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) in the budget and to use the €40 million thereby released to finance other objectives in Category 4 ("The EU as a global partner"), which the committee sees as seriously underfunded. To fund aid to Kosovo and Palestine, MEPs suggest drawing on €87 million via the flexibility instrument. Of this figure, €40 million would be added to funds already envisaged for the missions to Kosovo and Palestine (to be divided equally between these two objectives). The flexibility instrument could also be used to fund unforeseen expenditure on the CFSP. Ultimately, the CFSP would still be allocated €200 million, as originally planned, since the CFSP's €40 million, which could be found via the flexibility instrument, is exactly the same as the cut of 20% proposed by MEPs. A discussion on the level of funding of Category 4 and other policies would seem to be needed between Parliament and Council, inter alia on these CFSP-related matters. Agencies: a boost for Frontex The Budgets Committee does not support the expenditure cuts on the agencies desired by the Council. MEPs believe the agencies have fully justified their budget needs, as demanded by the EP. The one exception is Frontex, the agency for the EU's external frontiers, whose budget has virtually doubled, with €30 million extra for operational costs. The figure earmarked for this agency thus rises to €70 million in total. This decision is in line with Parliament's political priorities in the area of "freedom, security and justice" but MEPs remain critical of the results achieved by Frontex and the committee is therefore calling for 30% of its administrative costs to be placed in reserve. This funding would only be released if the head of the agency can provide Parliament with an explanation of the agency's known failures and above all a plan to improve its operational effectiveness. Lastly, MEPs reversed the latest round of cuts made by the Council to the "Lisbon" headings (competitiveness, growth, employment - heading 1a), and in most cases restored the funding for cohesion (heading 1b) proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft budget. Parliament's first reading of the 2008 budget will take place on 23 October and negotiations with Council are expected to begin on 23 November. 2007-10-08 Committee on Budgets In the chair: Reimer Böge EPP-ED DE 20071008IPR11335 -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN