WRITTEN QUESTION P-1565/09 by Henrik Lax (ALDE) to the Commission (6 March 2009) Subject: Future of transport in the Kvarken region The EU's ban on tax-free sales within the Union resulted in the end of tax-free sales on ferries operating in the Kvarken region, which created constant uncertainty about the future of passenger services as there is no permanent support for such transport. Kvarken is an economically and culturally coherent area, though sparsely populated. The EU is meant to stimulate mobility and economic activity through cooperation across national borders. Where the EU's own legislation has the opposite effect, the EU must also intervene to correct such a situation. The most natural step would be to provide direct support to transport services in the Kvarken region. The ferry services are of great importance for economic activity and private individuals on both sides of Kvarken. The Commission is currently drawing up a Baltic Sea strategy on behalf of the Member States and the European Parliament, the purpose of which is to create a flourishing and attractive Baltic Sea region by means of economic and cultural cooperation, inter alia . Since the Kvarken area is an important part of this region, support should also be provided for activity which clearly helps to implement the Baltic Sea strategy in the region. To drive round Kvarken entails a journey of some 800 km; by boat it is just over 40 km. Before the end of tax-free sales, approximately 1 million people a year travelled between Vaasa and Umeå. In 2007, the figure was down to 70 000 a year. Ferry services between Jakobstad/Pietersaari and Skellefteå shut down entirely. What measures will the Commission take to remedy the unsatisfactory situation which arose when tax-free sales ended in Kvarken, making relations in an economic region with strong cultural ties considerably more difficult? Does the Commission intend to provide targeted aid for ferry services between Vaasa and Umeå? In what way can the forthcoming Baltic Sea strategy promote economic activity in the Kvarken region?