{ "context": [ [ "2017 NHL Winter Classic", [ "The 2017 NHL Winter Classic (officially the 2017 Bridgestone NHL Winter Classic) was a regular-season outdoor National Hockey League (NHL) game that was held on January 2, 2017.", " The game featured the St. Louis Blues taking on the Chicago Blackhawks at Busch Stadium in St. Louis, Missouri, home of Major League Baseball's Cardinals.", " The game was announced on March 9, 2016, after news of the matchup had been leaked on February 7 before the details had been finalized, and was one of four outdoor regular-season games during the 2016–17 NHL season." ] ], [ "2016–17 St. Louis Blues season", [ "The 2016–17 St. Louis Blues season was the 50th season for the National Hockey League franchise that was established on June 5, 1967.", " The team played in its first Winter Classic game on Monday, January 2, 2017, beating the Chicago Blackhawks 4–1 at Busch Stadium with 46,556 in attendance.", " It was only the third time in the nine Winter Classic games where the home team won.", " It was the Blues' first participation in a NHL Winter Classic game, while the Blackhawks lost for the third time in three appearances in the event." ] ], [ "Kansas City Blues (ice hockey)", [ "The Kansas City Blues were a minor-league hockey team based in Kansas City, Missouri that played in the Central Hockey League from 1967 to 1972, and again in the 1976-77 season, mainly as an affiliate of the in-state St. Louis Blues of the National Hockey League.", " The 1967 Blues were owned by Missouri Lieutenant Governor (1968-1972) William S. (Bill) Morris, and represented the return of hockey to Kansas City for the first time in over 30 years.", " Morris was determined to bring an NHL team to Kansas City and tried to lay the groundwork by convincing his friend Sid Soloman, owner of the St. Louis Blues, to create a farm team in Kansas City.", " The Blues made history on February 21, 1971, when Blues goalie Michel Plasse became the first goaltender to score a goal in a professional hockey game, scoring against the Oklahoma City Blazers.", " This goal was unfortunately witnessed by few as a snow storm was moving through the Kansas City area causing even the team's owner to leave the arena early." ] ], [ "St. Louis blues (music)", [ "St. Louis blues is a type of blues music.", " It is usually more piano-based than other forms of the blues and is closely related to jump blues, ragtime and piano blues.", " It is sometimes performed to a \"Saint Louis shuffle\" beat: a drum rhythm with heavy on-the-beat accents.", " A band performing St. Louis blues typically consists of one or a few singers, a pianist and a few other musical instruments (used primarily for rhythm), but it is also common for a guitarist to take the lead, even to play parts normally played on piano." ] ], [ "Jerzy George Kossek", [ "Jerzy \"George\" Kossek is a nationally and