Answer given by Ms Georgieva on behalf of the Commission (20 May 2011) The situation in Haiti has significantly evolved since the end of 2010. The number of displaced people is now assessed by the IOM to be around 610 000 people (from 1 500 000 shortly after the earthquake), and the figure is steadily decreasing. People either move in transitional shelters, have gone back to their own houses or, regrettably for a few, have nowhere to go. A significant proportion of people who are still in the camps have a standing house but are afraid of returning to a hard structure or wish to go on benefitting from the assistance delivered in the camps. For those who have nowhere to go, transitional solutions will have to be found, and some camps will need to continue until a sustainable solution can be put in practice. For the others, basic services in their neighbourhoods have to be re-established and enhanced in order to prevent them from returning to camps. In the New York conference on 31 March 2010, the EU made a single pledge amounting to EUR 1.235 billion for the reconstruction of Haiti. This pledge pooled together pledges from the European Commission, 18 EU Member States and the European Investment Bank. The EU has in 2010 allocated a total of EUR 340 million in humanitarian aid to Haiti including EUR 130 million managed by the Commission, with EUR 22 million in response to the cholera outbreak. Close to one third of this overall amount was dedicated to providing shelter solutions to displaced people (i.e. EUR 110 million). An envelope of EUR 23 million under the EDF B-envelope will be dedicated to providing shelter solutions to people still living in camps. Although the European relief aid is only a share of the overall assistance provided, humanitarian projects funded by the Commission and Member States have provided effective life saving assistance. The link between relief, rehabilitation and development is being concretised through several projects aiming at providing permanent shelter solutions and supporting the restoration of Haitian institutions.