adopted, P6_TA-PROV(2009)0387 . ; 49. Welcomes the fact that the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, together with the other members of the Commission, as a body, will be subject to a vote of consent by Parliament, as well as to a vote of censure, and will therefore be accountable to Parliament; 50. Welcomes the new procedure for the appointment of Judges and Advocates-General of the Court of Justice and the General Court as provided for in Article 255 of the TFEU, under which the national governments' decision is to be preceded by an opinion on candidates' suitability to perform their duties given by a panel of seven experts, one of whom is to be proposed by Parliament; 51. Underlines the need for transparency and democratic scrutiny concerning the setting-up of the European External Action Service (EEAS) in accordance with Article 27(3) of the TEU, and recalls its right to be consulted on its establishment; is of the opinion that, administratively, the EEAS should be attached to the Commission; 52. Expects clarifications with regard to the criteria for, and the appointment and evaluation of, EU Special Representatives, including the definition and purpose of their tasks, the length of their mandate, and coordination and complementarity with the Union's future delegations; 53. Underlines the need for transparency and democratic scrutiny concerning the European Defence Agency (EDA) and the activities undertaken it, namely by ensuring a regular exchange of information between the Chief Executive of the EDA and Parliament's committee responsible; 54. Welcomes the new consultation role it will have under Article 40.2 of the Statute of the ESCB and of the ECB with regard to changing the composition of the ECB Governing Council; 55. Welcomes the fact that agencies, notably Europol and Eurojust, will be subject to greater parliamentary scrutiny (Articles 85 and 88 of the TFEU); believes, therefore, that the retention of the consultation procedure for the setting-up of joint undertakings in the area of research and technological development (Articles 187 and 188 of the TFEU) may not conform to the spirit of the legal acts of the Union establishing agencies; New rights to be informed 56. Calls on the President of the European Council to keep Parliament fully informed about the preparations for European Council meetings and to give a report on the results of meetings, where possible within two working days (if necessary to a special sitting of Parliament); 57. Calls on the President of the rotating Council Presidency to inform Parliament about the Presidency programmes and about the results achieved; 58. Urges the future Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy to agree, with Parliament, upon adequate methods of keeping Parliament fully informed of, and consulted on, the Union's external action, duly involving all committees of Parliament which are responsible for areas falling under the remit of the High Representative; 59. Stresses that, as regards the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements, the Commission will be under a legal obligation to inform Parliament of the