Answer given by Ms Hübner on behalf of the Commission (25 January 2007) 1. It is true that Poland will become the major recipient of Cohesion Policy during the programming period 2007‑13 and that it will be a considerable challenge for the Polish authorities. However, the Commission does not share the Honourable Member's opinion on the problems of Poland with the absorption of European funds; it sees recently clear signals that the measures introduced by the Polish authorities in different legislative and administrative procedures are having a positive impact on the financial execution of European Union funded programmes. The Commission does not share the Honourable Member's view about the lack of a clear and comprehensive vision for funding. The current strategy for funding was established in the Community support framework 2004‑06, which was prepared in close cooperation between the Polish authorities (national, regional, local), social partners and the Commission. One of the development challenges for Poland is to assure a swift convergence of Poland with the European Union average economic development while counterbalancing the growing regional disparities within Poland. For this reason the larger part of European Union funding will be allocated on the basis of national strategies (e.g. transport, environment, innovation, employment, social inclusion, education) covering all regions. All regions have equal chances to apply for funding based on the quality of projects, and regional allocations are not pre-determined in advance. It is worth mentioning that a smaller share of European Union funding is managed by the regional authorities in the framework of the regional operational programmes. The budget is divided per region according to pre-determined criteria: population, unemployment rate and the level of GDP per capita. A broadly similar method was used for the regionalised part of the European Social Fund (ESF) interventions. At the December 2005 summit Poland was also granted a special allocation (EUR 992 million) for five eastern regions of Poland (Swietokrzyskie, Lubelskie, Warminsko-Mazurskie, Podlaskie and Podkarpackie) since in 2006 they were the poorest regions (in GDP per capita) in the European Union, in order to address their specific structural problems. 2. Within the budgetary framework agreed per Member State on the basis of the financial perspectives, all Member States were asked to use, to the extent possible, the method for regional allocations resulting directly from the method agreed by European Council and enshrined in Annex II to the Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 laying down general provisions on the European Development Fund (ERDF), the ESF an the Cohesion Fund OJ L 210, 31.7.2006. . Then, each Member State decides on the distribution of funding and the Commission assesses the Member State's proposal during the formal negotiations on the national strategic reference frameworks with a view to findingan accurate balance between the objectives set (in light of the Lisbon Strategy and within the framework of the Community strategic guidelines for cohesion) and the foreseen budget allocations to programmes/sectors in order to achieve these objectives.