Supplementary answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (29 June 2007) According to the information provided by National authorities, Yazaki Saltano did not receive any Community support from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund in any Member State other than Portugal, nor for Article 6 projects. According to the Slovak authorities, this company submitted a request for a programme in that country in 2004, which was not approved. More generally, the Commission would like to underline the objective of durability of the operations receiving community funding. Reinforcing previous rules having the same objective, the new General Regulation defining common principles, rules and standards for the implementation of the structural funds for 2007‑13 Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 11 July 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999, OJ L 210, 31.7.2006. provides in its Article 57 that: ‘1.The Member State or managing authority shall ensure that an operation retains the contribution from the Funds only if that operation does not, within five years from the completion of the operation or three years from the completion of the operation in Member States which have exercised the option of reducing that time limit for the maintenance of an investment or jobs created by small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), undergo a substantial modification: (a) affecting its nature or its implementation conditions or giving to a firm or a public body an undue advantage; and (b) resulting either from a change in the nature of ownership of an item of infrastructure or the cessation of a productive activity. 2. The Member State and the managing authority shall inform the Commission in the annual implementation report (…) of any modification referred to in paragraph 1. The Commission shall inform the other Member States. 3. Sums unduly paid shall be recovered (…). 4. The Member States and the Commission shall ensure that undertakings which are or have been subject to a procedure of recovery in accordance with paragraph 3 following the transfer of a productive activity within a Member State or to another Member State do not benefit from a contribution from the Funds’.