WRITTEN QUESTION E-6214/09 by Ramon Tremosa i Balcells (ALDE) to the Commission (11 December 2009) Subject: Spain, the only country in Europe where amateur radio antennae have to be installed by a professional, infringement of Directive 1999/5/EC It is a well-known fact that radio amateurs throughout the world play an important role in cases of emergency and natural disasters and in cultural, social and scientific activities in normal times. The International Telecommunication Union itself defines an amateur service as ‘a radiocommunication service for the purpose of self-training, intercommunication and technical investigations carried out by amateurs, that is, by duly authorised persons interested in radio technique solely with a personal aim and without pecuniary interest’. In Spain, the new Amateur Radio Regulations (Reglamento de Radioaficionados, Order ITC/1791/2006 of 5 June) state in Article 23.4 that ‘as a general rule, installations shall be performed by a telecommunications installer entered in the Register of Telecommunications Installation Companies’, which is contrary to the very spirit of experimentation that motivates the radio amateur. On top of that, installers are not prepared or trained for this type of installation work, nor do they have any economic or technical interest in it. Furthermore, the register of installation companies which emanates from Royal Decree 401/2003 of 4 April 2003 approving the rules governing common telecommunications infrastructures for access to telecommunications services inside buildings and the installation activity of telecommunications teams and systems makes absolutely no mention of amateur radio antennae. In the other European Union Member States, amateur radio antennae can be installed by radio amateurs themselves, subject to authorisation and inspection by the corresponding State bodies, as was the case in Spain before 2006. This measure is not helpful in any way, and actually continues to penalise the Spanish radio amateur community, which has seen a 50 % drop in numbers over the last 12 years because of policies of this type that are drawn up behind the backs of those concerned. In the light of the above, does the Commission not consider that the rules imposed by Spain infringe Directive 1999/5/EC OJ L 91, 7.4.1999, p. 10. , and in particular Articles 6 and 7 where it is stated that: ‘Member States may restrict the putting into service of radio equipment only for reasons related to the effective and appropriate use of the radio spectrum, avoidance of harmful interference or matters relating to public health’?