Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (11 February 2008) Article 18 of the EC Treaty stipulates that every citizen of the Union shall have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, subject to the limitations and conditions laid down in this Treaty and by the measures adopted to give it effect. The respective limitations and conditions are to be found in Directive 2004/38/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States OJ L 158, 30.4.2004. which came into force, on 30 April 2006. Article 24 of the directive enshrines the principle of the equal treatment of all Union citizens residing on the basis of the directive in the territory of the host Member State within the scope of the Treaty. It expressly extends the benefit of this right to family members of Union citizens who are not nationals of a Member State and who have the right of residence. The control of the correct implementation of the directive is an absolute priority for the Commission and it has opened a series of infringement procedures against Member States for non-communication of their national implementing measures. The directive contains no provisions obliging Member States to promote education for tolerance of migrant Community citizens, nor does it oblige Member States to adopt measures fostering the integration of such migrant citizens, both areas falling largely within Member State competence. However, one of the general objectives of the new Specific Programme ‘Fundamental Rights and Citizenship’ (Council Decision 2007/252/EC Council Decision 2007/252 of 19 April 2007 establishing for the period 2007‑13 the specific programme Fundamental rights and citizenship as part of the General programme Fundamental Rights and Justice, OJ L 110, 27.4.2007 ) is to promote the development of a European society based on respect for fundamental rights as recognised in Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union, including rights derived from citizenship of the Union. The Member States have the prime responsibility for education and training of their citizens. And as part of this responsibility it is for them to decide on the content and the delivery. The commonly accepted work programme ‘Education and Training 2010’, requests Member States to ensure that the learning of democratic values and democratic participation by all and to foster the cultivation of attitudes which are respectful of others, and reject any form of racism or prejudice. Values like equality, tolerance and solidarity are deeply embedded within Europe, its past, its present and in the process towards constructing its future. Education and Training play a key role in strengthening these values. Learning environments can create the opportunities and spaces for dialogue needed to increase understanding and acceptance of diversity; to transmit values, prevent racist behaviour and foster tolerance. The recommendation on Key competences for lifelong learning adopted in December 2006 provide the basis for the implementation of a key concept of values by