Answer given by Mr Barroso on behalf of the Commission (1 March 2006) Strong involvement of regional and local authorities in Member States will be necessary to build support for — and ensure proper implementation of — the new Lisbon growth and jobs partnership. The Commission has therefore called on Member States, where possible, to involve public authorities at national, regional and local level, according to their respective areas of competence. Active dialogue and partnership between all relevant bodies will help make national reform programmes as strong as possible, whilst promoting their ownership. On 25 January the President of the Commission and the Vice-President in charge of Enterprise and Industry presented to the Parliament the Commission’s first evaluations of the NRPs as part of the first annual progress report for discussion at the 2006 Spring European Council. Part of its assessment relates to the efforts made by governments to involve regional and local authorities when preparing NRPs, although it must of course be recognised that preparation time was fairly limited. Results from the survey carried-out by the Committee of the Regions on whether and how regions and cities participated in the preparation of the NRP provide interesting insights into this process and will be taken into account also in view of further action to be taken to reinforce the territorial approach of the strategy. One important element to consider in this context is how Member States intend to use Community Structural and Cohesion Funds to support the implementation of the programmes. During discussions on the national strategic reference frameworks, the Commission will urge Member States to forge strong links between the use of the Structural Funds and the priorities identified in the NRP (so as to ensure that Structural Funds are as much as possible used to support growth and jobs). The role of regions and local authorities will be particularly relevant in this respect; the exercise should certainly help strengthen the territorial focus of the NRP. Finally, the December 2005 European Council also agreed that as part of the Union's overall objective of promoting competitiveness and creating jobs, and of working towards meeting the objectives of the Lisbon agenda, minimum targets will be set for the proportion of expenditure under both the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives for measures which contribute directly to this end. For the 15 Member States of the Union before the enlargement of 1 May 2004, these targets will be 60 % for the convergence objective and 75 % for the regional competitiveness and employment objective, applied as an average over the entire period.