in contract would be difficult to succeed " (ES 3 Page 17. ). b.) Limitation period As outlined in ES 3 Pages 62 and 63. , legal action as described above is subject to certain limitation periods under the Section 2 of the Limitation Act 1980 : The limitation period for claims based on tort is six years from the date when the cause of action arose. This limitation period applies to claims under section 62 FSA and section 2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967. The cause of action arises where a policyholder first sustains loss. An action in negligence in common law (negligent advice or misstatement) is six years from when the cause of action accrued or, if later, three years from the date on which the plaintiff first had both the knowledge required for bringing an action for damages in respect of the relevant damage and a right to bring such an action. In relation to Equitable Life it is to be noted that, shortly after the Penrose Report was published, the Society sought extra time to prepare its response to certain complaints arising out of it. For this reason, on 10 May 2004, the FSA issued a waiver dispensing Equitable Life from the need to investigate complaints about the matters arising within the standard timescale applicable under FSA rules. A condition of this waiver was that Equitable Life provided “ a written undertaking that, if it seeks to rely on the Limitation Act 1980 as a defence to any claim by an eligible complainant whether in Court or Ombudsman proceedings, it will not count for the purpose of that Act any period within which the eligible complainant’s case has been subject to this direction ”. The FSA originally granted the waiver until 30 June 2004, and subsequently extended it to 30 September 2004. Although this meant in practice a prolongation, by some months, of the limitation period, the overwhelming majority of policyholders would by now be time barred under the Act. According to Mr SCAWEN (H3) all ELAS policyholders have been time barred since the end of 2006. c.) Court cases Civil legal action could be started in the county court or in the High Court, depending on the circumstances of the case. If the claim is for £15,000 or less, it must be started in the county court. If the case is a simple one, the county court will decide to use the small claims procedure and will allocate the case to the ‘small claims track’. In most cases, the court will not order solicitors’ costs to be paid by the losing party in a small claims case. If a claimant instructs a solicitor he/she will have to pay the costs. For this reason most claimants deal with a small claim without the help of a solicitor. If the value of a case is £5,000 or less, it will generally be allocated to the small claims track. Mr WEIR (H2) and Mr SCAWEN (H3) indicated that some policyholders have taken this choice and launched claims through the Small