on Human Rights Presentation of the EU Annual Report on Human Rights 2007 by the Portuguese Presidency 15:00 19:00 Brussels, PHS 1A2 Delegations Delegation for relations with the Maghreb countries and the Arab Maghreb Union (including Libya) This meeting will take place in the presence of H.E. Mr Ambassador of Morocco, who will give some information on the last elections in his country. A Discussion on the visit of a working group of the Maghreb delegation in Algeria, from 14 to 18 December 2007, will be also on the agenda of the meeting. 12:30 18:30 Delegation to the EU-Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia 4th Joint Parliamentary Committee - 26 to 27 November 2007 The 4th EP-Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Joint Parliamentary Committee meeting will take place in Brussels on 26-27 November. The two groups of legislators will participate in two joint working sessions over the two days. 15:00 18:30 Brussels, ASP 5E2 Public hearings Human rights in China in the run-up to the 2008 Olympics Subcommittee on Human Rights The Subcommittee on Human Rights is holding a hearing on Human rights in China in the run-up to the 2008 Olympics, which will be chaired by Hélène Flautre (Greens/EFA, FR), chair of the subcommittee. Speakers will include several prominent human rights campaigners, an official representative of the Chinese mission to the EU and MEPs Pál Schmitt (former Olympic fencing champion) and Dirk Sterckx (chair of EP delegation for relations with China). It is also hoped that the hearing will include a videoconference with cyber-dissident Hu Jia, who was one of the candidates for the 2007 Sakharov Prize. See draft programme below. Highlights of the hearing will be broadcast on Europe by Satellite on Monday evening. A number of documents on human rights in China and European Parliament positions on related topics are available on the subcommittee's website. List of main speakers: - Introductory remarks by Ms Hélène Flautre, Chair - Pál Schmitt (EPP-ED, HU), Member of International Olympic Committee, Olympic fencing champion, vice chair of - EP Committee on Culture and Education - Videoconference with Mr Hu Jia, nominee in 2007 for the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize for the Freedom of Thought (tbc) - Phelim Kine, Asia Researcher, Human Rights Watch, Hong Kong - Sharon Hom, Executive Director of 'Human Rights in China' (New York) - Vincent Metten, EU Policy Director, International Campaign for Tibet - Dirck Sterckx (ALDE, BE), Chair of EP Delegation for Relations with the People's Republic of China - A Representative of the Chinese mission to the EU 15:45 17:15 Brussels, PHS 1A02 (Anne Lindh room) Subcommittee website Human rights in Guatemala Subcommittee on Human Rights Hearing on human rights in Guatemala following the elections and presentation of the conclusions of the International Conference on the 10th anniversary of the Guatemala Peace Agreement. List of main speakers: - Introductory remarks by Hélène FLAUTRE (Greens/EFA, FR), Chair - Wolfgang Kreissl-Dörfer, Chief observer of the EUEOM to Guatemala - Emilio Menéndez del Valle, Head of EP EOM delegation - Antonio M. Cisneros de Alencar, Human Rights Officer from OHCHR (tbc)