European Regions (JASPERS); 12. Points out that a range of new financial instruments managed by the EIB and the EIF will have a multiplier effect on non-reimbursable aid, and is delighted that the initiative for Joint European Resources for Micro to Medium Enterprises (JEREMIE) has come into operation, since it could produce a multiplier effect of up to ten times the size of the Structural Fund budget through the operation of the EIF serving to turn subsidies into a range of financial products aimed at SMEs; 13. Considers that the new cooperation and financing arrangements must be evaluated carefully with a view to correcting any administrative obstacles that may be involved; 14. Points out to the EIB that its loans must not be a substitute, under conditions more advantageous to the intermediary financial institutions, for loans which in any event would have been granted by the private sector; 15. Calls on the Court of Auditors to ensure that the conditions governing the loans and guarantees involving EU budget resources granted by the EIB do not serve to enable certain privileged parties to benefit indirectly from unwarranted assistance when they could obtain financing on the market; 16. Calls on the EIB to conduct a detailed study on the real contribution of the EIB investment to regional development, once also analysed the effects of EU policies and to introduce appropriate indicators, as recommended by its own Operations Evaluation department; 17. Recommends that the EIB further increase the possibilities of access to its finance, above all for SMEs, by increasing the number of financial institutions with the appropriate expertise and lending capacities to support EU priorities , acting as intermediaries in each country, which at the same time would improve the conditions for the end recipients; 18. Recommends that in its next annual report, the EIB place special emphasis on its relationship with the banks which, at national level, specialise in granting loans to SMEs and recalls that good cooperation between the EIB and those banks can only be beneficial to the SMEs; 19. Considers that a combination of funds provided by the EIB with authorised State aid should be encouraged to benefit SMEs; Transparency and performance 20. Calls on the EIB to explain more clearly its evaluation criteria when selecting projects for funding and to submit an evaluation of its operations in terms of economic growth and employment; recommends that the EIB publish its information on the investment projects in which it is involved, to encourage private investors to participate in the possible financing of those projects; 21. Recommends that the EIB lay down more clear-cut criteria to govern the ultimate allocation of its global loans; and calls on the EIB to establish a transparent procedure for determining and assessing how the loans have been used by intermediary banks, in particular with a view to ascertaining whether the quality of EIB loans really benefits the end recipients; 22. Calls on the EIB to ensure that its operational standards are consistent with international standards and best practices; and to establish a transparent participation mechanism to