should not preclude Member States from establishing other linked contact points at regional or local level, reflecting the specific organisation of their healthcare system. The national contact points should be able to provide patients with relevant information on cross-border healthcare and to assist them. This should not include legal advice. ( 46 ) ▌Cooperation is required between providers, purchasers and regulators of different Member States at national, regional or local level in order to ensure safe, high-quality and efficient care across borders. This is particularly the case for cooperation in border regions, where cross-border provision of healthcare may be the most efficient way of organising healthcare for the local populations, but where achieving such cross-border provision on a sustained basis requires cooperation between the health systems of different Member States. Such cooperation may concern joint planning, mutual recognition or adaptation of procedures or standards, interoperability of respective national information and communication technology systems, practical mechanisms to ensure continuity of care or practical facilitation of cross-border provision of healthcare by health professionals on a temporary or occasional basis. ▌ ( 47 ) The Commission should encourage cooperation between the Member States in the areas set out in Chapter IV of this Directive and may, in accordance with Article 152(2) of the Treaty take, in close contact with the Member States, any useful initiative to facilitate and promote such cooperation. Particular attention should be given to the possible use of a European Grouping of Territorial Cooperation (EGTC). ( 48 ) Where medicinal products are authorised within the patient's Member State of affiliation in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67. ║ , including the future Directives on falsified medicinal products and pharmacovigilance, and have been prescribed in another Member State for an individual named patient, it should be in principle possible for such prescriptions to be recognised medically or in pharmacies and used in the patient's own Member State. The removal of regulatory and administrative barriers to such recognition is without prejudice to the need for appropriate agreement of the patients' treating physician or pharmacist in every individual case, if this is warranted by protection of human health and is necessary and proportionate to that objective. Such medical recognition should also be without prejudice to the decision of the Member State of affiliation regarding the inclusion of such medicinal products within the benefits covered by the social security system of affiliation and without prejudice to the validity of national pricing and payment rules . The implementation of the principle of recognition will be facilitated by the adoption of measures necessary for safeguarding the safety of a patient, and avoiding the misuse or confusion of medicinal products. ( 49 ) European reference networks should provide healthcare to all patients who have conditions requiring a particular concentration of resources or expertise, in order to provide affordable, high-quality and cost-effective care and could also be focal points for medical training and