regulation cannot be satisfactorily carried out by 27 or more individual national agencies. Amendment 114 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 18b Non-profit-making organisation For the purposes of implementing this Regulation, a new, independent non-profit-making organisation shall be established to issue credit ratings. Th at organisation sh all have a start-up capital of EUR 200 million , which shall be provided, on a pro rata basis, from the budget of the European Union , the European finance industry and by rated entities. The organisation shall receive additional, current revenue in the form of charges for issued ratings to be paid by the customer or the applicant. The organisation shall operate in such a way as to cover its costs . The Commission shall put forward a corresponding proposal. Justification A non-profit-making organisation with sufficient human and financial resources is necessary, given that the cross-border tasks required by the regulation cannot be satisfactorily carried out by 27 or more individual national agencies. Amendment 115 Proposal for a regulation Article 19 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Competent authorities shall be adequately staffed in order to be able to apply this Regulation. 2. Competent authorities shall be staffed in sufficient capacity and expertise in order to be able to apply this Regulation. Justification In order to allow for adequate supervision, national supervisory bodies need to be staffed with enough personnel that have the necessary expertise to judge and understand financial markets. Amendment 116 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. In carrying out their duties under this Regulation competent authorities of Member States shall not interfere with the content of credit ratings. 1. In carrying out their duties under this Regulation neither competent authorities of Member States nor Member States shall interfere with the content of credit ratings or the methodologies by which a credit rating agency determines credit ratings . Justification Credit rating agencies should perform their rating task without interference from supervisory bodies or the government. This also includes methodologies. Amendment 117 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 3 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (a) have access to any document in any form and to receive or take a copy thereof; (a) have access to any document in any form and to receive or take a copy thereof for use in their supervisory capacity ; Amendment 118 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 3 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) demand information from any person and if necessary to summon and question a person with a view to obtaining information; (b) demand information from any person and if necessary to summon and question a person with a view to obtaining information for use in their supervisory capacity ; Amendment 119 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment When exercising th e powers set out in