Question for written answer E-000537/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Judith Sargentini (Verts/ALE) (2 February 2011) Subject: Possible incompatibility of policy proposals by the Netherlands Minister for Immigration and Asylum with European legislation On 11 January 2011 the Netherlands Minister for Immigration and Asylum sent a letter 2010-11 session, document 19637 no. 1389 (https://zoek.officielebekendmakingen.nl/zoeken/parlementaire_documenten). to the Lower House of the States‑General setting out his intention to introduce a policy under which, in some cases, following a repeat application for asylum, the decision on a request for interim measures may not be awaited in the Netherlands, but must be awaited in the country of origin. 1. Is the Commission aware of the existence of this letter and the policy proposal by the Netherlands Government set out in it? 2. Does the Commission consider that the principle of ‘non-refoulement’, as enshrined inter alia in Article 78 of the TFEU, forms the essential basis for the package of directives and regulations which constitute the common European asylum policy? And does it consider that not only the Union itself, but also the individual Member States, have not just a moral duty, but also a legal obligation, to comply with this principle? If not, could the Commission explain in what light the principle of ‘non-refoulement’ should be viewed within the context of the international obligations of the Union and of the individual Member States and the common European asylum policy? 3. Could the Commission indicate whether the policy under which an asylum‑seeker is sent back to the country of origin to await the decision on the granting of his/her asylum application is contrary to the principle of ‘non-refoulement’, irrespective of whether it relates to a ruling on a repeat application which is not final in law? 4. Does the Commission intend to investigate whether the policy proposals by the Netherlands Minister for Immigration and Asylum may constitute a violation of the acquis communautaire , and in particular of the obligations relating to compliance with the principle of ‘non-refoulement’? If not, could the Commission indicate why it does not consider it necessary to investigate this?