the global context in which it happens. It can have a positive impact on pluralism, as for example when it enables the broadcasting area of the media to be extended or prevents their disappearance; it can have a negative impact if the concentration leads to the disappearance of newspaper titles or broadcasting channels; 3. Considers that the Commission must promote activities and economic accompanying measures to foster the creation and development of businesses in the information media sector at European level, in order to promote a better supply of information; 4. Considers, in this connection, that such initiatives should in particular target the candidate countries which have not yet reached the existing Member States’ level of media pluralism; 5. Calls on the Commission, in the context of any Community initiatives it launches in this sector, to focus appropriate financial support on regional and local media, which cannot compete with the large-scale national and international networks, since they lack adequate resources; preventing their disappearance will in fact guarantee democratic pluralism; 6. Considers that the Commission, in accordance with the competences assigned to the EU by the Treaties, must intervene if the effects of national regulations introduced to maintain pluralism cause distortions in the workings of the internal market and prove contrary to current Community competition legislation; 7. Considers that Commission action should in any event be based on the principle of proportionality laid down in the last paragraph of Article 5 (formerly 3b) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which stipulates that Community action should not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Treaty; 8. Considers that the future development of computer systems and the Internet, which are the latest example of pluralism and are the most advanced and modern expression of information, must in any event ensure that they comply, as far as access to their services is concerned, with the regulations on the subject issued by the Member State of the final recipient of the information; 9. Considers that, since the creation of new services and the development of existing ones will extend the global information market and thus offer further opportunities for economic growth and employment, the Commission should draw up a new Green Paper in order to provide as much information as possible and make appropriate assessments of the overall situation in the information sector in the Member States and in the enlarged European Union; 10. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council of the European Union and the Economic and Social Committee.