of the new procedure. Part one Question 1 (Liam Aylward): Climate change H-1119/05 . Hans Winkler (President-in-Office of the Council) answered the question and supplementaries by Liam Aylward , Paul Rübig and Richard Seeber . Question 2 had been withdrawn. Question 3 (Ursula Stenzel): Coordination between organisations (EU, Council of Europe and OSCE) and human rights compliance in the fight against terrorism H-1165/05 . Hans Winkler answered the question and supplementaries by Ursula Stenzel , David Martin and Reinhard Rack . Question 4 (Diamanto Manolakou): Illegal abduction and arrest of Pakistanis living in Greece H-1178/05 . Hans Winkler answered the question and supplementaries by Athanasios Pafilis (deputising for the author) and Dimitrios Papadimoulis . Part two Question 5 (Manuel Medina Ortega): Barcelona Euro-Mediterranean Conference H-1110/05 . Hans Winkler answered the question and supplementaries by Manuel Medina Ortega and David Martin . Question 6 (Bernd Posselt): Status of Kosovo H-1126/05 . Question 7 (Dimitrios Papadimoulis): Settlement of the status of Kosovo H-1152/05 . Question 8 (Othmar Karas): West Balkans / Kosovo H-1177/05 . Hans Winkler answered the questions and supplementaries by Bernd Posselt , Dimitrios Papadimoulis and Othmar Karas . Question 9 (John Bowis): Persecution and harassment of Christians H-1149/05 . Hans Winkler answered the question and supplementaries by John Bowis , Paul Rübig , James Hugh Allister and Bernd Posselt . Question 10 would not be taken as the subject to which it referred was already on the agenda of the part-session. Question 11 (Inger Segelström): Colombia H-1159/05 . Hans Winkler answered the question and supplementaries by Inger Segelström and Paul Rübig . Question 12 lapsed as its author was absent. Question 13 (Athanasios Pafilis): Attempt to condemn communism H-1175/05 . Hans Winkler answered the question and supplementaries by Athanasios Pafilis and Paul Rübig . Questions which had not been answered for lack of time would receive written answers (see annex to the Verbatim Report of Proceedings) . Council Question Time closed. (The sitting was suspended at 18.55 and resumed at 21.00.) IN THE CHAIR: Antonios TRAKATELLIS Vice-President 12 European Neighbourhood Policy (debate) Report on the European Neighbourhood Policy [ 2004/2166(INI) ] - Committee on Foreign Affairs. Rapporteur: Charles Tannock ( A6-0399/2005 ) Charles Tannock introduced the report. Benita Ferrero-Waldner (Member of the Commission) spoke. The following spoke: Elmar Brok , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Pasqualina Napoletano , on behalf of the PSE Group, Paavo Väyrynen , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Marie Anne Isler Béguin , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Erik Meijer , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Bastiaan Belder , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Konrad Szymański , on behalf of the UEN Group, Ryszard Czarnecki , Non-attached Member, Paweł Bartłomiej Piskorski , Pierre Schapira , Diana Wallis , Chairwoman of the Delegation for relations with Switzerland, Iceland and Norway and to the European Economic Area (EEA) Joint Parliamentary Committee, Cem Özdemir , Esko Seppänen , Gerard Batten , Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis , Frank Vanhecke , Francisco José Millán Mon , Panagiotis Beglitis , Cecilia Malmström , Hélène Flautre , Irena Belohorská ,