WRITTEN QUESTION E-0828/07 by Willy Meyer Pleite (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (20 February 2007) Subject: Possible infringement of Directive 2000/60/EC in the Serranía de Ronda (Malaga, Spain) A major complex by the name of ‘Los Merinos’ is under construction in the Serranía de Ronda (Malaga, Spain), consisting of two golf courses and one practice course, three five-star hotels, 800 luxury villas, a horse-riding centre, a high-level school, an old people's home and a sports centre. There are also plans to sell 442 plots of land with an average surface area of 7 500 square metres each. The whole project is located in a holm oak dehesa. It is also an area of great ecological value, all of which is a protected Unesco biosphere reserve (Sierra de las Nieves and surroundings). The area plays an important hydro-geological role as the source of water for neighbouring municipalities, since its subsoil contains two major aquifers (the Miocene detritic Ronda aquifer and the Jurassic limestone Sierra de los Merinos-Borbollón-Blanquilla aquifer). Although the Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1 . stipulates that groundwater management, characterisation and remediation projects must include criteria on water resource sustainability and protection, the projects in question and the documents approving them fail to provide for any measures aimed at protecting the aquifers. The Andalusia Regional Government's Department of the Environment has given instructions to suspend the work on Los Merinos, for various reasons, including the fact that the agency Cuenca Mediterranea had already refused to allow water to be extracted from the nearby aquifers owing to the excessive demand for water arising from the project. Despite the order to suspend the work, this is still continuing. It is alarming that a region such as Andalusia with a limited and intermittent supply of water should be promoting golf courses and unregulated urbanisation as a basis for tourism. In the light of this serious threat to an area of great ecological value which is a biosphere reserve, can the Commission state: 1. whether it is aware of this major construction project; 2. whether it will ask the competent Spanish authorities for information in the form of statistics on the Los Merinos complex; 3. what measures it will adopt to enforce Community legislation in the case in point?