of always keeping reserves low and returning to its members more money than other companies. During the 1950s, Equitable began selling so-called GAR See Glossary in Annex for explanation of technical terminology. (“guaranteed annuity rate”) policies alongside its other pension products. GARs guarantee investors a minimum annuity rate when they retire. It can be argued that the company's troubles start here: a guaranteed pension for life means predicting how long people will live and the level of interest rates for up to 40 years into the future. Equitable did not correctly predict the increase in life expectancy of the general population nor the historical fall in interest rates; thus, a time-bomb started ticking the moment GARs were introduced, with the firm consistently under-reserving for the guaranteed annuities throughout the whole period and creating an ever-increasing asset shortfall. Despite experiencing a period of rapid growth in the 1990's based on the long bull market of that decade, as interest rates begin to fall it became increasingly expensive for ELS to honour its policies. Throughout this period, the ELS management still continued to devise innovative products that continued to attract new policyholders, most notably a new type of with-profits fund, where part of the benefits are guaranteed but the final bonus depends on future market performance. However, as the expansion stopped, the firm realized the extent of its asset shortfall and decided to pay newly retired people less than the guaranteed amount: in 1994, ELS announced plans to cut the size of the final bonuses paid to its 90,000 GAR policyholders, which was immediately challenged in court by some of the policyholders affected. At the same time, the Society's with-profits business came under close scrutiny in the press. After a long legal battle, with subsequent appeals from both sides, the UK House of Lords ruled in 2000 that the Society's approach was inappropriate and that it must meet its obligations to its GAR policyholders. As a result, the already existing asset shortfall situation worsened (£1.5 billion) and the company decided to put itself up for sale. However, initial potential purchasers withdrew at the last minute. On 8 December 2000 the Society closed its doors to new business and a new Board was appointed. In 2001, the new Board cancelled interim bonuses and cut all (£4 billion) pension policy values by 16% (14% for life policies). Before the end of 2001, the new Board further proposed a compromise scheme to policyholders to change the status of GAR and non-GAR investments, a scheme which was sanctioned by the UK High Court on 8 February 2002. In the face of all these developments, several investigations at the UK level started one after the other: in March 2001 the House of Commons Treasury Select Committee published its 'Equitable Life and the Life Assurance Industry: an Interim Report'; in August 2001 Lord Penrose started his wide-ranging investigation; in September 2001 the Corley Report into Equitable Life was published; in October 2001 the Baird Report into regulatory handling of Equitable Life was published. In April 2002 the Society tried to