the Internet in the knowledge society, the so-called "digital divide", which often affects young people, the disabled and elderly , and social categories who are already victims of other forms of exclusion. (10) Close attention needs to be paid to the education and in-service training of teachers so that they are able to use the Internet and ICT in the classroom in a critical and educationally responsible manner. (11) Close attention should be paid to gender differences in the use of e-learning and the promotion of equal opportunities in this field. 12) e-learning has the potential to help the Union respond to the challenges of the knowledge society, to improve the quality of learning, to facilitate access to learning resources, to address special needs, and to bring about more effective and efficient learning and training at the workplace, in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises. (13) The need for a European dimension in higher education was identified in the Bologna Declaration, signed by 29 European Ministers for Education on 19 June 1999, together with the importance of developing an e-learning dimension in this context. (14) The European Union should pay close attention to the effective promotion of virtual higher education campuses to complement activities in mobility programmes within the European Union and with third countries. (15) There is a need to reinforce and complement existing instruments and to consider the role of e Learning also in the context of the preparation of the new generation of instruments in the field of education and training. (16) In order to reinforce the added value of Community action it is necessary to ensure coherence and complementarity between the actions implemented in the framework of this Decision and other relevant Community policies, instruments and actions, in particular the Information Society Technologies thematic priority of the sixth framework programme for research established by Decision No 1513/2002/EC Decision No 1513/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 concerning the sixth framework programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities, contribution to the creation of the European Research Area and to innovation (2002 to 2006), (OJ L 232, 29.8.2002, p. 1). . (17) The candidate countries for accession to the European Union and EEA-EFTA states should be able to participate in the e Learning programme. Experts and educational institutions from other third countries should be able to participate in the exchange of experience in the framework of existing cooperation with these third countries. (18) The e Learning programme should be regularly monitored and evaluated in cooperation between the Commission and the Member States in order to allow for readjustments, particularly in the priorities for implementing the measures. The evaluation should include an external evaluation to be conducted by independent, impartial bodies. (19) Since the objective of the proposed action, namely the promotion of European cooperation to improve the quality and accessibility of education and training by an effective use of e-learning, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore by reason of the transnational dimension of the