Answer given by Mr Hahn on behalf of the Commission (20 July 2010) The Commission is fully aware of the recent flood disasters in Central Europe and has been monitoring them closely. Poland and Hungary activated the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, which facilitates the deployment and coordination of civil protection assistance in the response to major emergencies. The EU response for Poland was swift and generous, with a total of 55 pumps, 22 expert teams and 300 rescuers deployed by eight European countries. A multinational module developed by Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania with funding from the Preparatory Action for an EU Rapid Response Capability was also deployed. Hungary's request for sand-bags triggered a positive response from nine Participating States, with over 3.3 million sand-bags delivered within a few days. More recently, on 2 July 2010, Romania activated the Mechanism for assistance in addressing the severe floods that the country is currently facing. All of this assistance was actively coordinated by the EC Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC). As regards financial assistance for disaster recovery through the EU Solidarity Fund, the Commission is in close contact with the responsible national authorities of Poland and the other affected countries that have all announced their intention to apply for aid. In all cases the Commission has provided full information and documentation on the conditions and procedures for activating this instrument. It has offered its continued assistance and guidance during the preparation phase of the application which must be submitted within 10 weeks following the start of the disaster. A technical meeting with the Polish authorities has been scheduled for mid‑July. Once the applications have been received the Commission will assess them as quickly as possible and — if the conditions set by the regulation for mobilising the Fund are found to be met — propose an amount of aid. Aid could be paid out as soon as the Parliament and Council have approved the required budgetary appropriations and an agreement for the use of the grant has been concluded with the beneficiary countries. In addition an amount of EUR 832 million is earmarked for risk prevention in the Polish regional and national programmes. The supported measures range form soft measures such as preparation of water management plans and plans for anti flood actions to heavy infrastructure of national scale (modernisation of flood and retention basins). Two applications for large water retention are expected to be submitted to the Commission by end of this year. Finally, following a decision taken by the Coordination Committee National Strategic Reference Framework in its meeting on 25 June 2010 an additional amount of EUR 50 million coming from the technical adjustment adopted on April 2010 will be earmarked for reconstruction of municipal infrastructure damaged by the floods.