complainant to apply to another authority. Article 4 Inquiries into admissible complaints 4.1 The Ombudsman decides whether there are sufficient grounds to justify making inquiries into an admissible complaint. 4.2 If he does not find sufficient grounds to justify making inquiries, the Ombudsman closes the file on the complaint and informs the complainant accordingly. 4.3 If the Ombudsman finds sufficient grounds to justify making inquiries, he informs the complainant and the institution concerned. He transmits a copy of the complaint to the institution concerned and invites it to submit an opinion within a specified time that is normally no more than three months. The invitation to the institution concerned may specify particular aspects of the complaint, or specific issues, to which the opinion should be addressed. 4.4 The Ombudsman sends the opinion of the institution concerned to the complainant. The complainant has the opportunity to submit observations to the Ombudsman, within a specified time that is normally no more than one month. 4.5 After considering the opinion and any observations made by the complainant, the Ombudsman may either decide to close the case with a reasoned decision or to continue his inquiries. He informs the complainant and the institution concerned. Article 5 Powers of investigation 5.1 Subject to the conditions laid down in the Statute, the Ombudsman may require Community institutions and bodies and the authorities of Member States to supply, within a reasonable time, information or documents for the purposes of an inquiry. 5.2 The Ombudsman may inspect the file of the Community institution concerned in order to verify the accuracy and completeness of its replies. The Ombudsman may take copies of the whole file or of specific documents contained in the file. The Ombudsman informs the complainant that an inspection has taken place. 5.3 The Ombudsman may require officials or other servants of Community institutions or bodies to give evidence under the conditions laid down in the Statute. 5.4 The Ombudsman may request Community institutions and bodies to make arrangements for him to pursue his inquiries on the spot. 5.5 The Ombudsman may commission such studies or expert reports, as he considers necessary to the success of an inquiry. Article 6 Friendly solutions 6.1 If the Ombudsman finds maladministration, as far as possible he co-operates with the institution concerned in seeking a friendly solution to eliminate it and to satisfy the complainant. 6.2 If the Ombudsman considers that such cooperation has been successful, he closes the case with a reasoned decision. He informs the complainant and the institution concerned of the decision. 6.3 If the Ombudsman considers that a friendly solution is not possible, or that the search for a friendly solution has been unsuccessful, he either closes the case with a reasoned decision that may include a critical remark or makes a report with draft recommendations. Article 7 Critical remarks 7.1 The Ombudsman makes a critical remark if he considers: (a) that it is no longer possible for the institution concerned to eliminate the instance of maladministration and (b) that the instance of maladministration has no general implications. 7.2