the rapid alert system for food and feed products established by this Regulation , under the responsibility of the Commission . Amendment 95 Article 22, point (j) (j) to provide scientific and technical assistance, when requested to do so by the Commission, with a view to improving cooperation between the Community, European Union applicant countries, international organisations and third countries, in the fields within its mission; (j) to provide scientific and technical assistance, when requested to do so by the Commission or the European Parliament , with a view to improving cooperation between the Community, candidate countries, international organisations and third countries, in the fields within its mission; Amendment 96 Article 22, point (k) (k) to provide, when requested to do so by the Commission, assistance concerning communication on health-policy related nutritional issues ; (k) to provide, when requested to do so by the Commission, assistance concerning communication on the nutritional implications of health and food safety, taking due account of the diversity of eating habits within the European Union ; Amendment 97 Article 22, point (k a) (new) (ka) to determine, for substances used in food preparations, monitoring thresholds to which there shall be no exceptions; Amendment 98 Article 22, point (m) (m) to express its own conclusions and orientations on matters within its mission; (m) to express independently its own conclusions and guidelines on matters within its mission and on this basis to make recommendations for the risk managers ; Amendment 99 Article 22, point (m a) (new) (ma) to promote, within the limits of its mandate, a consistent Community position in any relations with relevant international organisations in the food safety sector, including the Codex alimentarius, the WHO and the FAO; Amendment 213 Article 24, paragraph 1 1. The Management Board shall be composed of four representatives appointed by the European Parliament, four representatives appointed by the Council, four representatives appointed by the Commission and four representatives of consumers and industry designated by the Commission . 1. The Management Board shall be composed of twelve representatives proposed by the Commission following a process of open application through the European institutions, including people with practical experience of agriculture, the food industry, small firms and consumer groups. Amendment 102 Article 24, paragraph 2 2. Representatives may be replaced by alternates, appointed at the same time. Their term of office shall be four years, and may be renewed once. 2. The term of office of representatives shall be four years, and may be renewed once. Amendment 103 Article 24, paragraph 7, subparagraph 1 7. Before 31 January each year, the Management Board shall adopt the Authority's programme of work for the coming year. It shall also adopt a revisable multi-annual programme. The Management Board shall ensure that these programmes are consistent with the Commission's legislative and policy priorities in the area of food safety. 7. Before 31 January each year, the Management Board shall adopt the Authority's programme of work for the coming year. It shall also adopt a revisable multi-annual programme. The Management Board shall ensure that these programmes are consistent