Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (3 November 2008) In the European Action Plan for organic food and farming COM(2004)415 final. , which lays down the basis for policy development in the organic farming sector, the Agriculture ministers of the European Union agreed to the following principle: ‘In designing a global policy concept for organic farming, the dual societal role of organic farming should be recognised. 1. Organic food marketing, responding to the concerns of some consumers, and should therefore be rewarded by the markets and hence be financed by the consumers. The development of organic farming will, in this respect, be governed by market rules. 2. Organic land management is known to deliver public goods, primarily environmental, but also rural development benefits and in certain respects may also result in improved animal welfare. Seen from this angle, the development of organic farming should be driven by society.’ Firstly, to meet point 1 of the mentioned principle the Commission recently launched an EU‑wide promotion campaign on organic food and farming with the intention to contribute to better information and raising consumer awareness and furthermore to develop the market demand. Secondly, Action 6 of the action plan acknowledges the importance of organic farming for its positive contribution to the environment. The Commission strongly recommends Member States to make full use within their rural development programmes of the instruments available to support organic farming. In the current programming period of 2007 to 2013 organic farming may be supported through several measures, in particular in the field of agri-environmental measures. It is up to the Member States to decide how to make use of this programme and how to dedicate the financial support to certain measures. In line with this principle Greek authorities can fix the amounts paid per hectare for conversion and maintenance of organic farming in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 OJ L 277, 20.9.2005. . Duly justified adaptations and adjustments within the national programme are possible as to meet the actual needs of the sector. In addition, under the single CMO incorporating the fruit and vegetables sector (Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 OJ L 299, 16.11.2007. ) Member States may also include other measures in favour of organic farming in the National Framework for environmental actions. Moreover, a Community financing of up to 60 % of the operational programme is foreseen, where it covers solely specific support for organic farming.