19.1.2010 B7-0044/2010 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure on Philippines Fiorello Provera , Lorenzo Fontana , Rolandas Paksas , Juozas Imbrasas on behalf of the EFD Group PE432.892v01-00 B7‑0044/2010 European Parliament resolution on Philippines The European Parliament , – having regard to the Presidency statement of 25 November 2009 on the killings in Maguindanao, Philippines, – having regard its previous resolutions on the Philippines, – having regard to the Commission's Country Strategy Paper 2007-2013 for the Philippines, the programme of support to the Peace Process under the Stability Instrument and the negotiations for a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and the Philippines, – having regard to the EU-ASEAN Agreement of 1980, – having regard to Rule 122 of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas fifty-seven people were killed in a politically motivated attack whilst walking to file nomination papers for a local politician called Ismael Mangudadatu, for next year's elections in Maguindanao; whereas the victims include Mr Mangudadatu's wife, his two sisters and several key supporters, as well as at least 18 journalists who were travelling with them to witness his registration as an election candidate, B. whereas martial law was declared in Maguindanao from 4 to 12 December 2009, C. whereas hundreds of activists, trade unionists, journalists and religious leaders in the Philippines have been killed or abducted since 2001 and the Maguindanao massacre is the worst politically motivated violence in recent Philippine history, D. whereas the doubts remain about the independence of the judiciary in the Philippines, while lawyers and judges are also subject to harassment and killings; whereas witness vulnerability makes it sometimes impossible to effectively investigate criminal offences and prosecute those responsible for them, E. whereas in order to put an end to political violence in the Philippines it is necessary to address the economic, social and cultural root causes of violence in the Archipelago State, 1. Expresses its solidarity with the victims and their families and reiterates its concern for the climate of instability and violence in the country; 2. Reaffirms its commitment to the promotion of democracy and the rule of law as the basis for conflict resolutions and lasting stability in the country; 9. Expresses its grave concern at the hundreds of cases of extrajudicial killings of political activists and journalists that have occurred in recent years in the Philippines; 10. Reiterates its request to the Philippine authorities to allow the UN special bodies dealing with human rights protection unrestricted access to the country; urges, also, the authorities to swiftly adopt and implement laws to incorporate the international human rights instruments (e.g. against torture and enforced disappearances) which have been ratified into national law; 11. Calls on the Council and the Commission to ensure that the EU's financial assistance towards economic development in the Philippines is accompanied by scrutiny on possible cases of corruption and violations of economic, environmental, social and cultural rights;