is based on the novel of the same name by J. K. Rowling.", " The film is the first instalment in the long-running \"Harry Potter\" film series, and was written by Steve Kloves and produced by David Heyman.", " Its story follows Harry Potter's first year at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry as he discovers that he is a famous wizard and begins his education.", " The film stars Daniel Radcliffe as Harry Potter, with Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley, and Emma Watson as Hermione Granger." ] ], [ "Gandugali Kumara Rama", [ "Gandugali Kumara Rama is a 2006 Indian biographical historical drama film based on the life of Kumara Rama (1290 AD – 1320 AD), who is considered to be the warrior prince prior to the establishment of the Vijayanagara Empire.", " Directed by H. R. Bhargava and produced by Anitha Pattabhiram, the film threads the path of a novel written by Su.", " Rudramurthy Shastry.", " The film featured Shivarajkumar as the lead in dual roles along with Rambha, Laya and Anitha in pivotal roles.", " The film was declared an average grosser by box office report.", " It was during the filming of this movie that Shivrajkumar's father and veteran actor Dr Rajkumar died." ] ], [ "Top Dog (2014 film)", [ "Top Dog is a crime drama film based on the novel written by Dougie Brimson who also penned the screenplay.", " Directed by Martin Kemp it starred Leo Gregory, Vincent Regan and Ricci Harnett." ] ], [ "The Tales of Beatrix Potter", [ "The Tales of Beatrix Potter (US title: \"Peter Rabbit and Tales of Beatrix Potter\") is a 1971 ballet film based on the children's stories of English author and illustrator Beatrix Potter.", " The film was directed by Reginald Mills, choreographed by Sir Frederick Ashton (who danced the role of Mrs. Tiggy-Winkle), and featured dancers from the Royal Ballet.", " The musical score was arranged by John Lanchbery from various sources, such as the operas of Michael Balfe and of Sir Arthur Sullivan, and performed by the Orchestra of the Royal Opera House.", " It was designed and co-written by Christine Edzard." ] ], [ "White Noise (Linkin Park song)", [ "White Noise is a song by American rock band Linkin Park, which was released on October 17, 2014 through Warner Bros.", " Records and Machine Shop Records.", " The song was released in the promotion of a 2014 American drama film based on a novel written by Eric Bogosian named as \"Mall\".", " The song is one of the four unreleased demos by the band included in the original motion picture soundtrack to the same name of the film." ] ], [ "Cheers for Miss Bishop", [ "Cheers for Miss Bishop is a 1941 drama film based on the novel \"Miss Bishop\" by Bess Streeter Aldrich.", " It was directed by Tay Garnett and stars Martha Scott in the title role.", " The other cast members include William Gargan, Edmund Gwenn, Sterling Holloway, Dorothy Peterson, Marsha Hunt, Don Douglas, and Sidney Blackmer.", "