Parliament and Council regulation on aid for poverty diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis) in developing countries ( COM(2002) 109 – C5-0100/2002 – 2002/0051(COD)) Doc.: A5-0394/2002 Procedure : Codecision procedure (1st reading) Debate : 30.01.2003 Poverty-related diseases weigh heavily on development policies, with much good work in recent years being wiped out by the spread of AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. In response to this situation, Parliament's Development Committee is calling for a proactive Community policy to combat these diseases. A draft resolution by Anders WIJKMAN (EPP-ED, S) backs a Commission proposal for a regulation which provides for a global approach to fighting these illnesses. Given the urgency of the situation, MEPs are hoping that the regulation can be adopted swiftly and if possible at first reading (under the co-decision procedure). However, budgetary questions are the main stumbling block. Mr Wijkman is asking for far higher funding. An increase is needed so that Community policies to combat these diseases are properly carried out and also to enable the EU to make a major contribution to the Global Fund to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. The other proposed amendments stress that prevention, care and treatment are interdependent. A co-ordinated approach is needed between co-operation, research and health policies to fight the diseases effectively. Health care systems in developing countries will also have to be improved. Apart from the cost of medicines, the question of whether they even exist often arises. Only 10% of research activity is devoted to the diseases which account for 90% of the world's ailments. MEPs in the committee believe that, where the market fails to generate solutions, public research should be stimulated and incentives found to encourage the private sector to invest in these areas. The committee also wants to make key medicines more affordable, which would mean producing them locally. The Doha declaration on TRIPS and Public Health allows this under certain conditions even if the product is under licence. In addition, the committee stresses the right of members of the WTO to use the flexibility allowed by TRIPS to protect public health and to ensure access to medicines to all. Budgetary Control EU budget – concern over money not spent Joe McCARTIN (EPP-ED, Connacht/Ulster ) Report on the action taken by the Commission on the observations contained in the resolution accompanying the decision giving discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 2000 financial year (Commission) ( COM(2002) 696 - C5-0610/2002 - 2002/2189(DEC)) Doc.: A5-0002/2003 Procedure : Discharge procedure Debate : 29.01.2003 Reporting for the Budgetary Control Committee, Joe McCARTIN (EPP-ED, Connacht/Ulster) is expressing concern about the continuation in the year 2001 of unspent funds in the EU’s €94bn budget. The percentage amounts to 10%, some 2% up on the figure for the year 2000 and is mainly found in regional fund spending affected by complex bureaucratic procedures. Mr McCartin points out that some 80% of the budget is managed by the Member States and recognises efforts being made by the Commission to improve management procedures. Mr McCartin’s draft resolution is