WRITTEN QUESTION E-1934/04 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (8 September 2004) Subject: Disruption of Macedonia's future EU membership as a result of repeal of the decentralisation law guaranteeing equality for the Albanian-speaking community 1. Is the Commission taking account of the possibility that the decentralisation law in the former Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, which guarantees equality for the large Albanian-speaking community by reinstating, strengthening and safeguarding the use of the Albanian language in education and the administration, may be rejected by a majority of the electorate in a referendum, which is being called for by supporters of a single-language Macedonia, such as the VMRO opposition party and the Macedonian World Congress? 2. Is the Commission aware that the pace of economic development is picking up in the towns of Tetovo and Gostivar, as can be seen from the large number of new houses and commercial properties being built, and stands favourable comparison with the rest of the country, which means that in a situation of peace and reconciliation the Albanian-speaking community in the North West, which traditionally lagged behind in its development, is now making up the gap and halting further emigration from the area? 3. What measures is the Commission taking to ensure that the legislation on the equal status of the two main communities in Macedonia, painstakingly achieved through the EU's efforts, is maintained? 4. What implications would the abolition of this law have for the financial contributions made by the EU towards preparing for Macedonia's possible accession to the EU and for the financial support allocated to promoting stability in the Balkans? 5. What consequences would abolition of the decentralisation law have on the future of the Macedonian Government's plans for membership of the European Union? 6. Does the Commission take the view that Macedonia cannot be admitted to the EU until a statutory agreement is reached between the two main communities offering guarantees of their lasting peaceful coexistence as well as recognition of their enduring differences of language and culture? 7. Is the Commission prepared to make the general public in Macedonia aware of its position on EU membership well before any referendum?