measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision are management measures within the meaning of Article 2 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission , they should be adopted by use of the management procedure provided for in Article 4 of this Decision . (9) The measures to be taken for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission. (Amendment 21) Recital 11a (new) (11a) The Commission will ensure that implementation of the programme is coordinated with that of the Fifth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, the European research area and with any other measure already launched by the Commission and any other programmes and actions for enterprises subsequently submitted. The Commission's aim is to make it easier for enterprises to take part in and benefit from these programmes. (Amendment 22) Recital 11b (new) (11b) On the basis of the special characteristics and needs of small and micro-enterprises and the craft sector, the multiannual programme will make provision for actions specially tailored for them. (Amendment 23) Recital 11c (new) (11c) The Commission's Directorate-General for Enterprise must focus its work on SMEs and craft enterprises. The Commission should also set up an observatory to monitor whether European legislation serves the needs of SMEs. (Amendment 24) Recital 11d (new) (11d) Regarding the internal market, the Commission should examine the possible advantages and added value which could accrue to Enterprise Europe through the drafting of a European Contract Law. (Amendment 25) Recital 14a (new) (14a) Networks and business support services, such as chambers of commerce and trade associations, and the EICs must coordinate their activities. They must, like the Member States, take part in the BEST (Business Environment Simplification Taskforce) procedure. In order to ensure that a representative picture is obtained in the Member States, regional as well as national bodies need to be involved. The statistical surveys needed for the multiannual programme must not result in an additional burden on SMEs and craft enterprises. (Amendment 26) Recital 14b (new) (14b) It must be ensured that there is more transparency and more electronic communication between the public authorities and the SME sector. (Amendment 27) Recital 14c (new) (14c) In the guidelines for the 2001 budget procedure, Parliament stressed the need to ensure the continuity of significant funding in favour of employment, and called on the Commission to concentrate further initiatives on measures to integrate micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the information society in order to strengthen their competitiveness in an international environment. (Amendment 28) Recital 14d (new) (14d) Account must be taken of the approaching enlargement. Effective implementation of the acquis is necessary to ensure that enlargement produces a win-win situation for Member States and applicant countries alike. (Amendment 29) Recital 14e (new) (14e) Intermediate organisations representing SMEs and craft enterprises are able in the same way as chambers of commerce or