Text proposed by the Council Amendment Article 9a Rights of the data subject 1. A data subject shall be informed of the fact that personal data concerning him or her are being processed. The provision of that information shall be delayed when necessary in order not to hamper the purposes for which the data are being processed. 2. A data subject shall have the right to obtain without undue delay the information as to which data are being processed in a language which he or she understands, as well as to rectify and, where appropriate, erase data processed in breach of the principles referred to in Article 9(-1). 3. The information referred to in paragraph 1 may be refused or delayed if strictly necessary in order: (a) to protect security and public order; (b) to prevent a crime; (c) not to hamper the investigation and prosecution of criminal offences; (d) to protect the rights and guarantees of third parties. Amendment 19 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 11 – paragraph 1 – point a – point iv a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment (iv a) information on disqualifications arising from a criminal conviction, Amendment 20 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 11 – paragraph 1 – point b – point iv Text proposed by the Council Amendment (iv) information on disqualifications arising from a criminal conviction, deleted EXPLANATORY STATEMENT On 22 December 2005 the Commission published its proposal for a Framework Decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information extracted from criminal records. The purpose of the proposal is to improve communication between the judicial authorities and to ensure that requests for information from the Member States concerning criminal records are replied to properly and in a comprehensive, exhaustive fashion. The main topics dealt with in the proposal are: 1. The obligation for the Member State of conviction to transmit immediately to the Member State of nationality full information concerning the convictions handed down on its nationals. 2. Obligation for the Member State of nationality to store and update all information received. 3. Conditions and procedure for replying to a request for information concerning a criminal record. On 6 February 2008 the EU Council decided to consult the European Parliament again. Further consultation is justified in view of the major changes which have been made to the original text and in particular the incorporation of some of Parliament's proposals and the Kingdom of Belgium's initiative concerning the recognition and enforcement of prohibitions arising from convictions for sexual offences committed against children. The rapporteur welcomes the fact that many of the proposals contained in Parliament’s 21 June 2007 report have been accepted. However, attention must be drawn to the proposal for a single legal framework for the protection of personal data which is identical to the one originally formulated by the Commission; since Parliament’s initiatives in this field have not been taken into account, further amendments will have to be tabled. The rapporteur also regrets the fact that the Council has chosen to establish a dual