generally be assumed that shareholders are aware of the regularity of specific distributions. Amendment 3 8 Proposal for a regulation Article 24 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. In the case of a reduction of the share capital of the SPE, Articles 21 and 22 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 1. In the case of a reduction of the share capital of the SPE, Articles 21 and 22 shall apply mutatis mutandis. A r eduction of the share capital shall be permissible only where the remaining amount of the deposit does not fall below the minimum amount referred to in Article 19(4). Justification In line with Amendment 18 (capital stock of EUR 10 000). Amendment 39 Proposal for a regulation Article 25 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. An SPE shall be subject to the requirements of the applicable national law as regards preparation, filing, auditing and publication of accounts. 1. An SPE shall be subject to the requirements of the applicable national law as regards preparation, filing, auditing and publication of statutory accounts. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Article 25 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The management body shall keep the books of the SPE. The bookkeeping of the SPE shall be governed by the applicable national law. 2. The executive management body shall keep the books of the SPE. The bookkeeping of the SPE shall be governed by the applicable national law. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 4 1 Proposal for a regulation Article 26 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The SPE shall have a management body, which shall be responsible for the management of the SPE. The management body may exercise all the powers of the SPE not required by this Regulation or the articles of association to be exercised by the shareholders. 1. The SPE shall have an executive management body, which shall be responsible for the management of the SPE. The executive management body may exercise all the powers of the SPE not required by this Regulation or the articles of association to be exercised by the shareholders. Members' resolutions shall be internally binding on the executive management body. Justification See Amendment 2. The addition has been made in the interests of clarification. Amendment 4 2 Proposal for a regulation Article 27 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Resolutions on the matters indicated in points (a), (b), (c), (i), (l), (m) (n), (o) and (p) of paragraph 1 shall be taken by a qualified majority. 2. Resolutions on the matters indicated in points (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (l), (m) (n), (o) and (p) of paragraph 1 shall be taken by a qualified majority. Justification Including resolutions on increases of share capital in the list for qualified-majority decisions will offer greater protection for minority shareholders. Amendment 4 3 Proposal for a regulation Article 27 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The adoption of resolutions shall not require the organisation of a