Trade and economic relations with the countries of South East Asia (ASEAN) External/international trade 2008-05-08 - 13:07 The EP is in favour of concluding a free-trade accord between the EU and the 10 countries of the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN). However, say MEPs in the committee, the agreement must meet certain conditions regarding sustainable development, the fight against fraud and respect for human rights. The report, drafted by Glyn FORD (PES, UK) and adopted by an overwhelming majority, supports plans for a free-trade agreement with ASEAN subject to WTO rules and the outcome of the Doha development round. Glyn Ford said: "ASEAN is an increasingly important power in the world. ASEAN is the EU's 5th largest trading partner, ranking ahead of Japan. This EU-ASEAN FTA would be beneficial to both sides, including to poor countries in the region. For obvious reasons, Burma will not be part of that trade agreement". MEPs voice concern at the slowness of the negotiations launched in April 2007, believe that it should be possible to suspend preferential custom tariffs granted under the agreement if key points of the partnership and cooperation agreement are violated, in particular the human rights clauses. Food prices Parliament expresses concern about the consequences of higher rice prices, particularly for poorer households in rice-importing ASEAN countries. The House calls on both sides to give priority in the negotiations to the need to stabilise the price of commodities, in particular the price of food, and to approach the issue of agro-fuels with great caution. Sustainable development The planned agreement should ask the ASEAN countries to ratify and apply the basic conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), according to the EP report. MEPs particularly emphasise the need to ban child labour and forced labour. Measures to combat the destruction of tropical forests should also be included in the agreement, says the report. The ASEAN countries who try to stem the illegal exploitation of forests should be supported, say MEPs in the committee, who also want to give preference to environmentally-friendly biofuels and cut customs tariffs on environmental and/or fair-trade products. Intellectual property rights and the anti-counterfeiting measures The report highlights the need to observe intellectual property rights (IPR), especially for models and designs, sound recordings and other cultural goods, as well as the fight against the counterfeiting of drugs and medicines. It also calls for protection of and respect for geographical indications and labels of origin, as well as more transparency in the award of public contracts, state aid and other subsidies. Burma "The current situation in Burma makes it impossible for that country to be included in the agreement", argues the Trade Committee's report. At joint hearing held in early April by the EP Development Committee and Human Rights Subcommittee, the EU was urged to target better its sanctions on the Burmese junta. Least developed countries The report also stresses the situation of the least developed countries (LDCs) in the region: Cambodia, Laos and Burma. At present the Commission's negotiating mandate does not provide for negotiations with the LDCs. If these