Joint answer given by Ms Hübner on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-2791/06 , E-2794/06 (28 August 2006) Following the subsidiarity principle, the position and role of the Commission (as enshrined in the Community law) does not include the involvement of the Commission in selection of projects under Structural Funds. According to Regulation (EC) 1260 of 21 June 1999 Council Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999 of 21 June 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds, OJ L 161, 26.6.1999. , the implementation of the programmes part-financed by Structural Funds is a responsibility of the Member State, and specifically of a managing authority administering a particular form of assistance. This means in practice, that decisions on European Union funding for individual projects is in the majority of cases taken by local/regional authorities, development agencies or when larger projects are involved, by the managing authority itself. Therefore, information on calls for proposals may be available only in those institutions. The general description of Structural Funds interventions in Poland is included in a document named ‘Community support framework for Poland 2004‑06’; this document is mainly implemented via seven operational programmes, managed by different Ministries, but with a coordination role of the Ministry of Regional Development. It is worth mentioning that potential funding of a project depends on factors such as: compliance with the objectives of a given form of assistance, eligibility of the project/beneficiary and the importance of the project for local/regional development. In the case of fulfilment of all formal eligibility criteria, the project has to undergo a selection procedure, where it will be appraised on its merits, also in relation to the specific objectives of the programme. In case of the integrated regional operational programme (IROP) which contains a number of measures covering tourism infrastructure, this procedure is managed by the regional authorities (Marshal Offices). However, it appears that most of the financial resources for the period 2004‑06 have already been committed. For further information, the Commission kindly suggests that the Honourable Member contacts the respective Polish authorities at national and regional levels, in particular: Ministerstwo Rozwoju Regionalnego (Ministry for Regional Development), ul. Wspólna 2/4, PL‑00‑926 Warszawa