Member States NARIC and the contact point are one organisation. In addition to this, the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning Recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 on the establishment of the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning (2008/C 111/01), see http://ec.europa.eu/education/lifelong-learning-policy/doc44_en.htm (EQF), launched in 2008, aims to improve the transparency, comparability and portability of qualifications throughout Europe. It is a common reference framework including eight levels defined through learning outcomes, which acts as a translation device between different qualifications systems and their levels. All Member States have agreed to implement the framework on a voluntary basis. Once national qualifications levels are related to the EQF levels, it becomes easier for employers to appreciate the value of individual qualifications from other countries. The United Kingdom is one of three countries that have already linked their national qualifications levels to the EQF, and the relationship between the UK's qualification levels and the EQF are set out in the national referencing report, available at http://www.scqf.org.uk/AbouttheFramework/SCQF-to-EQF-Referencing-Project.aspx. Within the implementation of the EQF, a website which will be available in the coming months will show how national qualifications levels throughout Europe are linked to the EQF's common reference levels to support the comparison of national qualifications. This will be further developed into a multilingual portal. In each country an EQF National Coordination is active and can provide information on how national qualifications levels related to the EQF See annex for the contact details for the United Kingdom and Lithuania. . The Honourable Member may also wish to know that all EU Member States except Italy and Greece have now ratified the Lisbon Recognition Convention developed by the Council of Europe and Unesco. Under the Convention, each country should recognise qualifications — whether for access to higher education, for periods of study or for higher education degrees — as similar to the corresponding qualifications in its own system unless it can show that there are substantial differences between its own qualifications and the qualifications for which recognition is sought. In the light of the above, the Commission does not intend to initiate a database of qualifications.