of the Administration and Personnel. What will be your personal approach of the social dialogue with the ECB Staff? How do you envisage the possibilities to promote an equal opportunities policy in the ECB, in particular at the managerial level? I do believe that a well-functioning dialogue with the staff is essential for creating and maintaining a good working atmosphere in an organisation. Such a dialogue should be maintained at many levels within the organisation. However, any dialogue must respect the fact that the parties engaged in it have different roles. More concretely, a dialogue between management and staff cannot succeed if their different roles are not recognised and staff representatives want to assume management responsibility. It can also not succeed if the management is not prepared to genuinely engage in a dialogue but see the dialogue only as a necessary formality. As regards equal opportunities, I have no reason to believe that the ECB recruitment policy involves gender discrimination. That being said, I would certainly not want to state that the ECB has as many female staff at managerial level as ideally would be desirable. I would therefore look to see whether this issue should be given a more prominent place on the agenda. 13. Are you of the opinion that the working conditions (and staff rules) of the ECB’s employees should be negotiated with the staff committee? Which other modifications are necessary in your view to bring these working conditions (and staff rules) in line with those of other European institutions? As I understand, the role of the Staff Committee in the ECB as a body elected by the whole staff is of a consultative nature. As such, the Staff Committee is consulted on the conditions of employment in the ECB. In my view, it is not a natural negotiating party, a role that I would associate with a trade union. According to the Statute, the conditions of employment of ECB staff are determined by the Governing Council upon a proposal from the Executive Board and with the benefit of comments from the members of the General Council. As a member of both the Governing and General Councils, I have contributed to the decisions taken in that respect and fully support them. As the employment and working conditions at the ECB correspond to international labour standards in all respects and the rights of staff and trade unions are respected, I do not see any reason for modification at the current juncture. It is, however, clear that working conditions at the ECB need to be monitored closely so as to ensure that, in a rapidly changing environment, the ECB remains an attractive work place, that it continues to be competitive with other international organisations and that it secures the human resources required, both in qualitative and quantitative terms, to fulfil its statutory functions and tasks. As a prospective member of the Executive Board I will certainly attach great importance to these aspects. D. Democratic accountability 14. How do you see the distinction between the ECB independence and its accountability and what