López (born 21 October 1978) is a classical music composer from Lima, Peru and is considered \"one of the most interesting young composers anywhere today\" He has won several international awards and pieces composed by him have been performed by leading orchestras around the world such as the Chicago Symphony Orchestra, Philadelphia Orchestra, Boston Symphony Orchestra, Fort Worth Symphony Orchestra, National Symphony Orchestra of Peru, Helsinki Philharmonic Orchestra, MDR Leipzig Radio Symphony Orchestra, Sydney Symphony Orchestra and Orchestre Philharmonique de Radio France.", " His works have been performed in prestigious venues such as Carnegie Hall, Sydney Opera House, Gewandhaus Leipzig, and during the 2010 Youth Olympic games in Singapore.", " His music has been featured in numerous festivals, including Tanglewood Music Festival, Aspen Music Festival, Grant Park Music Festival, Darmstadt International Course for New Music, and Donaueschingen Music Festival." ] ], [ "Symphony No. 8 (Sallinen)", [ "The Symphony No. 8 \"Autumnal Fragments\", Op. 81, is the eighth symphony by the Finnish composer Aulis Sallinen.", " The work was commissioned by the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra and was completed in October 2001.", " Its world premiere was given by the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra conducted by Paavo Järvi at the Concertgebouw on April 16, 2004." ] ], [ "David S. Sampson", [ "David Sampson (born January 26, 1951, Charlottesville, Virginia) is a composer and professional trumpet player.", " He was Composer-in-Residence with the Colonial Symphony Orchestra from 1998 through 2007.", " He is a recipient a 2014 New Jersey State Council on the Arts Individual Artist Fellowship.", " His major works include The War Prayer for soloists, chorus and orchestra commissioned by the National Endowment for the Arts and premiered by Princeton Pro Musica; Hommage JFK commissioned by the National Symphony Orchestra; Monument commissioned by the Barlow Foundation for the Akron and Memphis symphony orchestras; Turns for Cello and Orchestra commissioned by the Bergen Foundation and cellist Paul Tobias and premiered with the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra; Triptych for trumpet and orchestra commissioned by the International Trumpet Guild and premiered by Raymond Mase at the Aspen Music Festival and with the American Composers Orchestra at Carnegie Hall; Dectet commissioned by the Chicago Chamber Musicians; Elements commissioned by the Elements Quartet; Strata commissioned by the NEA and the American Brass Quintet; Jersey Rain commissioned by the NEA and the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation and premiered by Harmonium and Masterworks Choruses and the Colonial Symphony." ] ], [ "Symphony No. 2 (Liebermann)", [ "Lowell Liebermann’s Symphony No. 2, Op. 67 (1999) is a symphony for large orchestra and SATB chorus, with texts adapted from the poetry of Walt Whitman.", " It is about 40 minutes long, and arranged into four movements to be played without a break.", " It was commissioned by Ford Lacy and Cece Smith for the Dallas Symphony Orchestra and Chorus’ centennial celebration.", " The work was premiered in 2000, with Andrew Litton conducting the Dallas Symphony Orchestra and Chorus.", " The Second Symphony was very favorably received at its premiere, with TIME describing it as, “Now brazen and glittering, now radiantly visionary...the