structure. Issuers should avoid applying such practices. Justification Issuers of structured instruments must be allowed to seek a range of offers. However, to ensure that the fact of enquiring in several quarters is not taken to imply that there are no sufficient guarantees as to the quality of rating agency assessment – given that the agency appointed to handle the finance product was the one most likely to produce a favourable assessment – the final report on the product should state that the credit rating agency concerned was in competition with rival bidders, which should be listed by name, and hired on that basis. Amendment 2 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 22 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (22) A credit rating agency registered by the competent authority of the relevant Member State should be allowed to issue credit ratings throughout the Community. It is therefore necessary to establish a single registration for each credit rating agency which is valid throughout the Community. (22) A credit rating agency registered by the CESR should be allowed to issue credit ratings throughout the Community. It is therefore necessary to establish a single registration for each credit rating agency which is valid throughout the Community. Amendment 2 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 23 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (23) Some credit rating agencies are composed of several legal entities which together form a group of credit rating agencies. When registering each of the credit rating agencies being part of such a group, the competent authorities of the Member States concerned should coordinate the assessment of the applications submitted by credit rating agencies belonging to the same group. deleted Amendment 2 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 24 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (24) It is necessary to establish a single point for submission of applications for registration. CESR should receive applications for registration and effectively inform competent authorities in all Member States. Nevertheless, the examination of applications for registration should be carried out at national level by the relevant competent authority. In order to efficiently deal with credit rating agencies competent authorities within CESR should set up an operational network supported by an efficient information technology infrastructure and establish a subcommittee specialised in the field of credit ratings of each of the asset classes rated by credit rating agencies. (24) It is necessary to establish a single point for submission of applications for registration. The CESR should receive and proce ss applications for registration and effectively inform competent authorities in all Member States. The CESR should ensure the application of a level playing field throughout the European Union, thus avoiding regulatory arbitrage. Amendment 2 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 25 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (25a) Further wide-ranging reforms of the regulatory and supervisory model of the European Union's financial sector are needed. In particular, the Commission announced in its Communication of 29 October 2008 entitled 'From financial crisis to recovery: A European framework for action', that it had set up a group of experts, chaired by