Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (9 January 2012) The EU is aware of the United Nations' report on the treatment of prisoners in Afghan jails. The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan has made it clear that the report does not conclude that the ill-treatment encountered is part of a systematic policy by the authorities. They have also stated that the Government is taking the allegations seriously and is seeking to establish mechanisms to avoid future abuses. The EU will continue to follow the situation of Afghan prisoners closely and will bring up the issue with the Government of Afghanistan whenever appropriate. Governance and Rule of Law are focal areas of EU support to Afghanistan and are, therefore, key elements in the dialogue with the Government. In particular, the EU has supported the Ministry of Justice in overseeing the Central Prisons Department (CPD). This responsibility is now being transferred to the Ministry of Interior (MoI) and the EU, in cooperation with the international community, is working closely with the Afghan authorities to ensure that suitable checks and balances remain in place once the CPD falls fully under MoI responsibility. This includes a reform of the prison law and ensuring that the rights of persons in detention are protected. Moreover, EU assistance for capacity building activities with the police takes a human rights-based approach. Furthermore, in regard to EUPOL Afghanistan, human rights are a cross-cutting issue in its tasks related to police mentoring, cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and prosecutors. EUPOL also cooperates directly with the Afghan Human Rights Commission. The EU also continues to fund Afghan civil society, including under the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR). It stands ready to use its assistance instruments to help the government to address human rights abuses in a timely fashion. The Commission, via its humanitarian aid department, is funding the International Red Cross Committee (ICRC) which mandate includes notably the protection of detainees. ICRC's action aims at guaranteeing that all detainees are held only in recognised places of detention where material conditions and rules of detainees' management conform to International Humanitarian Law (IHL) or other internationally recognised standards. One of ICRC's main tasks under this action is to ensure that conditions of detention are satisfactory.