the supervision or regulation of investment business or other financial services .” see ES-2, chapter 9. While CoB concerns could be symptomatic of spotting a wider malaise in the company, which needed to be pursued by the prudential supervisor, the CoB regulators also had an interest in any prudential problems affecting a life office, since such problems could indicate a need to scrutinise marketing materials more closely, to ensure that they were not misleading. Before 1 January 1999, when FSA took over the day-to-day monitoring of compliance with PIA’s conduct of business rules together with the prudential supervision of life offices, the two regulators operated under separate legislation in different locations with little formal contact and did not set up any regular information-sharing procedures. From 1999 onwards, the staff responsible for the day-to-day supervision of life offices under the two services level agreements were located in the same building in FSA but decision-making powers remained with the PIA Board for CoB rules and with HMT for prudential matters until FSMA came into force at the end of 2001. It took some time for each side to acquire a better understanding of the objectives and preoccupations of the other and to learn how to work together. On 1 December 2001 (when the FSMA came into force) the SRO were dissolved and the FSA became, in addition to being the prudential supervisor, the sole Conduct of Business regulatory authority for life insurance companies. 4. The Appointed Actuary (AA) The concept of Appointed Actuary (AA) was introduced by the "Insurance Companies Act" of 1974 and has been for decades a critical feature of the UK regulatory system. The idea was to "designate a specific professional person within the company who could be relied on by the prudential competent authority to monitor the financial position of the company on a continuous basis ... It was regarded as the professional responsibility of the AA to monitor the overall financial position of the company. Having the AA at the heart of the company (with full right of access to the Board) ... was intended to provide protection for policyholder interests, as well as a strong internal system of financial control and risk management." (WE32) WE32, para.26,28,29. He was normally " the first point of contact for GAD within each life office." (ES-2) The AA " had to hold 'prescribed qualifications', which included a requirement that the actuary must have attained the age of 30 and be a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries or the Faculty of Actuaries; subsequently it became a requirement ... to hold a “practising certificate” from the Faculty and Institute of Actuaries" (WE32) WE32, para.41,42. In practical terms, the AA was there " to make sure there were sufficient assets in the company to fulfil the promises and activities in which the company indulges ." (WE59) on role and responsibilities of actuaries, see also the Q&A at the House of Commons Treasury Select Committee, minutes of the 24 April 2004 session (WE59). The AA had specific duties to report to the board on the