referred to under point IX 2 c.), which were put forward by ELAS victims. Of the 30 Irish policyholders who responded to the committee's questionnaire (see WE-FILE 33), only 7 indicate that they had made complaints to the IOI. 3 of them received small settlements. One complaint was rejected because the policyholder was covered by the compromise agreement. Another complaint was not admitted because the value of the claim exceeded €160.000 The IOI continued to refuse to deal with the complainant after the complainant stated that he would be willing to reduce the amount to €159.999. . A third complainant had originally submitted a complaint to the UK FOS who advised him that it cannot deal with his complaint since " the issue ... raised falls within the jurisdiction of the Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland ". The IOI however, also refused to deal with the complaint making reference to its " absolute discretion" to determine whether a complaint falls within its terms of reference and suggesting that the matters complained about should be dealt with by a court instead. The fourth rejected complaint is the one submitted by Ms KNOWD, which is referred to in a previous paragraph. It is also unclear on the basis of which legal requirements the IOI assessed mis-selling complaints: Mr MEADE in WE 68 provided the following answer to the committee's written question: " At the time the complaints were received, the conduct of business rules [were] not in operation. However, the Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland looked at those complaints from a practical view and considered whether the complainants had been given all of the relevant material regarding the product... ". In summary, a very limited number of Irish ELAS policyholders appear to have been able to obtain compensation through adjudications of the Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland scheme in place at the time. It is uncertain, however, whether the cases found in favour of policyholders are in any way linked to the allegations made in connection with the events at Equitable that are investigated by this committee. Furthermore, there is a lack of conclusive evidence that would make it possible for the committee to clearly determine for which reasons some complaints by Irish ELAS policyholders were treated by the IOI while others were referred to the UK FOS. Overall, given the lack of clarity in both jurisdiction matters and legal bases for adjudicating complaints at the time and taking into account the lack of evidence that the small number of decisions in favour of the complainant indeed addressed the main issues of the ELAS affair, it appears that the former IOI scheme did not constitute a satisfactory avenue to redress for the approximately 4000 Irish policyholders. It should be noted, however, that the situation has improved since with the establishment of the Financial Services Ombudsman. Germany In Germany there has been an Ombudsman for the insurance sector ( Versicherungsombudsmann ) since October 2001. In contrast to the UK system and the recently established Irish Financial Services Ombudsman, the German scheme was not established by law but by