the importance of reducing disparities between Member States, on the one hand, and between European regions, on the other, L. whereas territorial cooperation is an important component of cohesion policy and must be endowed with an appropriate level of financial resources and included in overall strategic planning, 1. Stresses that the Commission's proposal on the strategic guidelines sets the Community's priorities with a view to promoting balanced, harmonious and sustained development and thereby pursues the Lisbon and Göteborg objectives; 2. Maintains, however, that future cohesion policy must help to meet the challenges posed by the most recent enlargement of the European Union by helping to reduce regional disparities and fostering a society based on full employment, equal opportunities, inclusion, and social cohesion; 3. Takes the view that the strategic guidelines should not restrict the scope of the regulations on the individual funds, but only clarify the EU's strategic priorities and points in this connection to the need to ensure that the regions have sufficient flexibility to be able to react specifically to requirements in the regions, since there are many ways and means of achieving successful sustainable development, particularly where the regions" and local authorities" experiences concerning their own development potential are fully incorporated into regional strategies; 4. Refers in this connection to the differing needs of industrial regions, rural areas, cities and urban areas, sparsely populated areas and the and very outermost regions and island, mountain and border regions; 5. Calls also for aid to be channelled towards areas suffering structural disadvantages such as depopulation, population ageing, or inaccessibility and for the economic and social development of those areas to be boosted; 6. Stresses, however, that the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy is primarily a matter for the Member States and that cohesion policy has to form a unified whole with the Lisbon and Göteborg objectives and become a key factor in their attainment through national and regional development programmes; 7. Welcomes the evidence of linkage between job growth and an increase in productivity and notes that the essential purpose underlying it is to create high-quality permanent jobs. 8. Considers it necessary to concentrate the scant financial resources available in an intelligent and efficient manner in order to achieve maximum European added value instead of scattering funds; 9. Stresses once again the importance of a sound partnership between all the parties concerned and calls for this partnership to be clearly enshrined in the regulations and guidelines and thus supports the strengthening of civil society; 10. Calls on the Commission proactively to support public-private partnerships (PPPs) as a funding instrument and not to treat the Member States differently; supports specifically the possibilities offered by JESSICA, JEREMIE and JASPERS in this connection; endorses the Commission proposal regarding the role of the European Investment Bank in helping to finance the implementation of cohesion policy; 11. Points to the importance of laying down rules to govern the formation of public-private partnerships (PPPs) and of simplifying programme management and monitoring procedures so as to ensure that projects can be and are implemented rapidly; 12. Stresses how