primarily to the field of employment and social affairs, such as social protection, immigration and asylum, social exclusion, health services, pensions, lifelong education and training, enterprise policy, meeting the challenge of demographic ageing, etc., B. whereas, according to the Lisbon European Council Presidency conclusions, applying the open method of coordination should make it possible to disseminate best practice and ensure greater convergence of national policies towards the main EU goals, C. whereas the purpose of the open method of coordination is not to achieve harmonisation but some measure of compatibility, homogeneity or convergence in the results of long-term policies through a process of mutual learning ; and whereas the open method of coordination is just one possible means of action and not intended to replace legislative work, D. whereas the Treaty explicitly provides for the application of the open method of coordination only for the formulation of the European employment strategy; whereas there are more or less developed open method of coordination processes (OMCPs) in other policy areas; the areas of European governance where the application of such a method of governance is to be preferred to the other executive instruments at the Union's disposal are not specified by the Treaty, by other regulatory provisions, or by an interinstitutional agreement, and whereas any decision to apply that method is taken on a case-by-case basis by the Council acting on a proposal from the Commission or on its own initiative, E. noting a progressive switch in the European decision-making process from traditional legislative work to new methods of working in areas where the legislative approach is inappropriate, F. taking it as read that the European Parliament is the only institution which is capable, at European level, of exercising democratic control over political processes, including the open method of coordination, G. noting that the European Parliament, the guarantor of democratic debate, is at risk of being marginalised or sidelined by these new political procedures, H. whereas the role of the European Parliament in relation to the procedure known as the open method of coordination is unspecified, with only the European employment strategy including a provision for Parliament to be formally consulted, I. whereas, even in that instance, Parliament's role is considerably constrained by the time limits attached to the procedure, J. whereas not only the European Parliament but also the parliaments within the Member States must be given due influence and responsibility in the OMCPs, K. whereas there is a dearth of general surveys on the effectiveness of the method in achieving both the long-term objective of national policy coordination and the procedure's short-term objectives, namely exchanging good practice, assessing national policy, setting targets and responding to Commission recommendations, L. whereas, according to various experts, the global impact of the open method of coordination is determined by the degree of coordination required at Union level in each area, the groupings through which national interests are represented and the ability of the national authorities to bring national policy into line with the prescribed European strategy, M. whereas the Convention's four working groups on the simplification