been used by intermediary banks, in particular with a view to ascertaining whether the quality of EIB loans really benefits the end recipients; 22. Calls on the EIB to ensure that its operational standards are consistent with international standards and best practices; and to establish a transparent participation mechanism to involve civil society organisations and other interested parties in the formulation of strengthened EIB social standards; 23. Calls on the EIB to set up a new environmental framework based on clear, binding and enforceable minimum standards, which would provide an opportunity for the EIB to make its values and standards clear to all stakeholders, including local communities; 24. Congratulates the EIB on developing its control system to give greater weight to ex-post evaluation of operations; welcomes the publication of a summary of evaluations carried out by the Operations Evaluation department; reiterates its request made in paragraph 14 of its resolution of 22 April 2004 on the activity report for 2002 of the European Investment Bank OJ C 104E, 30.4.2004, p. 1019. that the EIB should provide information on failed projects, in order to learn from such failures; 25. Notes the EIB's intention to associate itself voluntarily with the establishment of an international solvency ratio (Basel II); calls on the EIB to communicate the methodologies applied and the constituent components of this ratio; calls for a study on the way that the application of Basel II is supervised; 26. Welcomes the EIB's focus on transparency, outlined in its Public Disclosure Policy of 28 March 2006; 27. Urges the EIB to continue to improve its communications policy; calls for the main contents of the EIB web page to be translated into all the EU languages; 28. Calls on the EIB to continue providing Parliament and the public an annual summary of measures taken to improve its performance, in line with Parliament's previous resolutions; 0 0 29. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the European Investment Bank.