parents on social and family life (debate) Agenda of the next sitting Closure of the sitting ATTENDANCE REGISTER MINUTES IN THE CHAIR: Hans-Gert PÖTTERING President 1 Opening of the sitting The sitting opened at 9.05. 2 Written declarations (submission) The following Member had forwarded a written declaration for inclusion in the register (Rule 116): - Guido Podestà on Protected Geographical Indications ( 0022/2008 ). 3 Preparation of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 March 2008) (debate) Council and Commission statements: Preparation of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 March 2008) Janez Lenarčič (President-in-Office of the Council) and José Manuel Barroso (President of the Commission) made the statements. The following spoke: Joseph Daul , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Martin Schulz , on behalf of the PSE Group, Graham Watson , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Brian Crowley , on behalf of the UEN Group, Rebecca Harms , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Gabriele Zimmer , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Jens-Peter Bonde , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Jana Bobošíková , Non-attached Member , Giles Chichester , Robert Goebbels , Janusz Onyszkiewicz , Ryszard Czarnecki , Claude Turmes , Eva-Britt Svensson , Johannes Blokland , Andreas Mölzer , Marianne Thyssen , Harlem Désir , Lena Ek , Mario Borghezio , Marie Anne Isler Béguin , Dimitrios Papadimoulis , Philip Claeys , João de Deus Pinheiro , Udo Bullmann , Fiona Hall , Mirosław Mariusz Piotrowski , Gisela Kallenbach , Kyriacos Triantaphyllides , Roger Helmer , Werner Langen , Jan Andersson , Margarita Starkevičiūtė , Konrad Szymański , Gunnar Hökmark , Katerina Batzeli , Danutė Budreikaitė , Karl-Heinz Florenz , Libor Rouček , Alexander Lambsdorff , Lambert van Nistelrooij , Gary Titley , Daniel Dăianu , Klaus-Heiner Lehne , Riitta Myller , Kathy Sinnott , Malcolm Harbour , Proinsias De Rossa , Georg Jarzembowski , Dariusz Rosati , Othmar Karas , Pervenche Berès , Monica Maria Iacob-Ridzi , Mairead McGuinness , Carlos Coelho and Christopher Beazley . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Tunne Kelam , Jean-Pierre Audy , Zita Pleštinská , Georgs Andrejevs , Erna Hennicot-Schoepges , Paul Rübig and Nina Škottová . The following spoke: Janez Lenarčič and José Manuel Barroso . The following spoke: Martin Schulz , on behalf of the PSE Group , on remarks by Graham Watson and Othmar Karas , Joseph Daul , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, and Graham Watson , on behalf of the ALDE Group , both on Mr Schulz's remarks. The debate closed. 4 Statement by the President The President made a statement in which, on Parliament's behalf, he called for the hostages held by the FARC, including Íngrid Betancourt, to be released immediately and for an international medical mission to be sent to Colombia. He expressed Parliament's solidarity with those kidnapped and their families. IN THE CHAIR: Gérard ONESTA Vice-President 5 Voting time Details of voting (amendments, separate and split votes, etc.) appear in the Results of Votes annex to the minutes. The results of roll-call votes are available in electronic form only, as an annex to