Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (3 December 2008) The Community's energy policy is largely oriented by the decisions taken by the European Council in March 2007, when it adopted an action plan (2007‑09) on an energy policy for Europe. The three principal objectives are security of energy supply, competitiveness and sustainability. The contribution of nuclear energy to meeting these objectives has been clearly recognised. However, it is for each individual Member State to decide whether or not to rely on nuclear energy. The Commission has a specific mandate in the nuclear field through the provisions of the Euratom Treaty, including the areas of radiological protection of its citizens, nuclear materials safeguards, fuel supply, research and development and international cooperation. Euratom cooperates in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy worldwide, as well as promoting research, which is paramount in maintaining EU leadership in the nuclear field. For example, the Euratom 7th Framework Programme contributes to strategic research in a number of areas, such as nuclear safety, nuclear waste management, innovative fission reactor technology, and the ITER International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor. (international nuclear fusion) project. Title Two, Chapter IV, Article 40 of the Euratom Treaty, mandates the Commission to publish periodically an illustrative nuclear programme indicating, in particular, nuclear energy production targets and the types of investments required for their attainment. Since 1958, five such illustrative programmes and one update have been published. The last update COM(2008)776. was adopted by the Commission on 13 November 2008 in the context of the second strategic energy review COM(2008)744. . This document provides both a qualitative and quantitative description of the current and future status of the nuclear industry in the EU in the framework of a broader energy strategy. It serves as a basis for discussing the role of nuclear power in the context of the ongoing EU energy policy debate. In 2007, the Commission established two forums to debate further the role of nuclear energy and to identify requirements for its development. First, the High Level Group on Nuclear Safety and Waste Management Commission Decision 2007/530/Euratom of 17 July 2007, OJ L 195, 27.7.2007. is mandated to advise and assist the Commission in developing common understanding and additional European rules in the fields of the safety of nuclear installations and the safety of the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The Commission has adopted, based in particular on the work of the High Level Group, a new proposal setting up a Community framework on nuclear safety on 26 November 2008. Second, the European Nuclear Energy Forum http://ec.europa.eu/energy/nuclear/forum/index_en.htm , which held its first meeting in Bratislava in November 2007, provides a platform for a broad and transparent stakeholder discussion on the opportunities and risks of nuclear energy. In addition, the European Sustainable Nuclear Energy Technology Platform www.snetp.eu groups the main stakeholders from the technical nuclear community with the aim of defining and implementing a Strategic Research Agenda in the field of nuclear systems and safety. Since 1976 Cooperation Agreement between the European Atomic Energy Community and the International Atomic Energy