Community legislation are of high quality and issued by credit rating agencies subject to stringent requirements. The Commission will continue to work with its international partners to ensure convergence of the rules applying to credit rating agencies. (2) Currently, most credit rating agencies have their headquarters outside the Community. Most Member States do not regulate the activities of credit rating agencies or the conditions for the issuance of credit ratings. Despite their significant importance for the functioning of the financial markets, credit rating agencies are subject to Community legislation only in limited areas , notably Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation. Moreover, Directive 2006/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and Directive 2006/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions refer to credit rating agencies. It is therefore important to lay down rules ensuring that all credit ratings used by financial institutions governed by Community legislation are of high quality and issued by credit rating agencies subject to stringent requirements. The Commission will continue to work with its international partners to ensure convergence of the rules applying to credit rating agencies. Justification This clarifies that credit rating agencies are only subject to a very small number of Community legislation. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) Credit rating agencies may apply on a voluntary basis the Code of Conduct Fundamentals for credit rating agencies issued by the International Organisation of Securities Commissions, hereinafter the "IOSCO code". In 2006 a Communication from the Commission on Credit Rating Agencies invited the Committee of European Securities Regulators, hereinafter "CESR", to monitor compliance with the IOSCO Code and report back to the Commission on an annual basis. (3) Credit rating agencies sh ould apply the Code of Conduct Fundamentals for credit rating agencies issued by the International Organisation of Securities Commissions, hereinafter the "IOSCO code". In 2006 a Communication from the Commission on Credit Rating Agencies invited the Committee of European Securities Regulators, hereinafter "CESR", to monitor compliance with the IOSCO Code and report back to the Commission on an annual basis. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5) Credit rating agencies are considered to have failed to reflect early enough in their credit ratings the worsening market conditions. This failure can be best corrected by measures related to conflicts of interest, the quality of the credit ratings, the transparency of the credit rating agencies, their internal governance and surveillance of the activities of the credit rating agencies. The users of credit ratings should not rely blindly on credit ratings. They should take utmost care to perform own analysis and conduct due diligence regarding their reliance on such credit ratings. (5) Credit rating agencies are considered to have failed , on the