destined to join the Union on the basis of the same criteria as those applied to the other candidate countries, and welcomes the important steps taken by Turkey through recent legislative packages testifying to the determination of the new Turkish government to address swiftly all remaining shortcomings in the field of the political criteria; 18. Welcomes the undertaking that the European Council will decide in December 2004, on the basis of a report and a recommendation from the Commission, on Turkey’s fulfilment of the political criteria and, if the outcome is positive, that the European Union will open accession negotiations with Turkey without delay; 19. Supports the strengthening of the accession strategy for Turkey and the deepening of the EC-Turkey Customs Union; The enlarged Union and its neighbours 20. Insists that enlargement will bring about a new dynamic in European integration, offering a major opportunity to move forward relations with neighbouring countries based on shared political and economic values. Endorses therefore the reaffirmation of the ultimate European destiny of the countries of Eastern Europe and the Balkans and the support for moving closer to the EU; 21. Reiterates that enlargement will also strengthen relations with the southern Mediterranean countries, based on a long-term approach promoting democratic and economic reforms; 22. Endorses the European Council’s support for further developing cross-border and regional cooperation and encourages the Commission to present a paper on new neighbour strategy; II . european security and defence policy 23. Welcomes the comprehensive agreement reached with NATO on all outstanding permanent arrangements and the European Council’s readiness to take over the military operation in Macedonia as soon as possible, in consultation with NATO, and to lead a military operation in Bosnia following SFOR; 24. Takes the view that the EU and its Member States should not limit themselves to peacekeeping missions but, in view of new threats, should also be in a position to carry out peace enforcement operations in accordance with the UN Charter; III. other items Maritime safety/marine pollution 25. Welcomes the Union’s determination to take all necessary measures to avoid a repetition of catastrophes, and the commitment that the European Council will address these issues at its forthcoming March meeting, while referring to the Council and Commission for a rapid response; 26. Supports in consequence the Council’s commitment to banning single-hull tankers carrying heavy fuel oil from all EU ports, but demands clarification regarding the practical implications of the ban for the supply of oil in the EU; Alpine transit 27. Welcomes the European Council’s request for the Council to adopt, before the end of this year, a regulation on the interim solution for the transit of heavy goods vehicles through Austria 2004-2006, with the European Commission presenting a proposal for a new Eurovignette directive not later than the first half of 2003; 28. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the European Council.