a whole, including the outcome of his inquiries. 11.2 As well as special reports made under Article 8.4. above, the Ombudsman may make such other special reports to the European Parliament as he thinks appropriate to fulfil his responsibilities under the Treaties and the Statute. 11.3 The annual and special reports of the Ombudsman may contain such recommendations as he thinks appropriate to fulfil his responsibilities under the Treaties and the Statute. Article 12 Cooperation with ombudsmen and similar bodies in Member States The Ombudsman may work in conjunction with ombudsmen and similar bodies in the Member States with a view to enhancing the effectiveness both of his own inquiries and of those carried out by ombudsmen and similar bodies in the Member States and of making more effective provision for safeguarding rights and interests under European Union and European Community law. Article 13 The complainant's right to see the file 13.1 The complainant shall be entitled to see the Ombudsman’s file on his or her complaint, subject to Article 13.3 below. 13.2 The complainant may exercise the right to see the file on the spot. He or she may request the Ombudsman to supply a copy of the whole file, or of specific documents in the file. 13.3 Where the Ombudsman inspects the file of the institution concerned or takes evidence from a witness in accordance with Article 5.2 and 5.3 above, the complainant shall not have access to any confidential documents or confidential information obtained as a result of the inspection or hearing. Article 14 Public access to documents held by the Ombudsman 14.1 The public shall have access to unpublished documents held by the Ombudsman, subject to the same conditions and limits as those laid down by Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents (OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43). for public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents and to Article 14.2 below. 14.2 Where the Ombudsman inspects the file of the institution concerned or takes evidence from a witness in accordance with Article 5.2 and 5.3 above, the public shall not have access to any confidential documents or confidential information obtained as a result of the inspection or hearing. 14.3 Applications for access to documents shall be made in writing (letter, fax or e-mail) and in a sufficiently precise manner to enable the document to be identified. 14.4 Applications for access to the following documents shall be granted automatically, except in relation to complaints that are classified as confidential in accordance with Article 10.1 above: (a) the general register of complaints; (b) complaints and documents annexed thereto by the complainant; (c) opinions and detailed opinions from institutions concerned and any observations thereon made by the complainant; (d) the Ombudsman's decisions closing cases; (e) reports and draft recommendations made under Article 8 above. 14.5 Access is given on the spot or by providing a copy. The Ombudsman may impose reasonable charges for the supply