In the event of serious implementation difficulties, the Commission may propose, in the course of a financial year, that appropriations be transferred to the "provisions" title. The budgetary authority shall take a decision on these transfers as provided in Article 24. Article 44 The Commission section of the budget may include a "negative reserve" limited to a maximum amount of EUR 200 million. This reserve, which shall be entered in a separate chapter, may comprise both commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. This reserve must be drawn upon before the end of the financial year by means of transfer in accordance with the procedure laid down in Articles 22, 23 and 25. Article 45 1. The Commission section of the budget shall include the following two reserves: a) a reserve for emergency aid for third countries; b) a reserve relating to Community loans and loan guarantees to third countries. 2. The conditions for the entry, utilisation and financing of the reserves referred to in paragraph 1(a) and (b) are laid down in the Council Regulation on budgetary discipline and in the Council Regulation implementing the Decision on the system of the Communities' own resources respectively. Article 46 1. The budget shall show: 1) in the summary statement of revenue and expenditure: a) the estimated revenue of the Communities for the financial year in question; b) the estimated revenue for the preceding financial year and the revenue for year n −2; c) the commitment and payment appropriations for the financial year in question; d) the commitment and payment appropriations for the preceding financial year; e) the expenditure committed and the expenditure paid in year n −2; f) a summary statement of the schedule of payments due in subsequent financial years to meet budgetary commitments entered into in earlier financial years; g) appropriate remarks on each subdivision; 2) in the section for each institution, the revenue and expenditure shall be shown in the same structure as in point 1, with appropriate remarks on each subdivision, and with schedules of payments due in subsequent financial years to meet budgetary commitments entered into in earlier financial years. The estimated annual amounts of payment appropriations required for subsequent financial years in relation to the commitment appropriations for the current year shall be shown, as an indication, in a schedule entered in the remarks column of the budget; 3) as regards staff: a) for each section of the budget, an establishment plan setting the number of posts for each grade in each category and in each service and the number of permanent and temporary posts authorised within the limits of the budget appropriations; b) an establishment plan for staff paid from the research and technological development appropriations for direct action and an establishment plan for staff paid from the same appropriations for indirect action; the establishment plans shall be classified by category and grade and shall distinguish between permanent and temporary posts, authorised within the limits of the budget appropriations; c) as regards scientific and technical staff, the classification may be based on groups of grades, in accordance with