well as international trade; S. whereas the EU is not perceived as a strong actor in reshaping the international monetary and financial system because it does not speak with one voice, and because of the fragmentation of its external representation in international economic affairs; T. whereas it is essential to ensure that economic and financial systems do not harm the real economy; U. whereas, in accordance with the recommendations of the G20, the IMF has been assigned greater powers of supervision and surveillance of the global financial system, its financial resources have been increased and a thorough reform of its governance structure is under way; V. whereas financial markets have evolved over the past decades to operate globally through IT-intensive processes and networks, and data standardisation has lagged behind, hindering market – and often even firm-wide – data aggregation, analysis and operations, and reducing the transparency of financial transactions; Policy recommendations to address global economic governance 1. Stresses that global imbalances constitute a potential threat to financial and macro-economic stability, especially when excessive, in the leading economies and may have repercussions on other economies; taking this into account, notes that imbalances stemming from structural misalignments and a lack of competitiveness in the domestic economy should be addressed by both surplus and deficit countries, as these could also be a source of fundamental problems; 2. Stresses that the financial and economic crisis demonstrated that the inflow of capital as a result of global imbalances should be accompanied by responsible monetary policy and strong financial regulation and supervision; 3. Recognises the need for policy-makers around the world to continue working on solutions to reform global economic governance to help rebalance the world economy and avoid another slump; stresses that the reform of global governance should ensure that markets are embedded in a comprehensive institutional framework for them to function properly; estimates furthermore that one of the priority objectives of worldwide economic governance must be the creation of a favourable environment for long-term investment;. 4. Stresses the importance of responsible monetary policies; urges central banks of major economies to consider potential negative externalities, such as asset bubbles, carry-trade dynamics and financial destabilisation in other countries, when implementing conventional or non-conventional measures; 5. Is aware that, ultimately, confidence in the strength of the underlying economy and the depth, transparency, sophistication and stability of its financial markets are the main determinants for which currencies are kept as reserves by third countries' central banks; stresses in regard to this that any currency that seeks to become a part of the IMF's Special Drawing Rights basket must be subject to full convertibility, and acknowledges that the composition of the IMF's SDR basket should reflect the relative importance of currencies in the world's trading and financial systems; 6. States that exchange rates should reflect underlying market fundamentals in order to enhance openness and flexibility and to facilitate economic adjustment, and therefore should not be managed or manipulated by national monetary authorities; 7. Urges members of the IMF to adhere to the Articles of Agreement, especially the commitment to refrain from