before the next European elections in 2009. But, he stated, a road map is not all that is required.. "We need the settlement; to clear the clouds of doubt which hang over parts of Europe, to show vitality and confidence to our partners, and to make the European Union more transparent, more effective and more democratic. As I have said before, Nice is not enough. We cannot build tomorrow's Europe with yesterday's tools. We have a great opportunity to start changing that in the next six months. Let us go to work." Political group speakers The "pro-European" approach inherent in all Chancellor Merkel's proposals, on everything from climate change to international trade and relations with the USA, was warmly praised by Joseph DAUL (FR), newly-elected chairman of the EPP-ED group. The challenges facing it mean that "Europe must have an effective decision-making mechanism soon", he said, promising his group's support in the search "for a new dynamic that will allow us to acquire the tools we need to move forward". He advised Mrs Merkel to seek a balance between the 18 countries that have ratified the EU's draft constitution and those that have not, pointing out that a long list of ambitions that once appeared illusory, including the fall of communism and the reunification of Europe, have in fact been achieved. "The only lost battles are those that you don't engage" he said. Mr Daul stressed the need for the EU to respect subsidiarity, but at the same time to defend strategic common positions, for example vis-à-vis Russia, with a single voice. He saw the Rome Treaty's 50th anniversary as an opportunity to reiterate the Union's common values, and its reasons to stand shoulder to shoulder. Here politicians - and the media - have a duty to "convey a clear vision of the future", he concluded. Socialist group chairman Martin SCHULZ (DE) had also found Chancellor Merkel's speech "inspiring", and shared her views on tolerance, freedoms and beliefs. However, "freedom from social threats is a prerequisite for all other freedoms". Technology, talent and tolerance are not enough. As "social security is a vital facet of freedom", the EU must do something to guarantee it, he said. On the draft constitution, Mr Schulz cited the 18 ratifications - and President Barroso's reference to the need for a summit on this issue - as evidence of a shared desire to move forward. However, he also stressed the need to focus on the draft's core elements, and to assess the likely social effects of legislation. EU energy policy requires partnerships with supplier countries, but also more effort to save energy, he said, welcoming Germany's decision to abandon nuclear energy and hoping that other EU Member States would do likewise. Mr Schulz voiced the Socialist group's support for Mrs Merkel's proposals on Africa and the Middle East. The spirit of Europe is one of common endeavour, he concluded, noting that though it is often hard to build a sense of common purpose, "the alternative is hate and war". Graham WATSON (ALDE, UK), speaking for the Liberal