Answer given by Mr Šefčovič on behalf of the Commission (17 November 2010) The Commission would like to point out that it only answers on behalf of the Commission and that it, therefore, cannot answer questions concerning the Parliament. 1. The Honourable Member is kindly invited to consult the relevant services of the Parliament in this regard. 2. The offices used in Strasbourg by the Commission are fully managed by the Parliament. The Honourable Member is kindly invited to consult the relevant services of the Parliament in this regard. 3. The Commission has not undertaken such a study. 4. The Commission has taken a number of measures to decrease the energy and water consumption in its buildings in Brussels. These include both hard measures (such as replacing older heating and ventilation equipment with more efficient systems; decreasing the number of active lighting bodies in car parks and corridors; installing movement and light sensors in offices and toilets; cutting off hot water taps in toilet areas; etc.) and soft measures (such as decreasing the number of hours during which optimal comfort is provided in buildings both in normal operational circumstances and over the summer and winter recess periods; etc). In addition regular awareness-raising campaigns have been organised in order to stimulate members of staff to adopt a more proactive approach to optimise consumption. This includes a ‘switch off’ campaign, energy consumption posters, etc. 5. In Brussels, the Commission occupies about 1 million m². Between 2005 and 2009, this surface increased by over 20 %. Despite this, the Commission consumed 5 % less electricity in 2009 than in 2005. In 2009, the gas and fuel consumption was only 1.7 % higher than in 2005 (if it is taken into account the climatic differences between these two years, the difference is only 1 %). Between 2005 and 2009, the Commission's water consumption dropped by over 23 %. 6. A reduction of 2°F approximately corresponds to a reduction of 1°C. According to international experiences, decreasing the internal temperature by 1°C reduces the heating energy consumption by between 6 % and 8 %. In the case of Commission buildings in Brussels, such savings would result in the avoidance of 1 600 t of CO 2 emissions and of about EUR 820 000 in savings on energy costs.