Answer given by Mr Andor on behalf of the Commission (2 March 2010) The Commission’s communication on the outcome of the public consultation on its Green Paper ‘Modernising labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century’ COM(2007)627 final. made it clear that it is aware of the lack of clarity in the definition of an employment relationship and the consequences this may have for such categories of workers as the ‘bogus’ self-employed. It acknowledged the complexity of attempts to define workers and self-employed persons under EC law and stressed the need to clarify the situation of dependent workers and clear up the grey area between self-employed workers and employees with a dependent employment relationship with a view to combating the phenomenon of disguised employment, also called ‘bogus’ self-employment. The outcome of the public consultation on the Green Paper shows that most Member States and many social partners feel that national law and well-tested national legal procedures should be relied upon to resolve problems and uncertainty in the definition of an employment relationship. The Commission also draws the Honourable Member's attention to Eurofound’s study ‘Self-employed workers: industrial relations and working conditions’ European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, 2009; available at: http://www.eurofound.europa.eu/docs/comparative/tn0801018s/tn0801018s.pdf , which highlights the fact that self-employment is a very diverse phenomenon and that the most problematic situations, particularly in terms of employment and working conditions, are sometimes related to the elusion of regulations through ‘bogus’ self-employment. It also points to the lack of data on self-employed workers and stresses the need for further research on this issue. Against that background the Commission decided to undertake a comprehensive analysis of the legal concept of ‘employment relationship’ and of the problems encountered in drawing a dividing line between dependent employment and self-employment, including the issue of disguised employment and the main measures taken by Member States to combat the phenomenon. The findings of the analysis, which began in 2009 with an inventory by the European Labour Law Network of the situation and measures in all the Member States, were presented at a conference on the employment relationship in Bad Homburg, Germany, in November 2009. A report will be published soon. The Commission intends to continue analysing the problem and encouraging further debate. At this stage, it does not contemplate adopting a general definition of self-employed workers or drawing up a specific legal framework governing the labour issues facing genuine or ‘bogus’ self-employed workers.