100 50 150 3. European national programmes 15 15 4. Programmes in developing countries 5 5 5. Basic activities (e.g. secretariat services: personnel costs, office rent, office facilities, statutory meetings) 15 15 6. Information management (e.g. informatics infrastructures, information surveys) 5 5 7. Development, visibility and sustainability of the EDCTP programme (e.g., fundraising) 10 10 Total 400 200 600 This breakdown implies that 7.5 % of the costs can be considered as administrative costs (basic management costs, management of research information, programme promotion). If networking activities are to be considered as administrative costs, the percentage would increase to 12,5%. Nevertheless, both percentages are acceptable as this is a major new initiative comprising the setting up of a new legal entity. CONCLUSIONS Financial compatibility with the financial perspectives The proposal is compatible with the ceiling of Heading 3 of the financial perspective, as the €200 million are available under the sixth framework programme. (Amendment 1 to the legislative resolution) The Community contribution to the research on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis is complementary to the general Community strategy to fight these diseases and complements the proposed Regulation on aid for these poverty diseases in developing countries ( COM(2002)109 - COD 02 0051), and, in particular, the Community contribution to the Global Fund to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria, both from the general budget and via the EDF. Intellectual property rights As the EDCTP programme will for a large extent be financed by public funds the intellectual property rights question becomes imminent also for budgetary reasons. Article 2(3) of the Commission proposal states that “the financial participation of the Community and the rules relating to intellectual property rights shall be adopted jointly by means of an agreement to be concluded between the Commission and the common structure in accordance with the financial regulation application to the Community budget”. Your draftsman thinks that it would be inappropriate if this - or any other - legal entity with legal personality under private law but financed by public funds and designed to help developing countries in combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis could benefit from remunerations under patent laws and thus prevent developing countries from having access to medicine at the lowest possible prices. The agreement between the Commission and the common structure should therefore include a provision which excludes patentability of inventions and/or diagnostic therapeutic and surgical methods for the treatment of humans or animals in accordance with the rights granted to governments under article 27(2) and 27(3)a of the TRIPS agreement. The draftsman also believes that all research results should be immediately made available to the public by means of a written or oral description, by use, or in any other way so that it will be considered to form part of the “state of the art” under article 54 of the European Patent Convention and thus no longer a invention that can be considered to be a “novelty” under this convention, which is binding upon the EU Member States. Control of the management of the common structure The Commission must ensure a sufficient control of the