cooperation to prevent terrorist acts and find a favourable solution to them, in particular the taking of hostages, which has occurred regularly in Iraq over the last few months; 9. Condemns any attempt to find a sociological explanation and ideological justification for terrorist acts, which indicate only a ruthless dedication to killing and are the sign of a brutal lack of humanity; 10. Calls on the EU to offer its assistance and expertise for the drafting of a new Iraqi constitution that guarantees respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms; calls on the new Iraqi authorities to ensure that women's rights, particularly in the family and in the context of laws on personal status, are defended on a basis of equality between men and women,; 11. Urges the Council and the Commission to call for the immediate cessation of the use of torture and other cruel or degrading treatment of prisoners; calls for thorough, impartial, public and transparent investigation of allegations of torture and ill-treatment; calls for the application of appropriate measures against persons in whatever position or of whatever rank guilty of ordering and perpetrating such abuses or contributing to them; insists on the right of every detainee to a fair trial and imprisonment in accordance with the law; 12. Welcomes the prospect of the elections to the Transitional National Assembly by January 2005 as a major step towards the establishment of a democratic Iraq; welcomes the formation of the Independent Electoral Commission for Iraq, and the UN's leading role in advising the Iraqi Interim Government on the electoral process; asks for concrete action from the EU in establishing a climate of peace and security for the electoral process; 13. Welcomes ongoing efforts by the Interim Government of Iraq to develop its security; calls on the EU to play a special role in supporting regional development measures and programmes; 14. Welcomes the possibility of an international meeting to support the Iraqi political transition and Iraqi recovery, for the benefit of the Iraqi people and in the interests of stability in the region; calls on the EU to examine the idea of co-sponsoring an International Conference on Iraq; 15. Calls on the EU to actively contribute, through its expertise and long experience of working with the transition economies, and combining social cohesion with building strong market institutions, liberalisation and integration, to the establishment of an open, sustainable and diversified Iraqi market economy; 16. Encourages continuous EC assistance in the creation of a functioning customs administration, as well as the development of a legal system; 17. Reaffirms that oil and other natural resources must be administered fully and independently by the Iraqi authorities; 18. Urges the Council to increase humanitarian aid, in particular by providing the people of Iraq with the food and medical assistance they require, and ensure the proper protection of refugees and asylum-seekers; 19. Supports the European Commission proposal to allocate a further € 200 million EU contribution to Iraq's reconstruction in 2005, and urges the Council to use the flexibility instrument to implement that commitment