and capable of guaranteeing the Union’s effective and democratic functioning well into the future. After the opening ceremony on 4 October, the real work of the IGC began. As was only to be expected, by far the most complex issues were those relating to institutional affairs. The principal questions had to do with the composition of the Commission, the means of election, the competences of the President of the European Council, the status of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the calculation of qualified majorities. The issues were examined at the IGC meetings in the first half of October. The Ministerial Meeting of the Intergovernmental Conference of 27 October expanded the range of the discussion to include matters not addressed, or addressed only marginally, at previous meetings. In particular, the meeting considered the following themes: Presidency of the Council formations; Scope of qualified-majority voting; Non-institutional matters, with particular reference to economic and financial issues. The debate confirmed, stated Under-secretary Roberto Antonione, that Member States have differing positions and that the proposals in the Draft Treaty approved by the Convention are substantially balanced. It also became apparent that reopening debate on specific aspects of the draft treaty led only to the reiteration of conflicting positions, and not to the emergence of new consensus. The following conclusions may be drawn from the outcome of the meeting. A convergence of views is taking place regarding the presidency of council formations, although the matter has to be reviewed in the light of a comprehensive proposal for all the institutional structures of the future enlarged European Union; A vast majority of Member States opposes the institution of a Legislative Council. The Presidency has taken due note of this opposition, but will to do everything in its power to ensure that the Legislative Council is maintained in the Treaty as a proposal for the future and a possible development of the Council system; Member States still have divergent positions in respect of qualified majority voting. In light of this, the Presidency will consider what tools of consensus it should adopt, especially in relation to sensitive areas such as taxation, national resources, cooperation on criminal justice and policing. In any event, the Convention’s Draft Treaty will remain the main basis on which to build a balanced and ambitious agreement; The clearly excessive number of non-institutional matters raised by Member States was evidently incompatible with the time constraints of the IGC schedule that was established in Thessaloniki and confirmed in Brussels by the Heads of State and Government. Accordingly, the Presidency will examine these sets of issues on the basis of a selective approach, and identify those areas around which consensus seems to be forming that are alternative to the Draft Treaty, and require technical and editorial clarification. It will be up to Member States to decide on whether to insist on specific and minor points, and to bring them to the attention of Heads of State and Government. On the basis of the Convention’s Draft Treaty and the work done by European Union foreign ministers, the Presidency will formulate