their annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts in the national currency in accordance with the applicable national law. 2. An SPE shall prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts both in the national currency and in euro in Member States where the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply. Justification It is more appropriate for SPEs having their registered office in territory of a MS with a national currency different from the Euro to foresee the possibility to prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts both in the national currency and in euro. Amendment 6 2 Proposal for a regulation Article 42 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 42a Arbitration clause 1. The Statute may, in the form of an arbitration clause, provide for the referral to arbitrators of any disputes arising between shareholders, or between shareholders and the SPE, concerning its corporate relations. The Statute may also provide that the arbitration clause cover disputes with the directors. In that case, the arbitration clause shall be binding on the directors upon their acceptance of the post. 2. A ny amendment of the constituent act, introducing or removing the arbitration clause by a resolution of the shareholders under Article 27 must be approved by shareholders representing at least two ‑thirds of the share capital. Justification La previsione di mezzi alternativi di risoluzione delle controversie, quali l’arbitrato, appare particolarmente opportuna per la SPE in considerazione della sua natura di società “chiusa”. Da un lato, infatti, la compagine tendenzialmente ristretta della SPE e l’ampio spazio lasciato alla negoziazione tra gli azionisti nella definizione degli assetti patrimoniali e organizzativi della società, rischiano di accrescere i casi di conflitti interni o di stalli decisionali. Dall’altro lato, la natura chiusa della SPE può poi rendere più difficoltosa la liquidazione della partecipazione sociale. Il ricorso all’arbitrato appare poi particolarmente idoneo alla dimensione transnazionale della SPE. Amendment 6 3 Proposal for a regulation Article 43 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 43 a Severa bility clause A ny clause of the articles of association that is ineffective shall be severable and the remaining clauses of the articles of association shall continue to be effective. The ineffective clause shall be replaced by the corresponding clause of the sample articles of association until they have been corrected by a resolution of the shareholders . Where the sample articles of association make no provision for a corresponding clause, the ineffective clause shall be replaced by the law relating to limited-liability companies of the Member State in which the registered office of the SPE is situated . Justification The amendment aims to clarify which rules apply where individual clauses of the articles of association are ineffective. Amendment 6 4 Proposal for a regulation Article 45 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Member States shall notify the form of private limited-liability company referred to in the second paragraph of Article 4 to the Commission by 1 July 2010 at the latest . Member States shall notify the Commission