Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (25 November 2005) Vaccines cannot be stockpiled as no one knows the viral strain which could cause a pandemic. A policy document on public-private partnership between public bodies and vaccine manufacturers to deliver the influenza vaccine to the European Union population in the shortest possible time in the event of an influenza pandemic has been published See http://www.emea.eu.int/htms/human/pandemicinfluenza/pandemicinfluenza.htm following consultation between the Commission and Member States’ experts. A proposal is being negotiated for a project (Flusecure) to develop a library of seed stocks for the manufacture of the influenza vaccine and help accelerate the development of effective vaccines, especially for a pandemic. Member States have already placed orders for pandemic vaccines and others are considering doing so. In order to lend support to these efforts, the Commission has proposed a Solidarity Fund Regulation, currently under discussion in the Parliament and the Council, which could reimburse part of the costs Member States may incur during a pandemic. Concerning antivirals, the Commission facilitates the exchange of information and sharing of good practice in this area. On the request of the Commission, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) has conducted a review of scientific information on the use of antivirals during an influenza pandemic See http://europa.eu.int/comm/health/ph_threats/com/Influenza/influenza_key07_en.pdf . For both vaccines and antivirals, issues of equitable distribution of existing stocks to fight the disease at source have been put forward for joint coordination by the Member States and the Commission at EU level. The Commission is currently reviewing the EU influenza preparedness and response planning published in March 2004 and will then adopt by the end of November 2005 a communication on EU preparedness plans against pandemic flu. This would help coordination with national plans on the basis of the latest recommendations from the World Health Organisation and spells out the role and contribution of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the European Medicines Evolution Agency.