in the view of the rapporteur, is excessively narrow in respect of giving effect to the right to stand as a candidate in a member state other than one’s own. The problem is particularly acute with respect to potential candidates who hold dual nationality. Parliament’s interest is in maximising the number of people who choose to exercise their electoral rights to the full. In the age of increased citizen mobility across the internal frontiers of the Union, it is desirable to make electoral rights as portable as possible within the single political market. One recalls that the 1976 Act prohibits double voting (Article 9). It does not prohibit standing as a candidate in more than one electoral constituency. The matter of candidature, therefore, remains a matter for national law (Article 8). The ‘detailed arrangements’ prescribed for this Directive in Article 19(2) must be limited to what is strictly necessary to give effect to the two intended rights – that is, both to vote and to stand in a state other than one’s own. This includes arrangements for member states to ensure that the law is observed. The Council may not, however, introduce new conditions at the EU level for the exercise of the right to stand as a candidate other than or beyond those foreseen in national law. Directive 93/109 is therefore disproportionate in at least three respects. First, according to its Article 3(b), the citizen can vote or stand ‘unless deprived of those rights pursuant to Articles 6 and 7’. Under Article 7 the state of residence is obliged to stop a citizen from voting as soon as it is proven that this person is deprived of those rights ‘through an individual civil law or criminal law decision’ in the home state. The state of residence must take such preventative action regardless of whether the individual would have been deprived of his or her electoral rights according to the national law of the state of residence concerned for the same misdemeanour and in the same manner. The state of residence is not entitled to use its discretion on a case by case basis in the light of its own national legislation. Therefore, it could be that an individual is unfairly penalised and discriminated against on the grounds of his or her nationality. Moreover, under Article 6(1) a citizen is precluded from standing if legally deprived of his or her right to stand ‘under either the law of the Member State of residence or the law of his home Member State’. The second aspect provokes the same criticism as formulated above with respect to the right to vote. Interestingly, this blanket prohibition only pertains to European Parliamentary elections. As far as municipal elections are concerned, the state of residence has a power of discretion: ‘… may provide that … shall be precluded …’ Article 5(1) of Council Directive 94/80/EC of December 1994 laying down detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in municipal elections by citizens of the Union residing in a Member