schools, youth clubs and leisure centres, or institutions for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts; (d) the offence was committed in or near schools, youth clubs and leisure centres, or institutions for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts; (e) the offender is a doctor, pharmacist, court official, police officer, customs officer, prison officer, probation officer, teacher, instructor or works in an educational establishment and abused this position to commit the offence; (e) the offender has abused his or her position or placed another person under moral, psychological and/or physical duress in order to commit the offence. (f) the offender has been convicted of one or more similar offences by a final judgement in a Member State of the Union. Amendment 17 Article 6 Article 6 Mitigating Circumstances Without prejudice to any other mitigating circumstances defined in their national legislation, Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the penalties referred to in Article 4 can be reduced if the offender has supplied the competent authorities with valuable information for the enquiry or the collection of evidence about the identity of other offenders, or has helped to identify drug-dealing networks. Deleted Amendment 18 Article 7, paragraph 1, point (b) (b) an authority to take decisions on behalf of the legal person , or (b) an authority to take decisions on the legal person's account , or Amendment 19 Article 8, point (f) (f) the confiscation of property that was the object of the offence and the proceeds and advantages derived directly or indirectly from the offence. (f) the confiscation of the instrumentalities and property that were the objects of the offence and the proceeds and advantages derived directly or indirectly from the offence. Amendment 20 Article 9, paragraph 1, point (b) (b) the offender is one of their nationals; (b) the offender is one of their nationals or is permanently or temporarily resident on their territory; Amendment 21 Article 10, paragraph 2 2. If several Member States have jurisdiction over an offence referred to in Article 2 or 3, they shall consult one another with a view to co-ordinating their action and, where appropriate, to bringing a prosecution. They shall make full use of judicial cooperation and other mechanisms. 2. If several Member States have jurisdiction over an offence referred to in Article 2 or 3, they shall consult one another with a view to co-ordinating their action and, where appropriate, to bringing a prosecution. That coordination shall take place through all available cooperation mechanisms, both police-related and judicial. Amendment 22 Article 11, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 They shall immediately send the Commission and the General Secretariat of the Council the text of the provisions transposing the obligations imposed upon them by this framework decision. They shall immediately send the Commission the text of the provisions transposing the obligations imposed upon them by this framework decision. Amendment 23 Article 11, paragraph 3 3. On the basis of the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall draw up a report evaluating the application of the provisions