Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (16 April 2010) The Commission is deeply concerned about intolerance and discrimination based on religion or belief, wherever they take place. The protection of the rights of persons belonging to religious minorities is central to freedom of religion or belief. The Commission expressed shock and sadness at the tragic killing in Naga Hammadi on Coptic Christmas Eve. The Commission was pleased that in this case the authorities took rapid action to find and arrest those suspected of committing this awful crime. The Commission has called for a thorough investigation, and has pointed out that bringing those responsible to justice will send a clear signal that violence based on religious hatred and intolerance is not acceptable. The Commission is aware of, and is very concerned about, the constraints that Christians and also other religious minorities are facing in Egypt, despite the fact that Egypt’s Constitution provides for freedom of belief and the free practice of religion. The Commission is also disturbed at the persisting intolerance and religious tension. The agreed joint EU‑Egypt European Neighbourhood Policy Action Plan provides for the EU and Egypt to ‘cooperate to combat all forms of discrimination, intolerance, racism and xenophobia and in particular hate or defamatory discourse based on religion, beliefs, race, or origin, inter alia through exchange of best practice and legislative action, as required’. The action plan also provides for the promotion of ‘efforts, in Egypt and the EU, towards increasing tolerance, understanding and respect for all religions and cultures’. The Commission monitors progress of the implementation of the action plan, and frequently raises issues related to religious tolerance in meetings with the Egyptian Government. An EU‑Egypt Sub-committee meeting on ‘Political Matters: Human Rights and Democracy — International and regional issues’ took place in Brussels in March 2010, and we urge again more measures to be taken to protect and eliminate discrimination against religious minorities. The Commission is concerned, for example, that the introduction of a new Law on Houses of Worship to set equal criteria for the construction, extension, renovation and repair of places of worship has been delayed. This new law would cut administrative obstacles to church-building and repair. The EU provides financial support for projects designed to promote human rights, democratisation and good governance in Egypt. The Commission is currently implementing a EUR 5 million assistance programme of this nature. It includes support to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior in the field of human rights and democratisation, support to the Ombudsman Office of the National Council for Women, support to the establishment of an Ombudsman Office at the National Council for Human Rights and support to the General Federation of NGOs and Foundations. EUR 10 million is earmarked for commitment in 2010 for a programme to support the modernisation of the administration of justice and the enhancement of security. Support is also being provided to civil society organisations in the framework of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights, through projects aimed at fostering a culture of human