fight child abuse (e.g. South Africa), to improve juvenile justice (e.g. Cameroon), to improve birth registration (e.g. Bangladesh) or to support social protection for human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) (e.g. Lesotho, Swaziland). The Commission has also approved a programme which allocated EUR 15 million to the fight against all forms of child labour in African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries using basic education and training, in relation to the strategic partnership between EC and ILO. The Commission is also assessing in greater depth the attention to children's rights and needs in the end of term reviews of the Commission’s bilateral programmes with ACP countries under the ninth European Development Fund (EDF). In the coming months, it will also enhance the identification of opportunities to better mainstream and also identify specific actions related to children rights and needs, in the coming generation of country strategy papers for the next 10th EDF. Children are also one of the priority areas of the thematic programme's chapter ‘investing in people’, which will guide the use of the global budget instruments from the Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument (DCECI). The Commission would also like to recall a number of ongoing projects which were launched even before 2005, namely in the (ENP) region: in Egypt a EUR 20 million project aiming at improving the condition of children at risk of marginalisation, including working children engaged in hazardous work and other worst forms of child labour (2003); in Moldova a EUR 25 million project for the development of integrated social services for vulnerable children and families at risk (2003); in Asia, in Pakistan a EUR 5 million project aiming at combating child labour implemented in partnership with ILO; and in Latin America a EUR 15 million project on poverty reduction in municipalities in the Northern and North-Eastern regions of Brazil (2005‑06), which aim, inter alia at reducing children and adolescents' vulnerability to violence and abuse. As regards to the specific question on whether the Commission will propose that the EU adopt ‘guidelines on child labour’, this possibility will be assessed in the next Inter-Service Group on children’s rights in the light of the December 2005 evaluation of the above mentioned EU guidelines on children in armed conflicts.