of their cultural and civil rights; whereas members of certain minorities such as Ahwasis, Kurds and Baluchs even face torture and execution, L. whereas members of the religious community of the Baha'is cannot exercise their faith, are exposed to severe persecution and deprived of virtually all civil rights (e.g. property rights and access to higher education), and whereas their religious sites are being vandalised, M. whereas several activists belonging to the women's rights movement are being or have been prosecuted for their involvement in the 'one million signatures' campaign, which seeks to obtain the repeal of laws that discriminate against women and which plans to submit those one million signatures to the National Parliament (Majlis); whereas Iran is still not a party to the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, N. whereas hundreds of professors have been removed from their teaching posts under the accusation of being too secular and whereas numerous students have been arrested following protests, such as those participating in the demonstrations for the National University Students' Day on 7 December 2007, O. whereas the registration of candidates for the Majlis parliamentary elections in March 2008 ended on 10 January, the Ministry of the Interior will be announcing the decisions from 22 January, and the Guardian Council, which supervises the validity of the elections according to the Constitution, has the right to disqualify candidates, On EU-Iran relations: P. whereas the Comprehensive Dialogue between the EU and Iran was suspended by Iran in December 2003 and no meeting within the framework of the EU–Iran Human Rights Dialogue has taken place since June 2004, Q. whereas the EU's relations with Iran in recent years have been based on a threefold approach characterised by negotiations on a Trade and Cooperation Agreement, political dialogue and a human rights dialogue, and whereas these three aspects cannot be separated, On the nuclear issue: 1. Reaffirms that the proliferation risks of the Iranian nuclear programme remain a source of serious concern to the EU and the international community, as expressed very clearly in UNSC Resolutions 1696, 1737, and 1747; therefore regrets that Iran has still not complied with its international obligations to suspend all enrichment-related and reprocessing activities; 2. Expresses its support for the EU's efforts to find a negotiated long-term solution on the nuclear issue with Iran and underlines the essential role to be played by the IAEA; 3. Notes the progress made on the implementation of the IAEA-Iran work plan, and repeats its calls on Iran to restore the transparency of its nuclear programme by providing full, clear and credible answers to the IAEA, to resolve all outstanding issues and concerns on this programme, including topics which could have a military dimension, to fully implement the provisions of the Comprehensive Safeguard Agreement including its subsidiary arrangements, and to ratify and implement the Additional Protocol; 4. Reiterates its full support for the UN Security Council resolution adopted under Article 41, Chapter VII of the UN Charter; endorses the European Council conclusions of 14 December 2007; welcomes the agreement reached