categories of licence: – either on the driving licence – or on the driver qualification card drawn up in accordance with the model shown in Annex II. The driver qualification card issued by Member States shall be mutually recognised. When the card is issued, the competent authorities shall check the validity of the driving licence whose number is mentioned on the card. 2. The following Community code shall be added to the list of harmonised Community codes as laid down in Annexes I and Ia to Directive 91/439/EEC: 95. Driver holding a CPC complying with the obligation of professional competence referred to in Article 3 until .…. (e.g. 95............. 01.01.2012). 3. (a) A driver referred to in Article 1(b) who drives vehicles used for the carriage of goods by road shall prove that he has the qualification and training provided for in this Directive by means of the driver's certificate provided for in Regulation (EC) No 484/2002 Regulation (EC) No 484/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 1 March 2002 amending Council Regulations (EEC) No 881/92 and (EEC) No 3118/93 for the purposes of establishing a driver attestation (OJ L 76, 19.3.2002, p. 1). . In addition to the certificate, the Member State may issue him with the driver qualification card provided for in Annex II, marked with the relevant Community code. (b) A driver referred to in Article 1(b) who drives vehicles used for the carriage of passengers by road shall prove that he has the qualification and training provided for in this Directive by means of: – either the Community code marked on the Community model driving licence, where he is the holder of such a licence; or – the driver qualification card provided for in Annex II, marked with the relevant Community code; or – a national certificate whose validity on their territory is mutually recognised by the Member States. Article 11 Adaptation to scientific and technical progress The amendments necessary to adapt Annexes I and II to scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12(2). Article 12 Committee procedure 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply , having regard to Article 8 thereof. The period provided for in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be three months. 3. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. Article 13 Report Before ... * Eight years after the entry into force of this Directive. the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions a report making an initial evaluation of the implementation of this Directive, in particular with regard to the equivalence of the various initial qualification systems provided for in Article 3 , and the efficiency thereof in achieving the target level of qualification . The report shall be accompanied by appropriate proposals, if necessary. Article 14 Transposition and implementation 1. Member States shall bring into