to be given by the Parliament on the recommendation of the Council; D. Whereas, at the present time, the legislative procedures for modifying the constituent acts of the various agencies, in order to bring them into line with the new Financial Regulation, are still under way; E. Whereas this new situation called for a clarification of the rules applicable with reference to the discharge to be given to these bodies for the 2001 financial year; F. Whereas the Commission, in the context of this new situation, provided a clarification with regard to the rules applicable to the discharge procedure concerning these bodies in its note of 3 February 2003 to the Directors of the agencies, and the Committee on Budgetary control examined the matter at its meeting of 10 February 2003; G. Whereas the fact that the new Financial Regulation is applicable from 1 January 2003 had as a consequence that the Parliament is not called to give discharge to those agencies that had completed before 31 December 2002 their discharge procedures for the financial year 2001 under the previous rules ; H. Whereas Article 145 of the new Financial Regulation and Article 94 JO L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 72 (Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002) of the Commission framework Financial Regulation for the community bodies referred to in Article 185 of Council Regulation n° 1605/2002, provide for Parliament to consider a report concerning discharge for a given financial year to be given to those bodies by 30 April of the year n+2; furthermore, in case of a proposal by the competent Committee postponing the discharge decision it provides for the resolution to give the reasons for the postponement; 1. Welcomes the fact that in this new legal framework Parliament is the competent authority for giving discharge to those bodies and considers that one of its longstanding demands for discharge to be given by it to the agencies as a means of enhancing transparency, accountability and democratic control is thus satisfied; 2. Stresses that in order to fulfil its responsibilities as discharge authority in the context of this new framework it intends to work in very close co-operation with the agencies and expects these bodies equally to respond accordingly; 3. Regrets that in the circumstances related to this transition from the previous financial rules to the new ones, there was not sufficient time to obtain the full information from these bodies that it deems necessary and adequate in order to fulfil its role as discharge authority; 4. Expects therefore to receive, as soon as possible, all relevant information from these bodies in reply to the requests it will formulate and intends, in a spirit of loyal co-operation among institutions, to transmit all such information to the Council which is competent for a recommendation to Parliament with respect to discharge; 5. Expresses its intention to consider its decision on the discharge to these bodies once it has received all such information enabling it to reach a decision.