Parliament for approval. If the committee takes the view that the proposal entails a substantive change, it shall propose that Parliament reject the proposal. In either case, Parliament shall take a decision by means of a single vote, without amendments or debate. Rule 80 a Recasting 1. When a Commission proposal recasting Community legislation is submitted to Parliament, that proposal shall be referred to the committee responsible for legal affairs and to the committee responsible for the subject matter. 2. The committee responsible for legal affairs shall examine the proposal in accordance with the arrangements agreed at interinstitutional level Interinstitutional Agreement of 28 November 2001 on a more structured use of the recasting technique for legal acts, point 9 (OJ C 77, 28.3.2002, p. 1). with a view to checking that it entails no substantive changes other than those identified as such in the proposal. For the purpose of that examination, amendments to the text of the proposal shall be inadmissible. However, the second subparagraph of Rule 80(3) shall apply as regards the provisions which remain unchanged in the recasting proposal. 3. If the committee responsible for legal affairs considers that the proposal does not entail any substantive changes other than those identified as such in the proposal, it shall inform the committee responsible. In such a case, over and above the conditions laid down in Rules 150 and 151, amendments shall be admissible within the committee responsible only if they concern those parts of the proposal which contain changes. However, amendments to the parts which have remained unchanged may be admitted by way of exception and on a case-by-case basis by the chair of the above committee if he or she considers that this is necessary for pressing reasons relating to the internal logic of the text or because the amendments are inextricably linked to other admissible amendments. Such reasons must be stated in a written justification to the amendments. 4. If the committee responsible for legal affairs considers that the proposal entails substantive changes other than those which have been identified as such in the proposal, it shall propose that Parliament reject the proposal and it shall inform the committee responsible that it has done so. In such a case the President shall request the Commission to withdraw the proposal. If the Commission does so, the President shall hold the procedure to be superfluous and shall inform the Council accordingly. If the Commission does not withdraw its proposal, Parliament shall refer the matter back to the committee responsible for the subject matter, which shall consider it in accordance with the normal procedure. Rule 81 Implementing measures 1. When the Commission forwards a draft of implementing measures to Parliament, the President shall refer the draft of measures to the committee responsible for the act from which the implementing measures derive. When the procedure with associated committees has been applied with regard to the basic act, the committee responsible shall invite each of the associated committees to communicate its views orally or by letter. 2. The chair of the committee responsible shall