Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (3 September 2008) 1. Investment project in Mochovce units 3&4 has been examined following the procedure prescribed by Articles 41 to 43 of the Euratom Treaty. Following discussions between the Commission and the investor, as provided for in Article 43 of the Euratom Treaty, the Commission has assessed all relevant aspects of this investment project which relate to the objectives of the Euratom Treaty. The commitment to shut down Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) Jaslovské Bohunice units 1&2 forms part of the Accession Treaty of the Slovak Republic to the EU and is not open for discussion anymore. 2. The Commission Viewpoint adopted on 15 July 2008 on the project of Slovenské Elektrárne to complete Mochovce units 3&4 focuses in particular on the safety and security aspects. Within this framework, the Commission recommended a set of additional measures (see press release) http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=IP/08/1143&format=HTML&aged=0&language=FR&guiLanguage=en . The Commission based its assessment on the best practices available within the EU, as there is no yet Community wide legislation for nuclear safety reference levels adopted. The investor, under the supervision of the national regulator, has the responsibility to assess the situation and decide which specific technical measures have to be undertaken in order to ensure an equivalent level of protection as the one provided by a ‘full containment’. 3. In 2007, the Commission launched two initiatives to further debate different aspects of nuclear energy. The first is the ‘High Level Group on Nuclear Safety and Waste Management’ involving nuclear safety regulatory authorities to examine and identify nuclear safety issues for priority handling and recommending actions to be taken at EU level. The second, the ‘European Nuclear Energy Forum’, provides a platform for a broad and transparent stakeholder discussion on the opportunities and risks of nuclear energy. The decision whether to include or not nuclear energy in the national energy mix belongs solely to each individual Member State. Should Member States decide to invest in new nuclear power generation, the Commission will exercise its available powers to ensure that new projects meet the highest standards of safety, security and non-proliferation as required by the Euratom Treaty.