{ "context": [ [ "F. Lynn McNulty", [ "Lt. Col. Frederick “F.” Lynn McNulty (1939 - 2012) was the first Director of Information Systems Security for the U.S. State Department, a pioneer in the field of cybersecurity, and has been characterized as the “father” of U.S. federal information security.", " His peers eulogized him as a tireless advocate for the security of the nation.", " He was an early and persistent champion of information security in government." ] ], [ "Anna University K B Chandrashekar Research Centre", [ "The Anna University - K. B. Chandrashekar Research Centre (AU-KBC) is a multi disciplinary training centre located in the Madras Institute of Technology (MIT).", " The centre was founded by volunteer K. B. Chandrashekar, MIT alumnus and co-founder of Great Lakes Institute of Management, Chennai.", " The AU-KBC Research Centre is a first of its kind, a public-private research centre in India, being the partnership between a wholly for-profit company (KBC Research Foundation Private Limited, KBCRF) and a state institution (Anna University).", " The Center has no employees, and all researchers stationed there are employees of the for-profit company KBCRF.", " The Centre's original goal, when it had its own employees, was to generate research and products of international quality.", " Its current goal is to create revenue for KBCRF and its sister for-profit concerns." ] ], [ "(ISC)²", [ "The International Information System Security Certification Consortium, or (ISC)², is a non-profit organization which specializes in information security education and certifications.", " It has been described as the \"world's largest IT security organization\".", " The most widely known certification offered by (ISC)² is the Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) certification." ] ], [ "Information security awareness", [ "Information security awareness is an evolving part of information security that focuses on raising consciousness regarding potential risks of the rapidly evolving forms of information and the rapidly evolving threats to that information which target human behavior.", " As threats have matured and information has increased in value, attackers have increased their capabilities and expanded to broader intentions, developed more attack methods and methodologies and are acting on more diverse motives.", " As information security controls and processes have matured, attacks have matured to circumvent controls and processes.", " Attackers have targeted and successfully exploited individuals human behavior to breach corporate networks and critical infrastructure systems.", " Targeted individuals who are unaware of information and threats may unknowingly circumvent traditional security controls and processes and enable a breach of the organization.", " In response, information security awareness is maturing.", " Cybersecurity as a business problem has dominated the agenda of most chief information officers (CIO)s, exposing a need for countermeasures to today's cyber threat landscape.", " The goal of Information security awareness is to make everyone aware that they are susceptible to the opportunities and challenges in today’s threat landscape, change human risk behaviors and create or enhance a secure organizational culture." ] ], [ "SANS Institute", [ "The SANS Institute (officially the Escal Institute of Advanced Technologies) is a private U.S. for-profit company founded in