technical areas are linked by key cross-cutting topics such as the nuclear fuel cycle, actinide chemistry, risk analysis and safety assessment and even societal and governance issues. Amendment 17 Annex I, subtitle 'Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection', subtitle 'Activities', bullet 1 Implementation oriented research and development activities on deep geological disposal of spent fuel and long-lived radioactive waste and, as appropriate, demonstration on the technologies and safety, and to underpin the development of a common European view on the main issues related to the management and disposal of waste. Research on partitioning and transmutation and/or other concepts aimed at reducing the amount and/or hazard of the waste for disposal. Implementation oriented research and development activities on deep geological disposal of spent fuel and long-lived radioactive waste and, as appropriate, demonstration on the technologies and safety, and to underpin the development of a common European view on the main issues related to the management and disposal of waste. Specific activities connected with the characterisation and behaviour of this type of waste under conditions of extended temporary storage. Research on partitioning and transmutation and/or other concepts aimed at reducing the amount and/or hazard of the waste for disposal. Justification Account must be taken of the fact that most Member States have to resort to extended temporary storage of spent fuel, waste which is highly active and long-lived. This must therefore be taken into account in research activities on the management of nuclear waste and its environmental impact, with particular reference to partitioning and/or transmutation. This is the most appropriate option, since the fuel is not simply stored in the form in which it emerges from the plant, but efforts are made to reduce its volume and the length of time it remains active. Amendment 18 Annex1, subtitle "Nuclear Fission and radiation protection", subtitle "Activities", bullet 2 Research to underpin the continued safe operation of existing reactor systems (including fuel cycle facilities), taking into account new challenges such as life-time extension and development of new advanced safety assessment methodologies (both the technical and human element), and to assess the potential and safety aspects of future reactor systems in the short and medium term, thereby maintaining the high safety standards already achieved within the EU. Research that continues to underpin the continued safe operation of existing reactor systems (including fuel cycle facilities) and new-generation reactors and to minimize the risk of human and organisational error , taking into account new challenges such as life-time extension and development of new advanced safety assessment methodologies (both the technical and human element), and to assess the potential and safety aspects of future reactor systems in the short and medium term, thereby further improving the high safety standards already achieved within the EU. With this in mind, emphasis will be placed in particular on the researching and implementation of methodologies capable of preventing human or organisational error (individual or collective). An appropriate ‘safety culture’ will also be encouraged in all undertakings, thereby ensuring that both the body owning the plant and its workers have safety as a fundamental priority objective.