comprise separate decisions or part of the same. The Legal Service advice (SJ-143/01) points out that Parliament has a duty to close the accounts but that there is no legal obstacle to taking a separate decision to close the accounts. However, closure of the accounts remains part of the discharge package (see article 3 of Annex V) and should remain so. A problem only arises when discharge is not granted. The Legal Service maintains that the Parliament is bound by a duty to take note of the closure of accounts in order to ensure the security of future accounts. The accounts are drawn up by the Commission but closed by Parliament who might legitimately question the figures but should nevertheless note their closure. There is however an argument for delaying the closure of accounts if discharge is postponed in order to maintain the unity of the decision to end a budget cycle. However the accounts should eventually be closed by the end of the discharge year N+2, regardless of the final political decision on discharge. Discharge for other institutions Rule 93 of the Rules of procedure also needs to be amended so that the procedure provided for in Annex V applies to the discharge decision on Parliament and the other institutions equally. Although the principal task of the Budgetary Control Committee is to assess the Commission’s financial management, it also is responsible for granting discharge to itself, to the Court of Justice, Court of Auditors, the two advisory committees and two satellite agencies as well as separate discharge decisions for the European Development Fund and the European Coal and Steel Community (until the latter expires). Strictly speaking the Commission is responsible for the entire Community budget and legally only one discharge decision is required - on the implementation of the Community budget in its entirety See article 89(4) of the present Financial Regulation. . However, for practical and historical reasons, each institution has been granted a degree of autonomy over its own administrative budget. The Commission cannot be held responsible for such decisions. Hence the separate discharge reports. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgetary Control calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text of the Rules of Procedure Amendments by Committee on Budgetary Control Amendment 1 Rule 93 Discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the budget The provisions concerning the implementing procedures for the decision on the granting of discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget in accordance with the financial provisions of the Treaties establishing the European Communities and the Financial Regulation are attached to these Rules as an annex (1). This annex shall be adopted pursuant to Rule 181(2). Discharge in respect of implementation of the budget The provisions concerning the implementing procedures for the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget in accordance with the financial provisions of the Treaties establishing the European Communities and the Financial Regulation are attached to these Rules as an annex