it would be appropriate for Parliament to be involved in this consultation process. Particularly as all the EU institutions have embarked on an important exercise in defining transparency requirements (under the Aarhus Convention). For all these reasons, Parliament must keep a watchful eye on the progress of this consultation process. The requirement for transparency and good governance is not simply the concern of citizens affected by the actions of a policy-oriented bank. It also concerns the shareholders affected by the activities of an organisation which continues to operate as an investment bank. These shareholders are states and, in the case of activity carried out on the Council’s instructions, the EU itself. Ultimately, in other words, the taxpayer. The EIB has explicitly recognised OLAF's competence and powers. There still remains the problem of prudential oversight of the funds raised by the EIB itself. Parliament has been repeating for the last five years that the only legitimate oversight authority within the European central bank system is the ECB itself (as the alternative, the Banque de Luxembourg, notwithstanding its expertise in the field, does not meet the expectations of the citizens of the EU, or indeed of the international financial community). When it comes to governance, moreover, the international press does not accuse the EIB of any lack of prudence, but of possible conflicts of interest at senior management level. As its Management Committee is recruited from prominent members of the European financial world, such problems are inevitable. They could be countered more effectively by formulating, and publicising, a strict ethical code. We do not doubt that the EIB will produce, as it has already begun to do, an annual review of the efforts it has made to take Parliament’s recommendations into account. It would be appropriate for this review to be annexed to its annual report. This would enable the increasingly fruitful cooperation between the EIB and Parliament to progress from ‘excellent’ to ‘exemplary’! PROCEDURE Title The activity report for 2003 of the European Investment Bank References 2004/2187(INI) Basis in Rules of Procedure Rules 112(2) and 45 Committee responsible Date authorisation announced in plenary ECON 18.11.2004 Committee(s) asked for opinion(s) Date announced in plenary Not delivering opinion(s) Date of decision Enhanced cooperation Date announced in plenary Motion(s) for resolution(s) included in report Rapporteur(s) Date appointed Alain Lipietz 21.9.2004 Previous rapporteur(s) Discussed in committee 22.10.2004 18.01.2005 2.02.2005 Date adopted 2.2.2005 Result of final vote for: against: abstentions: 40 5 Members present for the final vote Zsolt László Becsey, Pervenche Berès, Pier Luigi Bersani, Udo Bullmann, Ieke van den Burg, Elisa Ferreira, José Manuel García-Margallo y Marfil, Robert Goebbels, Gunnar Hökmark, Karsten Friedrich Hoppenstedt, Ian Hudghton, Christopher Huhne, Sophia in 't Veld, Othmar Karas, Piia-Noora Kauppi, Wolf Klinz, Christoph Konrad, Guntars Krasts, Kurt Joachim Lauk, Enrico Letta, Astrid Lulling, Gay Mitchell, Cristobal Montoro Romero, Joseph Muscat, John Purvis, Alexander Radwan, Bernhard Rapkay, Karin Riis-Jørgensen, Dariusz Rosati, Eoin Ryan, Antolín Sánchez Presedo, Manuel António dos Santos, Peter Skinner, Margarita Starkevičiūtė, Ivo Strejček, Sahra Wagenknecht Substitutes present for the final vote Alain Lipietz, Sarah Ludford, Diamanto Manolakou, Antonis