Answer given by Ms Geoghegan-Quinn on behalf of the Commission (13 September 2011) The Commission adopted on 29 June 2011 the communication ‘A budget for Europe 2020’ COM(2011)500 final. . This document underlines the particular importance given to research and innovation within the context of the Europe 2020 strategy, which aims at economic growth and solving societal challenges. In this context, the Commission proposes to allocate EUR 80 billion for the 2014-20 period for the Common Strategic Framework for Research and Innovation. This funding will be complemented by important support for research and innovation in the Structural Funds as is also foreseen in the actual budget period. In pursuing this goal, major efforts on the side of the European Union will be undertaken to support activities covering the entire innovation cycle in fields related to health, food security, energy, transport, climate change and others. For each of them and according to its characteristics, the Union will set specific objectives and will support worthy mechanisms and projects to attain them. As far as EU ethics governance of research is concerned, all Member States have regulations that govern the ethics of scientific research and they implement some form of ethical review of research proposals, either at national level, or more commonly, at local level through the use of local research ethics committees. Regulation of ethical issues as such remains the responsibility of individual Member States, reflecting the ethical pluralism and the principle of subsidiarity that characterises the European Union. Therefore, an initiative for a universal code of scientific ethics as part of the EU treaties can only be initiated by the Member States. However, a common set of basic shared values does exist at EU level as embodied in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, adopted in Nice in 2000 and now an integral part of the Lisbon Treaty. It is worth noting that there is a long list of Community regulations that are relevant to research ethics. It includes applications of biotechnology, information technologies and several areas of biomedical sciences. For example, in February 2008, the Commission adopted a Code of Conduct for Responsible Nanosciences and Nanotechnologies Research. Through the Ethics Review, the European Union ensures the compliance of Framework Programme participants with the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7) ethics framework. The Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, with the help of external independent experts, conducts an ethics review for the entire ‘research family’ (Commission Directorates-General, research centres and agencies carrying our research or research funding activities) to ensure that Commission-funded sensitive research proposals are ethically sound (use of human biological material, involvement of vulnerable people in research activities, use of non-human primates etc.). In order to equip itself with expertise on ethics, the Commission in 1991 set up the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies (EGE), an independent advisory group, with the mandate to advise the Commission on ethical questions relating to sciences and new technologies, at the request of the Commission or on its own initiative (EC(2009)10353). On 22 March 2011, the President of the Commission requested the EGE to