well as the European Parliament and the Council detailed explanations of its reasons for not acting on the initiative . Justification The Commission should arrive at legal and political conclusions on the initiative. The communication should contain both types of conclusions. The change in the deadline aims to reflect the achievements of the new framework agreement. See also the justification to recital 17. Amendment 48 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The communication referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall be notified to the organiser of the citizens' initiative as well as to the European Parliament and the Council and shall be made public. 2. The communication referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall be notified to the organisers as well as to the European Parliament and the Council and shall be made public. Justification See the justifications for amendments to Article 3. Amendment 49 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The organiser shall destroy all statements of support received for a given citizens' initiative and any copies thereof at the latest one month after submitting that initiative to the Commission in accordance with Article 10 or 18 months after the date of registration of a proposed citizens' initiative, whichever is the earlier . Unless the proceedings are the subject of litigation, the organisers shall destroy all statements of support received for a given citizens' initiative and any copies thereof at the latest two months after the publication of the Commission communication referred to in point (b) of Article 11(1). In the event of litigation, they shall be destroyed one month after the conclusion of the litigation. Save where the competent authorities of Member States have not yet concluded their verification of statements of support , t hey shall also be destroyed if a proposed citizens' initiative has not been submitted to the Commission within 18 months after the date of its registration . Justification The regulation should take into account the possibility that these documents could be needed in a possible litigation. Amendment 50 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The competent authority shall destroy all statements of support and copies thereof that it has received for the purpose of carrying out the verification in accordance with Article 9(2), at the latest one month after issuing the certificate referred to therein. The competent authority shall destroy all statements of support and copies thereof that it has received for the purpose of carrying out the verification in accordance with Article 9(2), at the latest two months after issuing the certificate referred to therein. In the event of litigation, they shall be destroyed one month after the conclusion of the litigation. Justification See the previous justification. Amendment 51 Proposal for a regulation Article 13 – paragraph 1 – introductory wording Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Member States shall ensure that organisers resident or established on their territory shall be liable under their civil or criminal law