in an enlarged European Union’ COM(2004) 379 final, 28.05.2004 . The idea of making 2007 the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All was born out of the evaluation of the results achieved through publication of that Green Paper. 2. ORIGIN AND CONTENT OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL DECISION In its evaluation of the contributions made by national, regional and local authorities, specialised bodies, NGOs and the social partners to the debate on equality and non‑discrimination in response to the Green Paper, the Commission pinpointed three priority areas for the future Community financing. These areas, which are set out in a Communication entitled ‘Non-discrimination and equal opportunities for all - a Framework strategy’, are: information and awareness raising, analysis and monitoring of the impact of anti-discrimination legislation, and networking between the people involved in the fight against discrimination COM(2005) 224 final, 1.6.2005, p. 4. . In the same Communication, the Commission announced its intention to promote this programme by organising a "European Year of Equal Opportunities for All’, which essentially hinges on the four following objectives: 1. Raising public awareness of people’s rights in the field of equality and non‑discrimination; 2. Fuelling the debate on ways to strengthen social participation by under‑represented groups; 3. Celebrating diversity; 4. Promoting respect and tolerance. As to implementation of the decision, the Commission plans to develop ‘operational guidelines’ which are to serve as a basis for the ‘national strategic plans’ that Member States must submit to the Commission by December 2006. Once approved by the Commission, those plans would lead on to delegation of budgetary implementing powers to the national bodies responsible for financial management of the projects. 3. RAPPORTEUR’S OPINION The European Union now has legislation in the field of combating discrimination. However, many European citizens do not know that this legislation exists or know little about it. Your rapporteur is therefore wholly in favour of a media event on the scale of a ‘European Year’ being organised, in that this is an excellent tool for raising awareness among, and providing information to, the European public. Moreover, the EP recently clearly expressed itself in favour of this, when it urged the Council, the Commission and the Member States to promote and support the ‘values and practices underlying the fight against discrimination, including through the use of awareness-raising campaigns’ Moraes Report, paragraph 58, second indent. . This is also something explicitly provided for in Directives 2000/43/EC (Article 10) and 2000/78/EC (Article 12), under which the Member States are required to bring the provisions adopted with regard to equal treatment to the attention of the people concerned ‘by all appropriate means’. Furthermore, in view of the delays in certain Member States in the transposition of the directives referred to above, and the infringement proceedings the Commission has had to open against some of them, your rapporteur hopes that the European Year of Equal Opportunities will mobilise the general public and thereby create a climate which brings pressure to bear on the Member States that are dragging their feet. Your rapporteur therefore suggests that the emphasis be