shall not be required to apply this Regulation to conflicts of law arising solely between such different systems of law or sets of rules. Amendment 49 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 1 – point a (a) the formal rules applicable to agreements on the choice of applicable law; and (a) the formal requirements applicable to agreements on the choice of applicable law pursuant to Article 3b (2) to (4) ; and Amendment 51 Proposal for a regulation Article 10 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 However, effect shall also be given to an agreement on the choice of the applicable law concluded in accordance with the law of a participating Member State before the date of application of this Regulation, provided that it fulfils the conditions set out in the first paragraph of Article 3(3) . However, effect shall also be given to an agreement on the choice of the applicable law concluded before the date of application of this Regulation, provided that it complies with Articles 3a and 3b . Amendment 52 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 1 1. Without prejudice to the obligations of the participating Member States pursuant to Article 351 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, this Regulation shall not affect the application of bilateral or multilateral conventions to which one or more participating Member States are party at the time of adoption of this Regulation and which relate to the subjects covered by it . 1. This Regulation shall not affect the application of international conventions to which one or more participating Member States are party at the time when this Regulation is adopted or when the decision referred to in Article 1(2) is adopted and which lay down conflict-of-law rules relating to divorce or separation . Amendment 53 Proposal for a regulation Article 11 – paragraph 2 2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 , this Regulation shall take precedence as between participating Member States over conventions which relate to subjects governed by this Regulation and to which the participating Member States are party . 2. However , this Regulation shall , as between participating Member States , take precedence over conventions concluded exclusively between two or more of them in so far as such conventions concern matters governed by this Regulation. Amendment 54 Proposal for a regulation Article 12 – paragraph 1 By [ five years after the entry into force of this Regulation ] at the latest, the Commission shall present to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee a report on the application of this Regulation. The report shall be accompanied, where appropriate, by proposed amendments . 1. By five years after the entry into force of this Regulation at the latest, and every five years thereafter, the Commission shall present to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee a report on the application of this Regulation. The report shall be accompanied, where appropriate, by proposals to adapt this Regulation . Amendment 55 Proposal for a