Where cohesion policy support is provided for investment by a company, that subsequently closes the supported project within five years — or three years in the case of SMEs — of having received European funding, those funds have to be paid back. In a number of programmes provisions were introduced at the time those programmes were negotiated with Member States that exclude larger or all companies from receiving ERDF support in case of delocalisation. In cases where there is a suspicion that there are irregularities in the use of Structural Funds, the Commission starts investigations. The Commission is monitoring that the eligibility rules for co-financing projects are respected. Further investigations for example in the case of an investment by ABF International in Poland will be carried out by the Commission to ensure that the rules and the legislation are applied in this matter. In order to monitor restructuring of companies on a European scale the Commission cooperates with the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions based in Dublin. As regards the access of organised crime to the budget of cohesion policy, it is clear that companies which are found to have acted illegally can not keep subsidies, including European funding. Each payment claim submitted to the Commission for reimbursement states that the expenditure covered by that claim has been ‘lawful’. To increase the transparency for the EU citizens, all beneficiaries of cohesion policy projects have to be published now by the member states. The Commission has created a central portal to the websites that includes links to the list of beneficiaries from member states: http://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/country/commu/beneficiaries/index_en.htm The Commission would like to assure the Honourable Members that the legality and regularity of expenditures is crucial. The Commission is committed to ensuring the robustness of management and control procedures. It adopted and implements an Action Plan to strengthen the Commission's supervisory role in structural actions and this has contributed to a reduction of the error rate to 3 % down from 11 % in the past two years as stated by the Court of Auditors. Finally, the 5th Cohesion Report COM(2010)642. , which is in public consultation until end of January 2011, makes several suggestions, among other things, on how to improve the delivery and control mechanisms of cohesion policy for the next programming period.