the competent authority , the CESR or for any authority or person to whom the competent authority has delegated tasks, including auditors and experts contracted by the competent authority. Information covered by professional secrecy may not be disclosed to any other person or authority except when such disclosure is necessary for legal proceedings. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Article 31 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment An infringement of the provisions of this Regulation does not of itself give any right of action for damages by third party litigants and such claims may only be made in accordance with the applicable national law on civil liability. Justification The new paragraph which follows the first paragraph is introduced for the avoidance of doubt. The test should be that expounded in the first paragraph as implemented in national law. Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Article 31 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The CESR shall promote convergence in the rules applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation. Justification CESR should work towards convergence in the rules applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation so to avoid arbitrage. Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Article 31 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 31a Complaints The CESR shall ensure that procedures are set up which allow issuers, investors and other interested parties to submit complaints about the fulfilment of the requirements and conditions laid down in this Regulation. All complaints shall be dealt with diligently and in confidence. Justification Instead of undue litigation procedures, effective complaints procedures should be stimulated and established. CESR should be authority in charge in order to prevent arbitrage. Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Article 31 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 31b Out-of-court redress 1. Member States shall encourage the setting-up of appropriate and effective complaints and redress procedures for the out-of-court settlement of disputes between credit rating agencies and issuers, investors and, where appropriate, other interested parties concerning the fulfilment or non-fulfilment of the requirements and conditions laid down in this Regulation. 2. Member States shall encourage these bodies to cooperate in the resolution of cross-border disputes. 3. The CESR shall promote convergence of national complaints and redress procedures. Justification Instead of undue litigation procedures, effective complaints procedures should be stimulated and established. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Annex I - Section D - Chapter I - point 3 – subparagraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment In the event of changes in the quality of information available for monitoring an existing rating, this shall be publicised and appropriate revision to the rating shall be made. PROCEDURE Title Credit rating agencies References COM(2008)0704 – C6-0397/2008 – 2008/0217(COD) Committee responsible ECON Opinion by Date announced in plenary JURI 20.11.2008 Rapporteur Date appointed Sharon Bowles 19.1.2009 Discussed in committee 12.2.2009 Date adopted 9.3.2009 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 16 Members present for the final vote Monica Frassoni, Giuseppe Gargani, Neena Gill, Klaus-Heiner Lehne,