to the specific situation of women migrants with dependent children, particularly as regards their rights under temporary contracts of employment; 42. Calls on the receiving Member States and the migrants' States of origin to conclude agreements to guarantee transfers of entitlements acquired in either country to the other regarding length of service in skilled employment or social security; 43. Stresses that payments transferred by migrants from host countries to their home countries significantly exceed development aid payments and are of huge importance to achievement of the Millennium Development Goal of eradicating poverty, and urges the relevant institutions to make the transfer of payments easier by charging the lowest possible fees; 44. Emphasises the importance of cooperation between the host society on the one hand and immigrants, their communities of origin and the local assisting NGOs on the other, especially in making it easier for them to come and go between the host country and the country of origin; 45. Considers it necessary to alter the public perception of migration in Europe, notably by actively combating discrimination, racism and xenophobia and including the history of migrations in school curricula; 46. Is in favour of encouraging 'brain circulation' by extending the principle of 'Community preference' to those who have already worked for some years in the EU before returning to their own country; 47. Considers it vital that a European economic migration policy should also comprise practical solutions to the problem of the brain drain; 48. Calls on the Commission to open a dialogue with the governments of countries of origin without delay, in order to achieve balanced legislation that allows migration and enables professional experience to be developed; calls on it, within the context of this dialogue, to enhance the development of specific measures in the sectors particularly affected by the brain drain, in accordance with the countries concerned; 49. Calls on the Member States concerned to provide locally-based information to potential immigrants on their options and prospects as regards legal entry for purposes of employment; calls on the Commission to encourage coordination between the diplomatic and consular services of different Member States in the same country, not least to steer immigrants as far as possible towards Member States that have absorption capacity matching their respective professional profiles; proposes, to this end, greater human and financial resources for the Member States' consular services and the EU delegations, via such programmes as ARGO and AENEAS; 50. Recalls that fair treatment and equal rights for migrants are essential; 51. Points out that the common migration policy must take account of migrants' reasons for coming to Europe, in some cases risking their lives, and that it must therefore be linked to an active common development cooperation policy; 52. Stresses the importance of, and the need to strengthen, cooperation not only between the EU and the countries of origin but also between the countries of origin themselves, especially among the countries included in the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), between the ACP countries and between the former and the latter; 53. Expects the Commission, when taking measures against