Union in the field covered by this Interinstitutional Agreement. The President of the European Parliament and the special committee may ask to consult the documents in question on the premises of the Council. Where this is appropriate and possible in the light of the nature and content of the information or documents concerned, these shall be made available to the President of the European Parliament, who shall select one of the following options: (a) information intended for the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy; (b) access to information restricted to the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy only; (c) discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, meeting in camera, in accordance with arrangements which may vary by virtue of the degree of confidentiality involved; (d) communication of documents from which information has been expunged in the light of the degree of secrecy required. These options are not applicable if sensitive information is classified as "TRÈS SECRET/TOP SECRET". As to information or documents classified as "SECRET" or "CONFIDENTIAL", the selection by the President of the European Parliament of one of these options shall be previously agreed with the Council. The information or documents in question shall not be published or forwarded to any other addressee. 4. Final provisions 4.1 The European Parliament and the Council, each for its own part, shall take all necessary measures to ensure the implementation of this Interinstitutional Agreement, including the steps required for the security clearance of the persons involved. 4.2 The two institutions are willing to discuss comparable Interinstitutional Agreements covering classified information in other areas of the Council's activities, on the understanding that the provisions of this Interinstitutional Agreement do not constitute a precedent for the Union's or the Community's other areas of activity and shall not affect the substance of any other Interinstitutional Agreements. 4.3 This Interinstitutional Agreement shall be reviewed after two years at the request of either of the two institutions in the light of experience gained in implementing it. Annex This Interinstitutional Agreement shall be implemented in conformity with the relevant applicable regulations and in particular with the principle according to which the consent of the originator is a necessary condition for the transmission of classified information as laid down in point 1.2. Consultation of sensitive documents by the members of the Special Committee of the European Parliament shall take place in a secured room at the Council premises. This Interinstitutional Agreement shall enter into force after the European Parliament has adopted internal security measures which are in accordance with the principles laid down in point 2.1 and comparable to those of the other institutions in order to guarantee an equivalent level of protection of the sensitive information concerned. C. Implementation of the Interinstitutional Agreement governing Parliament access to sensitive information in the sphere of security and defence policy European Parliament decision of 23 October 2002 on the implementation of the Interinstitutional Agreement governing European Parliament access to sensitive