committee considers that the nature and number of such discrepancies is not important enough to characterize what may be termed as the formal transposition process as defective. 2. The committee makes one exception, nevertheless, as regards the ample powers domestic UK legislation bestows on the Secretary of State (as prescribed by Section 68 of the ICA 1982) to waive the application of prudential regulations. These powers appear to be incompatible with the letter and the aim of the Directive and were used inappropriately See Part II, Section II.1.1. on Art.25 3LD; see also WE 17, para. 7.2.2 at p. 228. (particularly when granting authorization on numerous occasions to include future profits in the solvency margin), and that therefore, in this particular instance, there are serious concerns that the 3LD was not correctly transposed in full. 3. The committee believes that the transposition of the 3LD by the UK, was not carried out in a way which allowed the effective fulfilment of its underlying objectives. The committee believes that the UK technique of implementing the Directive in a piecemeal fashion (i.e., the directive was transposed not into one single national law but spread throughout different acts of varying hierarchy) lacks clarity and does not seem to be the best way of incorporating EC principles and standards into domestic legislation. Application of the 3LD 4. The committee considers it clear that the obligations imposed by Directives on Member States do not only concern their legislative competences but extend also to their administrative and judicial competences. Furthermore, the adoption of national measures implementing a Directive does not exhaust its effects. Full application of a Directive is only secured when national implementing measures are actually being applied in such a way as to achieve the result sought by it. Indeed, divergences in the application of Directives would otherwise have a negative effect on uniformity and equivalence within the Community legal order. 5. The committee is of the opinion that the application of the 3LD by the UK in respect of the ELAS case was deficient and that UK regulators and authorities did not adequately respect the ultimate purpose of the Directive. The committee believes that, in the present case, the combination of a formalistic transposition with an application which was defective in several respects leads to the conclusion that the implementation process as a whole was flawed. Specific issues regarding application The concept of financial supervision of the entire business 6. The committee recalls that the Directive states that financial supervision must cover the “ assurance undertaking's entire business ”. Article 8 3LD. The committee stresses as a legislator that such simple terminology is unambiguous and must be given a wide and proper interpretation. 7. The committee believes that UK authorities’ supervision of ELAS disregarded or misinterpreted the concept of " financial supervision of the entire business " contrary to Articles 8 See Part II, Sections II.1.1 and Part II, section II.2.3; see also WE 16 (Ch. 16; ch. 19, para. 210; ch. 18, para.220; ch. 21) and WE Conf 3. , 18 See Part II