appoint. 2. The officials and servants of the Ombudsman's secretariat shall be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities. Their number shall be adopted each year as part of the budgetary procedure. 3. Officials of the European Communities and of the Member States appointed to the Ombudsman's secretariat shall be seconded in the interests of the service and guaranteed automatic reinstatement in their institution of origin. 4. In matters concerning his staff, the Ombudsman shall have the same status as the institutions within the meaning of Article 1 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities. Article 12 Deleted Article 13 The seat of the Ombudsman shall be that of the European Parliament. Article 14 The Ombudsman shall adopt the implementing provisions for this Decision. Article 15 The first Ombudsman to be appointed after the entry into force of the EU Treaty shall be appointed for the remainder of the parliamentary term. Article 16 Deleted Article 17 This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. It shall enter into force on the date of its publication. B. Decision of the European Ombudsman adopting implementing provisions Adopted on 8 July 2002 and amended by decision of the Ombudsman of 5 April 2004. Article 1 Definitions In these implementing provisions, (a) "institution concerned" means the Community institution or body which is the object of a complaint or an own initiative inquiry; (b) "the Statute" means the regulations and general conditions governing the performance of the Ombudsman's duties. Article 2 Receipt of complaints 2.1 Complaints are identified, registered and numbered upon receipt. 2.2 An acknowledgement of receipt is sent to the complainant, quoting the registration number of the complaint and identifying the legal officer who is dealing with the case. 2.3 A petition transferred to the Ombudsman by the European Parliament with the consent of the petitioner is treated as a complaint. 2.4 In appropriate cases and with the consent of the complainant, the Ombudsman may transfer a complaint to the European Parliament to be dealt with as a petition. 2.5 In appropriate cases and with the consent of the complainant, the Ombudsman may transfer a complaint to another competent authority. Article 3 Admissibility of complaints 3.1 On the basis of the criteria laid down in the Treaty and the Statute, the Ombudsman determines whether a complaint is within his mandate and if so, whether it is admissible; he may request the complainant to provide further information or documents before making the determination. 3.2 If a complaint is outside the mandate, or inadmissible, the Ombudsman closes the file on the complaint. He informs the complainant of his decision and of the reasons for it. The Ombudsman may advise the complainant to apply to another authority. Article 4 Inquiries into admissible complaints 4.1 The Ombudsman decides whether there are sufficient grounds to justify making inquiries into an admissible complaint. 4.2 If he does not find sufficient grounds to justify making inquiries, the Ombudsman closes the file on the complaint and