the Member States concerned. It follows that Irish/German policyholders, who have contracted with Equitable Life in the UK, would have the choice of suing the company either in the UK or in the country where they are domiciled, which will most likely be Ireland/Germany. On the other hand, Irish/German policyholders who have contracted with Equitable Life's branches in Ireland/Germany would have to sue Equitable in Ireland/Germany (unless they are not domiciled in another Member State). The vast majority of Irish/German policyholders have purchased their policies from ELAS branches in Ireland/Germany, so they would have to sue the Society there. Article 32 of the consolidated Life Assurance Directive lays down rules as to which law is applicable to the insurance contracts. Accordingly, a life assurance contract is governed by the law of the Member State of the commitment, i.e. the Member State where the policyholder has his habitual residence. Where the law of that State so allows, the parties may choose the law of another country. In any event, where the policyholder is a natural person and has his habitual residence in a Member State other than the State of his nationality, the parties may choose the law of the State of which he is a national. However, the above rules do not restrict the application of the rules of the law of the forum in a situation where those rules are mandatory, irrespective of the law otherwise applicable to the contract. By way of example, ES 3 Pages 68 to 70. examines the choice of law for German policyholders in pursuing claims against the Society: " Whether German policyholders can invoke claims under English law in a German court depends on principles of private international law. Different rules apply depending on the type of claim that the policyholder wishes to pursue. " As regards contractual remedies, ES 3 concludes that " in the case of a German policyholder concluding a contract with Equitable Life, the default law that governs the contract and possible breaches of obligations arising under the contract is German law. The parties may choose another law but their choice is restricted. English law may be elected if a UK national has his/her habitual residence in Germany . ... [If] Equitable Life has pursued the activity of insurance in Germany neither through subsidiaries or branches nor through agents, the parties to the contract can choose any law if the policyholder has his/her habitual residence in Germany ." With reference to tort law remedies, ES 3 states that " in the case of a policyholder with his/her habitual residence in Germany (and therefore his/her assets in Germany) who has suffered financial loss due to the tortuous acts of Equitable Life or one of its employees, the policyholder has the choice whether to pursue remedies under German or English law. " Mr STEFFEN (H6) commented that he " cannot make any criticism of this legal solution, it is consumer protection in the best sense ". He regards the fact that non-UK policyholders when a problem arises " do not have to contend