data are not or no longer necessary for the purpose for which they were transmitted or made available. Amendment 32 Article 9, paragraph 9 a (new) 9a. Member States shall provide that the quality of personal data transmitted or made available by third countries is specifically assessed as soon as they are received and that the degree of accuracy and reliability is indicated. Amendment 33 Article 10, paragraph 1 1. Member States shall provide that each automated transmission and reception of personal data, in particular by direct automated access, is logged in order to ensure the subsequent verification of the reasons for the transmission, the transmitted data, the time of transmission, the authorities involved and, as far as the receiving authority is concerned, the persons who have received the data and who have given rise to their reception. 1. Member States shall provide that each automated access, transmission and reception of personal data, in particular by direct automated access, is logged in order to ensure the subsequent verification of the reasons for the access and transmission, the transmitted or accessed data, the time of transmission or access , the authorities involved and, as far as the receiving authority is concerned, the persons who have received the data and who have given rise to their reception. Amendment 34 Article 10, paragraph 2 2. Member States shall provide that each non automated transmission and reception of personal data is documented in order to ensure the subsequent verification of the reasons for the transmission, the transmitted data, the time of transmission, the authorities involved and, as far as the receiving authority is concerned, the persons who have received the data and who have given rise to their reception. 2. Member States shall provide that each non automated access , transmission and reception of personal data is documented in order to ensure the subsequent verification of the reasons for the access or transmission, the transmitted or accessed data, the time of transmission or access , the authorities involved and, as far as the receiving authority is concerned, the persons who have received the data and who have given rise to their reception. Amendment 35 Article 10, paragraph 3 3. The authority that has logged or documented such information shall communicate it without delay to the competent supervisory authority on request of the latter . The information shall only be used for the control of data protection and for ensuring proper data processing as well as data integrity and security. 3. The authority that has logged or documented such information shall keep it at the disposal of the competent supervisory authority and communicate it without delay to the said authority. The information shall only be used for the control of data protection and for ensuring proper data processing as well as data integrity and security. Amendment 36 Article 12 a (new) Article 12a Further transmission to authorities other than competent authorities Where personal data have been received from or made available by the competent authority of another Member State, those data may be further transmitted to authorities