increased by subsidies or grants. There are a number of arguments in favour of this proposal. Firstly it is to be expected that we will have to give ourselves a more clearly defined profile in a number of research areas. These include dealing with new epidemics, AIDS, tropical diseases etc., as well as with human ageing In other words, medical research will come to occupy a more important place in future. This is mainly fundamental research which will probably exceed the financial limits of the Research Framework Programme unless the funding of the current programme is considerably increased, which no-one currently expects. Another important area might be materials research. A research foundation therefore suggests itself, to which private individuals may contribute, but which may also receive public funding. The better such an establishment’s research is, the more successful it is in accumulating funds. However, in order to be good, it must be largely freed from the burdens of bureaucracy. In other words it must be independent, without the administrative ballast which the European institutions require. There are no real precedents for this, apart from the various national scientific foundations. One additional problem is that there is no European legal form within which such a foundation would fit. But precisely because we have to work without precedents (incidentally, Jean Monnet had no precedents for the Schuman Plan), we also have scope for imaginative new creations. The Commission should therefore instruct a small group of experts to work out one or more models for a European research foundation, on which the Council and Parliament would then decide. Another advantage of an independent foundation over the Research Framework Programme is that a foundation would be able in principle to decide quickly and unbureaucratically who will receive how much money. Research must be determined by relevance and quality, not by the operation of accounting procedures. Just because accountants think something is right, it is not necessarily right from a research point of view. Time and sensitivity, but also luck and coincidence are more important in research, particularly in fundamental research, than perfect and therefore costly management procedures. Having an extra research instrument will also be a help to us during the enlargement of the Union. It will be difficult to administer research policy in 25 or 30 countries from Brussels: the Commission has an unenviable task. If we had a second pillar alongside the Research Framework Programme in the form of this research foundation, Europe would be able to meet the challenges of the 21 st century in a much more flexible and effective manner. Then Europe could really become the most dynamic research area in the world. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy calls on the Committee on Budgets, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Proposal for a Council decision on establishing the measures necessary for the implementation of the Protocol, annexed to the Treaty of Nice, on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty and on the Research Fund for Coal