WRITTEN QUESTION E-3600/06 by Renato Brunetta (PPE‑DE) to the Council (3 August 2006) Subject: Transparency in corporate governance and of ownership structures in the privatisation of publicly-owned companies The European Community has done a great deal in recent years to ensure the required transparency in the corporate governance of European undertakings, but the issue of corporate governance cannot simply be portrayed as one limited to relations between shareholders and management and between shareholders and employees. Grey areas remain, in particular, as regards ownership structures. The privatisation of publicly-owned companies, as in the case of Telecom Italia, has been managed by the government without a requisite market policy, with the result that relations between entrepreneurs and politicians have not taken the most transparent of forms. It has emerged from the investigations relating to Consorte and Sacchetti (their statements) that they collected huge sums, abroad, for their part in the Telecom Italia affair. That money was a mere fraction of the enormous sum transferred abroad, something that was made possible by the fact that Telecom Italia had ended up in the hands of a consortium based outside Italy, with Luxembourg-based companies that were in turn owned by off-shore companies. Prior to the investigations, no one had ever imagined that Consorte and Sacchetti could have accessed those funds, and one can therefore only guess how many others may have been able to do so. It need scarcely be said that the absence of criminal proceedings is not only a dereliction of official duties but also serves to fuel the possibility of blackmail and unlawful pressuring. As regards officials who disclose the contents of enquiries entrusted to them, one should note the events surrounding Achille Toro, deputy prosecutor at the Rome Public Prosecutor's Office, who was responsible for the investigations into the Antonveneta raid and fed sensitive information, on behalf of Consorte, to another judge who was a friend of his. The Perugia Public Prosecutor's Office opened an investigation into this matter but nothing further has been heard. What is known, however, is that in the meantime Toro has been rewarded with a post as head of cabinet at the Ministry of Transport. In this way, public monopolies have become private monopolies, with the transfer of huge sums of money to foreign accounts, off-shore companies and elusive or unidentifiable ‘consultants’. All of which is to the detriment of the consumer. In the light of the above, will the Council: — ascertain whether, in the process of the privatisation of state-owned companies, freedom of establishment, the free movement of capital and freedom of competition have been respected; — harness the instruments at its disposal to ensure more effective control of transfers of ownership; — safeguard the consumer via rules which render genuinely transparent transfers of the wealth of companies in which, as small shareholders, citizen savers subsequently take up a stake?