policyholders 11%. The maturity adjustment was 15% in Ireland and 9% in the UK . " In this context, ELAS points out in WE-CONF 5 that in July 2001, when UK with-profits pension policies were reduced by 16%, Irish policy values were not reduced. e.) ELAS information policy Ms KNOWD (H2) furthermore complained about ELAS' allegedly discriminatory practices in terms of providing information to policyholders. She claims that " information specific to Irish policyholders is not contained in the annual report and accounts ", that she " did not get notification of the AGM " and that she was thus " deprived of her voting rights ". Mr WEYER (H3) criticised the Society's information policy vis-à-vis German policyholders: " German policyholders ... suffer from the information policy of the Society... Texts sent out – allegedly for information – are usually very long and to some extent completely unintelligible to the consumer. An example of this is the ‘proposal for a compromise settlement’, sent out in great haste, the so-called GAR compromise plan. It alone comprised 227 pages. The document has a very cumbersome and impenetrable structure which is of little help to the German policyholder because the document, which sets out to settle the rights and obligations of the contracting parties in the long term, refers to English law and, in particular, to Section 425 of the Companies Act of 1985. German policyholders cannot make much sense of this, particularly as, when contracts were concluded and according to a layman’s reading of the policies, only German law was supposed to be applicable. A particularly critical point is the information policy in relation to the quantification of surrender values, in so far as the contract allows surrender, and information on the exact composition of the profit-sharing arrangement. Here the current policy of the Society from the point of view of German policyholders could be described in practice as no information at all, apart from a bare figure ." Mr WEYER (H3) also referred to linguistic problems caused by the Society's refusal to provide certain documents in German: " The German policyholders were contacted by letter of 12 April 2006 enclosing the voting documents, the annual report and the candidates’ declarations only in English stating the following reasons: ‘we are only sending the documents in English this year in order to avoid delays due to translation and separate printing. The use of English documents will also save expense’. I think it is clear that many of the German policyholders were very annoyed by this procedure and felt they were in a quite helpless situation because the great majority of policyholders, as we learned, could not make any use of the English documents. " Mr SEYMOUR, who is a director of the Equitable Members Action Group (EMAG) with main responsibility for non-UK based policyholders, informed the committee that he too received letters from German policyholders who complained of a lack of financial reports in their language. In WE 21-CONF it is confirmed that documents relating to the Annual General Meeting as well as reports and