to seek further information. The President-elect of the Commission shall present the whole College of Commissioners-designate and their programme at a sitting of Parliament which the whole Council shall be invited to attend. The presentation shall be followed by a debate. In order to wind up the debate, any political group or at least forty Members may table a motion for resolution. Rule 103(3), (4) and (5) shall apply. Following the vote on the motion for resolution, Parliament shall vote on whether or not to give its consent to the appointment, as a body, of the President-elect and Commissioners-designate. Parliament shall decide by a majority of the votes cast, by roll call. It may defer the vote until the following sitting. 2. The following arrangements shall apply in the event of a change in the composition of the College of Commissioners or a substantial portfolio change during its term of office: a) When a vacancy caused by resignation, compulsory retirement or death is to be filled, Parliament, acting with dispatch, shall invite the Commissioner-designate to participate in a hearing under the same conditions as those laid down in paragraph 1. b) In the event of the accession of a new Member State, Parliament shall invite the Commissioner-designate to participate in a hearing under the same conditions as those laid down in paragraph 1. c) In the event of a substantial portfolio change, the Commissioners affected shall be invited to appear before the committees concerned before taking up their new responsibilities. By way of derogation from the procedure laid down in paragraph 1(c), third subparagraph, when the vote in plenary concerns the appointment of a single Commissioner, the vote shall be by secret ballot. ANNEX XVI c Procedure for granting authorisation to draw up own-initiative reports DECISION OF THE CONFERENCE OF PRESIDENTS OF 12 DECEMBER 2002 This decision was amended by a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 26 June 2003 and was consolidated on 3 May 2004. It was further amended by a decision adopted in plenary on 15 June 2006 concerning the interpretation of Rule 45 of the Rules of Procedure and by a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 14 February 2008. The Conference of Presidents, having regard to Rules 24, 26, 112, 113, 33, 39, 42, 44, 45, 47, 192(1) and 195(2) of the Rules of Procedure; having regard to the proposal from the Conference of Committee Chairs and the Working Party on Parliamentary Reform; whereas, following the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 12 December 2007, the decision of the Conference of 12 December 2002 should be amended: HAS DECIDED Article 1 General provisions Scope 1. This decision shall apply to the following categories of own-initiative reports: (a) Legislative Own-Initiative Reports , drawn up on the basis of Article 192 EC Treaty and Rule 39 of the Rules of Procedure; (b) Strategic Reports , drawn up on the basis of non-legislative strategic and priority initiatives included in the Commission's annual legislative and work programme; (c) Non-Legislative Own-Initiative Reports , not drawn up on the basis