EU/US trade relations; 17. Supports the idea of areas identified for further cooperation or joint foreign policy action with the US, including the Middle East, the western Balkans and the Korean peninsula, and strongly supports the declaration on prevention of proliferation of ballistic missiles, asking for the strengthening of international norms and political instruments to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery; 18. Regrets nevertheless that the abolition of the death penalty and the ratification of the International Criminal Court are not mentioned in the communiqué on EU-US cooperation under the new transatlantic agenda; Middle East 19. Welcomes the efforts of the High Representative to rebuild faith in peace and to restore cooperation between the parties involved in this conflict and the civil societies; 20. Fully supports the recommendation of the Sharm el Sheikh fact-finding committee which calls for the immediate freezing of settlements, including the non-extension of the existing ones and a ban on future ones; 21. Reiterates its condemnation of the terrorist attacks against all civilians and urges the Palestinian authorities to implement an effective policy to fight any activity by groups of terrorists, this being an essential step for positive dialogue between the two parties; EU-Russia 22. Welcomes the important steps taken toward forging a partnership with Russia, but insists on the need to find a political solution to the conflict in Chechnya and raises its concern at the situation of independent media in Russia; Northern dimension 23. Welcomes the 'Full Report on the Northern Dimension Policies' prepared by the Swedish presidency and the Commission, as well as the endorsement given to the policy guidance and follow-up procedures by the European Council; 24. Supports the conclusion that EU enlargement will have very concrete implications on the Northern Dimension, since the number of Member States in the North of Europe will increase from four to eight, and that this will undoubtedly also strengthen the internal aspects of the ND initiative; calls on the Danish presidency also to pay special attention to the Barents region and the Arctic when preparing the high-level meeting to map out future actions from 2003; 25. Considers that a Northern Dimension should be continuously mainstreamed into all EU policies from their very earliest stage of development; Macedonia 26. Strongly supports the declaration on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and welcomes the ceasefire agreed by the Macedonian government on Sunday, 24 June 2001; 27. Condemns any resorting to violence and emphasises its continuing strong support for the Macedonian government for the process of inter-ethnic dialogue; calls on all democratic forces in Macedonia, in neighbouring countries and in the international community to unite against extremism; 28. Welcomes the EU's efforts towards the establishment of a durable peace, and insists on the necessity to maintain the ceasefire and to facilitate the political dialogue between the main communities of the country; 29. Strongly condemns any resort to violence and supports President Trajkovski's plan for disarmament; Openness and transparency 30. Emphasises the need for more transparency and openness in Council proceedings, and respects the