Treaty on European Union . The Commission’s reasons for rejecting the registration of an initiative shall be well-founded and shall be published on the website set up by it for that purpose. Justification Transparency will undoubtedly prove educational and prevent the multiplication of inadmissible or ludicrous initiatives. Amendment 30 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. A proposed citizens' initiative that has been registered shall be made public in the register. 5. The decision on admissibility shall be notified to the organisers of the proposed citizens' initiative and shall be made public in the register and on the website provided by the Commission . It shall also include an indication as to which legal act or measures the Commission considers that it is appropriate to take if one million statements of support are collected in favour of that citizens' initiative. The Commission may always modify that indication at the moment when it adopts its decision on whether or not to go forward with a citizens' initiative. Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. The Commission shall inform the organiser of the reasons why registration of the proposed citizens’ initiative has been rejected. Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The organiser shall be responsible for the collection of the necessary statements of support from signatories for a proposed citizens' initiative which has been registered in accordance with Article 4. 1. The organiser shall be responsible for the collection of the necessary statements of support from signatories for a proposed citizens' initiative which has been registered and declared admissible in accordance with Article 4. Amendment 33 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2a. The organiser shall also submit to the competent authorities a declaration of any financial support it may have received or enjoyed from any interest group or representatives of interest groups, throughout the entire duration of the collection of statements of support, so as to ensure full transparency throughout the entire life cycle of the citizen's initiative. Amendment 34 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. All statements of support shall be collected after the date of registration of the proposed initiative and within a period that shall not exceed 12 months . 4. All statements of support shall be collected after the date of registration of the proposed initiative and within a period that shall not exceed 24 months . Amendment 35 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Where statements of support are collected electronically, the data obtained through the online collection system shall be stored in the territory of a Member State . The model for the statement of support forms may be adapted for the purpose of the electronic