Europe and developing countries. The EDCTP is intended to contribute significantly to the implementation of the PFA OJ C 87, 11.4.2002, p. 159. Programme for Action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB in the context of poverty reduction. Adopted by the Parliament 4.10.2001, Khanbai report. . Past investments in research and development have not resulted in new health interventions suitable for use by developing countries and which meet their health needs. Three main reasons for this are identified: (i) a fragmented European research effort and poor networking (ii) organisational and economic impediments to the conduct of large scale clinical trials and (iii) low levels of developing country participation in clinical research, primarily due to lack of trial and trained staffing capacity. Three main activities are proposed to overcome these challenges: (i) networking participating national programmes with a focus on joint implementation of activities (ii) support for clinical trials in developing countries and (iii) strengthening clinical research capacity in developing countries. In addition, activities to ensure the effective administrative functioning, visibility and sustainability of the EDCTP will also be undertaken. The Participating States The participating states are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and the UK. are considering to form a common structure which will be legally constituted as a European Economic Interest Group (EEIG) to implement the EDCTP programme. The common structure will be the sole recipient of the Community’s contribution and will receive funds on the basis of Article 169 of the EU Treaty (the EDCTP will be the first programme to be implemented under this article). The estimated total budget of the platform for 2002 – 2006 is €600m. Of this, the Commission will contribute €200m from the 6 th Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (priority theme “Life sciences, genomics and biotechnology for health”). Participating States are considering to make jointly contributions worth €200m to the activities of the EDCTP. The remaining €200m is to be sought from other public and private sources. There is an emphasis on the programme engendering new public-private partnerships, presumably as the means to leverage this additional financial support. The projected budget break down is as follows: secretariat (€15m), informatics structure (€5m), European networking and programme linking (€15m), clinical trials (€400m), developing country capacity building (€150m) and EDCTP promotion and resource development activities (€10m). General Comment Currently, developing countries lack the clinical, regulatory and community infrastructure necessary to participate effectively in undertaking clinical research. The EDCTP should develop a real partnership with developing countries in addressing these deficits and to accelerate the development of urgently needed new health products. Developing countries should play a key role in the decision-making processes of the EDCTP. Mechanisms for such participation need to be further articulated. Community capacity building and social mobilisation are essential elements of successful clinical research. The EDCTP should ensure that such capacity building is fully integrated with the development of clinical infrastructure and capacity. The emphasis on making more efficient use of and building clinical research capacity in developing countries