Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Where statements of support are collected electronically, the data obtained through the online collection system shall be stored in the territory of a Member State . The model for the statement of support forms may be adapted for the purpose of the electronic collection. 1. Where statements of support are collected electronically, the data obtained through the online collection system shall be stored centrally by the Commission or by the European Parliament . The model for the statement of support forms may be adapted for the purpose of the electronic collection. Justification The Commission should set up a central website in order to guarantee the protection of personal data. All initiatives should be registered and possible to sign on this website. Otherwise, an extra burden would be put on the initiators. Amendment 36 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Data submitted by signatories through the online collection system must be checked, stored and destroyed in accordance with the Union ’s rules on data protection and the right to privacy. Justification Signatories are providing personal data which must be protected from any possible form of misuse. Amendment 37 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Where the online collection system complies with the provisions referred to in paragraph 4, the relevant competent authority shall within one month issue a certificate in accordance with the model set out in Annex IV. Until such a time as the technical specifications mentioned in paragraph 5 have been adopted, the competent authority shall apply the appropriate national technical specifications for assessing the conformity of the online collection system with paragraph 4. deleted Member States shall recognize the certificates issued by the competent authorities of other Member States. Justification Since the Commission should set up and manage a central website, the verification of conformity by Member States is no longer required. Amendment 38 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment a. only natural persons may submit a statement of support form online; a. only natural persons eligible to sign may submit a statement of support form online; Amendment 39 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ba. the fact that each person submits only one statement can be verified; Amendment 40 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. Within 12 months following the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt technical specifications for the implementation of paragraph 4, in accordance with the regulatory procedure laid down in Article 19(2). 5. Within the 12 months following the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall undertake in conjunction with the European Data Protection Supervisor an evaluation enabling it to adopt technical specifications for the implementation of paragraph 4, in accordance with the regulatory procedure