Answer given by Ms Hübner on behalf of the Commission (17 September 2007) According to Article 12 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999 of 21 June 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds OJ L 161, 26.6.1999. , operations financed by the Funds shall be in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty, with instruments adopted under it and with Community policies and actions, including the rules on environmental protection. The Commission confirms that the project to which the Honourable Member refers is co-funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) under the Operational Programme ‘Education and Initial Professional Training 2000‑06’ (measure 5.2). The Commission agrees with the need for all levels of governance to duly respect and promote the natural as well as the cultural heritage of the Member States. The Commission would like to note that, in application of the subsidiarity principle, the implementation of Community assistance is the responsibility of the Member States, as stated in Article 8, paragraph 3 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999. The Commission is not involved in the selection of projects and in their day-to-day implementation. Based on information received from the Greek authorities, the competent national Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Public Works has formally notified the Final Beneficiary of the aforementioned project (Piraeus T.E.I.) that for projects concerning the construction and operation of teaching facilities, such as the project in question, the national regulatory framework does not require the submission of an environmental impact study and the approval of environmental terms, which form part of an Environmental Impact Assessment according to Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Directive) OJ L 175, 5.7. 1985. as amended by Council Directive 97/11/EC OJ L 73, 14.3.1997. and Directive 2003/35/EC OJ L 156, 25.6.2003. , stipulating that projects likely to have significant effects on the environment by virtue inter alia of their nature, size or location must be subject to an assessment of their environmental effects [Article 2(1)]. Projects subject to the EIA Directive are defined in Article 4 and listed in Annex I and Annex II to the EIA Directive. An EIA is mandatory for projects included in Annex I. Projects in the categories listed in Annex II are to be subject to a ‘screening’ where Member States determine the likely significant effects on the environment. This determination may be carried out through a case-by-case examination, by setting thresholds or criteria or by a combination of these methods, taking account of the relevant selection criteria in Annex III to the directive. Category C0 of Annex II in particular includes, under point 10, Infrastructure projects, (b): ‘Urban development projects, including the construction of shopping centers and car parks.’ This category could cover projects similar to the one in question. It is not clear at this stage, on the basis of the information solicited as explained above, if the requirements with respect to ‘screening’ foreseen in Article 4.2 and 4.3 of the EIA Directive