to combat fraud, corruption and other unlawful activities the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)( 1 ) shall apply without restriction. 2. The Authority shall accede to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 25 May 1999 concerning internal investigations by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) ( 2 ) and shall issue, without delay, the appropriate provisions applicable to all the employees of the Authority. 3. The decisions concerning funding and the implementing agreements, and instruments resulting from them, shall explicitly stipulate that the Court of Auditors and OLAF may carry out, if necessary, on-the-spot checks of the recipients of the authority's funding and the agents responsible for allocating it. _____________ ( 1 ) OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. ( 2 ) OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 15. Amendment 157 Article 44 Article 44 Fees received by the Authority Within three years from the date of entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall publish, after consulting the Authority, the Member States and the interested parties, a report on the feasibility and advisability of introducing fees payable by undertakings for obtaining a Community authorisation and for other services provided by the Authority. Deleted Amendment 158 Article 49, paragraph -1 a (new) - 1a. The Authority shall be responsible to the Commission for the operation of the rapid alert system for food and feed products. Amendment 159 Article 49, paragraph -1 b (new) - 1b. The Authority, in consultation with the Member States and the Commission, shall set up the facilities necessary for the rapid transmission of information required for the operation of the rapid alert system. Amendment 160 Article 49, paragraph 1 1. A rapid alert system for food and feed shall be established as a network. It shall involve the Member States, the Commission and the Authority , which is responsible for its operation . The Member States, the Commission and the Authority shall each designate a contact point, which shall be a member of the network. 1. The rapid alert system for food and feed products shall be established as a network. It shall involve the Member States, the Commission and the Authority . The Member States, the Commission and the Authority shall each designate a contact point, which shall be a member of the network. Amendment 161 Article 49, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 2. Where a member of the network has any information relating to the existence of a serious direct or indirect risk to human health deriving from food or feed, this information shall be immediately notified to the Authority under the rapid alert system. 2. Where a member of the network has any information relating to the existence of a direct or indirect risk to human health deriving from food or feed products , this information shall be immediately notified to the Authority and to the Commission under the rapid alert system. Amendment 162 Article 49, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 The Authority shall establish whether , on