in January 1999. Since 1 December 2001 FSA has had statutory responsibility for financial services regulation under the provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. § FSMA: The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. § Future profit implicit item: Item that can be counted, within certain limits, towards meeting a company's RMM in respect of its long-term business at the discretion of the regulator. This item allows insurers to take credit for margins in mathematical reserves to the extent that they are expected to emerge in the future from in-force business. § GAD: Government Actuaries Department. Central government body employing all actuaries in the government service, amongst whose duties has been the review of regulatory returns and actuarial advice to the prudential regulators for insurance (DTI, HM Treasury and FSA). § GAR : Guaranteed Annuity Rate. § GIR : Guaranteed Interest Rate (or Guaranteed Investment Return), an amount by which basic benefits are guaranteed to increase each year before the addition of reversionary (declared) bonus. Originally set by the Society at 2½% per annum on its RAP business, this was raised to 3%, and then in October 1975 to 3½% per annum. Removed from new pension policies taken out after 30 June 1996. § GMT: General Management Team. § Government Actuary : Head of GAD. § Hidden Reserves: Reserves resulting from the underestimation of assets and overestimation of liabilities. § HMT : Her Majesty's Treasury. Assumed policy responsibility for financial services from 1992 and responsibility for insurance regulation from 1998. § IB-PIA: Personal Investment Authority Insurance Business Division, a division of FSA that undertook regulatory responsibilities for PIA pending creation of the single financial services regulator under the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000. § IFA : Independent Financial Adviser. § IMRO : The Investment Managers Regulatory Organisation. § Institute of Actuaries : The governing body for English actuaries. § Interest rate differential: Differential between assumed gross bonus rate and rate for discounting liabilities introduced by Society into its liability valuation from 1990 to 1997. § LAUTRO : Life Assurance and Unit Trusts Regulatory Organisation. § MVA or MVR : Market Value Adjustment or Market Value Reduction applied by Equitable on non-contractual claims to reduce policy values. § Mathematical reserves: Insurance fund liabilities for regulatory purposes calculated with reference to the present value of future expectations of income, expense and investment yield. § Maturity: The point, other than on death, from which policy benefits become contractually payable. § Mortality Table : A listings by age of the probable death rates of a similar group of people, based on actual past experience. § Mutual Life Office : A life insurance company owned by its policyholders rather than by shareholders. Participating policyholders receive a share of the profits earned by the office, in the form of bonuses applied to their respective policies. § Non-GAR : Any Equitable with-profits contract that did not contain an annuity guarantee or GAR. Upon vesting, the annuitant receives an annual income derived by using the insurer's current annuity rate, which will be derived by reference to underlying