the Community and partly within that of its Member States, it is essential to ensure close cooperation between the Member States and the Community institutions, both in the process of negotiation and conclusion and in the fulfilment of the commitments entered into. That obligation to cooperate flows from the requirement of unity in the international representation of the Community. The Community institutions and the Member States should take all necessary steps to ensure the best possible cooperation in that regard. (5) All existing bilateral agreements between Member States and third countries that contain provisions contrary to Community law must be amended or replaced by new agreements that are wholly compatible with Community law . ( 6 ) Without prejudice to the provisions of the Treaty, and in particular Article 300 thereof, Member States may make amendments to existing agreements and make provision to manage their implementation until such time as an agreement concluded by the Community enters into force. ( 7 ) It is essential to ensure that a Member State conducting negotiations takes account of Community law, broader Community interests and any ongoing Community negotiations . ( 8 ) If Member States wish to involve air carriers in the process of negotiation , all air carriers with an establishment in the territory of the Member State concerned and air carriers which are or might be affected in the foreseeable future on account of their route network should be treated equally. ( 9 ) In order to ensure that the rights of Community carriers are not unduly restricted, no new clauses that prevent more than one Community carrier from entering a given market or that place severe limitations on frequency or capacity or service should be introduced in bilateral air service agreements. ( 10 ) Member States should establish non-discriminatory and transparent procedures for the distribution of traffic rights between Community carriers. In some circumstances, traffic rights granted under an agreement may be sufficient to allow all Community carriers who wish to provide service to enter the market. ( 11 ) In accordance with Article 2 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. , measures for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted by use of the regulatory procedure provided for in Article 5 of that Decision. ( 12 ) Since the objectives of the proposed action, namely the coordination of negotiations with third countries with a view to concluding air service agreements, the necessity to guarantee a collaborative approach in the implementation and application of the agreements and the verification of compliance with Community law of such agreements, cannot always be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by the reason of the Community-wide scope of this Regulation , be better achieved at Community level, the Community may , in principle, adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty . (13) However, in accordance with the principle