functioning of the internal market, since the credit rating agencies issuing credit ratings for the use of financial institutions in the Community, would be subject to different rules in different Member States. Moreover, diverging quality requirements on credit ratings could lead to different levels of investor and consumer protection. (6) It is necessary to lay down a common framework improving the quality of credit ratings to be used by financial institutions regulated by harmonised rules in the Community. Otherwise, there would be a risk that Member States would take diverging measures at national level. This would have a direct negative impact on and create obstacles to the good functioning of the internal market, since the credit rating agencies issuing credit ratings for the use of financial institutions in the Community, would be subject to different rules in different Member States. Moreover, diverging quality requirements on credit ratings could lead to different levels of investor and consumer protection. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Recitals 6 a, 6 b and 6 c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6a) It is desirable that credit ratings of entities or products located in a third countr y , prepared or issued by credit rating agencies established and authorised in a third-country, can be used in the Community provided that they comply with requirements that are as stringent as those provided for in this Regulation. (6b) This Regulation should introduce an endorsement regime allowing credit rating agencies established in the Community and registered in accordance with this Regulation to endorse credit ratings issued in third countries provided that the Commission has recognised the legal and supervisory framework regulating the third-country credit rating activities resulting in the issuance of credit ratings to be endorsed as equivalent to this Regulation. In order to ensure investor protection and facilitate the remedying of any breach of this Regulation, the requirements set out in this Recital are essential for providing a point of reference in the European Union, namely a credit rating agency established in the Community and registered in accordance with this Regulation. (6c) A credit rating agency that has endorsed credit ratings issued in a third country should be fully and unconditionally responsible for the endorsed credit ratings. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) Credit rating agencies should establish appropriate internal policies and procedures in relation to employees involved in the credit rating process in order to prevent conflicts of interest and ensure at all times the quality, integrity and thoroughness of the rating and review process. (8) Credit rating agencies should establish appropriate internal policies and procedures in relation to employees and other persons involved in the credit rating process in order to identify, eliminate or manage and disclose conflicts of interest and ensure at all times the quality, integrity and thoroughness of the credit rating and review process. An internal control system and a compliance function should, in particular, feature among such policies and procedures. Justification Technical amendment. It reflects the new wording of the respective article