'co-regulation', which combines binding legislative or regulatory action with practical action taken by the actors concerned. The draftsman would emphasise that, having gradually taken on the role of co-legislator with each new treaty, the EP is certainly not prepared to restrict its codecision powers. Legislation based on regulations (which are directly applicable in the Member States) is undoubtedly simpler and faster, but it is less democratic than legislation adopted under the codecision procedure by the European Parliament, whose Members are elected by universal suffrage. Conversely, accelerated procedures (a single reading) could be used more widely and the possibility of new forms of regulations could be explored as long as the balance between the institutions laid down by the Treaty is maintained; ∙ oversight of implementation: the White Paper states that 'the European Parliament should enhance its control on the execution of EU policies and the implementation of the budget. This means departing from the present emphasis on detailed accounting with more policy-oriented control based on political objectives' . Over the last few years, and in particular during the 2001 and 2002 budget procedures, Parliament has endeavoured to improve its oversight of implementation (absorption of outstanding commitments on the one hand and planning of expenditure on the other). Some adjustments to the EP's in-house procedures have become necessary. The Commission should say exactly which it means by emphasis on 'accounting' ; ∙ strategic planning: in her report on the White Paper, the draftsman stressed the importance of the new planning and management tools introduced by the Commission (APS, ABM and ABB). She feels it necessary to point out here that these tools cannot be of any interinstitutional significance unless they cover the various stages in the budget procedure without changing the balance of power between the institutions; ∙ setting up new regulatory agencies: the Committee on Budgets has repeatedly expressed doubts about outsourcing (TAOs, executive agencies and national agencies) and drawn attention to the risks it involves in terms of supervision, the fragmentation of resources, the relinquishing of public service duties and the cost of the agencies themselves. A report which the Commission recently drew up at the Committee on Budget's request confirms the fact that decentralised activities cost more than centralised activities. In its resolution on the first reading of the budget A5-330/2001 , paragraph 25. , Parliament called on the Court of Auditors to conduct an assessment of the agencies' productivity and effectiveness. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: - whereas, although they have a direct impact on the general public, the measures funded from the Union's budget do not have a high enough profile and therefore fail to make people sufficiently aware of the European added value provided, 1. Points out first of all that the principle of European governance cannot exist without democratically adopted own resources and without a major simplification of budgetary procedures that will ensure that they are properly understood by the general public; 2. Calls