that it is investment in research, development, training and life-long learning which will be able to boost those sectors which are currently suffering from a lack of competitiveness; 59. Calls on the Commission to facilitate the establishment of a dispute settlement system, to enable the European agreements between social partners to develop into an effective and flexible tool that can foster a more effective regulatory approach at European level; 60. Calls on the Member States to remove the restrictions on access to their labour markets and thus improve worker mobility within the EU, thereby enabling the goals of the Single Market and the Lisbon Strategy to be achieved more swiftly; 61. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, and the Parliaments of the Member States and candidate countries. . EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The aim of the Commission's Green Paper on 'Modernising labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century' is to launch a public debate in the EU on how labour law can be modernised to meet the main challenges deriving above all from globalisation and the ageing of European societies. Moving labour law in this direction seems to be vital if the two most important aims of the Lisbon Strategy - making the EU the world's most competitive economy by 2010 and creating high levels of employment - are to be achieved. Since growth in employment is possible only in combination with economic growth, modernisation of labour law must take into account the expectations of both workers and employers. In fact, these are not completely divergent in the European Union, where a culture of conflict - the philosophical basis of labour law, which was originally intended to protect the weaker party in the employment relationship - is gradually being replaced by a culture of cooperation. At present, the shared aim of workers and employers is to be able to adapt to changing conditions stemming from rapid technological development, increased competitiveness - a consequence of both globalisation and changing consumer demand - and also from the very swift development of the services sector. At the Hampton Court Summit in October 2005, taking these factors into account, the European Council adopted, a Commission communication on European values in a globalised world, which called on the Member States to apply active labour market policies and promote flexibility and adaptability designed 'to protect people rather than jobs'. The communication also pointed to the need to improve the regulatory environment at EU and national level, so as to 'free businesses and citizens from unnecessary costs and red tape'. The Green Paper appears to be a continuation of the line of thinking which holds that the creation of a more flexible labour law framework is essential. This does not mean a radical retreat from compulsory standards of employment security, but may require changes in the quality of those standards reflected in a change from the concept of 'job security' to that of 'employment security' and from the notion of 'security with a job' to that of 'security of a job'. Labour