potential advantages for Fusion power stations (focussed on the completion of the construction of the W7-X stellarator device), theory and modelling aimed at a comprehensive understanding of the behaviour of fusion plasmas and co-ordination, in the context of a keep-in-touch activity, of Member States’ civil research activities on inertial confinement. · Human resources, education and training In view of the immediate and medium term needs of ITER, and for the further development of fusion, initiatives aimed at ensuring that adequate human resources will be available, in terms of numbers, range of skills and high level training and experience will be pursued. · Infrastructures The construction of the international fusion energy research project ITER will be an element of the new research infrastructures with a strong European dimension. Justification Same justification as Amendment 2. Amendment 9 Annex 1, Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection, Title NUCLEAR FISSION AND RADIATION PROTECTION NUCLEAR RADIATION PROTECTION Justification The nuclear sector has been in commercial operation of over fifty years and thus it cannot be described as an infant technology. Furthermore, the nuclear utilities in Europe generate tens of billions of Euro in revenue each year. The development of the new reactor systems, if any, should therefore be funded only by the nuclear utilities themselves. In all uses of radiation, throughout industry and medicine alike, the overriding principle must be the protection of man and the environment that is why the focus of the FP7 should concentrate mainly on radiation protection. Amendment 10 Annex 1, Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection, Objective Establishing a sound scientific and technical basis in order to accelerate practical developments for the safer management of long-lived radioactive waste, promoting safer, more resource-efficient and competitive exploitation of nuclear energy and ensuring a robust and socially acceptable system of protection of man and the environment against the effects of ionising radiation. Establishing a sound scientific and technical basis in order to accelerate practical developments for the safer management of radioactive waste, and spent fuel on the basis of polluter and precautionary principles, and ensuring a robust and socially acceptable system of protection of man and the environment against the effects of past, present and future ionising radiation. Justification Same justification as Amendment 9. Amendment 11 Annex 1, Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection, Rationale N uclear power currently generates one third of all electricity consumed in the EU and is the most significant source of carbon-free base-load electricity presently available. The European nuclear sector as a whole is typified by cutting-edge technology and provides highly skilled employment for several hundred thousand people. As an indigenous and dependable source of energy, nuclear power contributes to the EU’s independence and security of supply, with more advanced nuclear technology offering the prospect of significant improvements in efficiency and use of resources, at the same time ensuring even higher safety standards and producing less waste than current designs. Thanks mainly to the worldwide exception of France , n uclear power currently generates less than one third of all electricity consumed in the EU and is the most significant source of carbon-free