which could be misleading as regards possible risks to human or animal health or to the environment, such as the terms "low risk", "non-toxic" or "harmless". 3. Member States may prohibit or restrict the advertising of plant protection products in certain media. CHAPTER VIII CONTROLS Article 70 Record keeping 1. Producers, suppliers, distributors and professional users of plant protection products shall keep records of the plant protection products they produce, store or use for at least 10 years after the end of production or use. They shall make the ▐information contained in these records available to the competent authority▐. They shall also keep this information available for neighbours and residents , retailers or the drinking water industry who request direct access to it. The information on all applications of plant protection products on a given agricultural product shall be provided to retailers and wholesalers in the form of a pesticide passport. 2. Producers of plant protection products shall undertake post-registration monitoring. They shall notify the competent authorities of any relevant information and keep the information available to relevant stakeholders on request. 3. Producers of plant protection products shall inform the competent authorities about: – the amounts produced of a given substance or product, – the amounts of a given substance or product delivered to processors or wholesalers within the EU, – the amounts exported of a given substance or product. This information shall be assessed and published by the competent authorities. 4. Implementing measures to ensure the uniform application of paragraphs 1 and 3 may be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4) . Article 71 Monitoring and controls Member States shall carry out official controls in order to enforce compliance with this Regulation. These controls shall include controls on the farm, in order to verify compliance with use restrictions. Member States shall finalise and transmit to the Commission a report on the scope and the results of these controls within six months of the end of the year to which the reports relate. Commission experts shall carry out general and specific audits in the Member States for purposes of verifying the official controls carried out by the Member States. A Regulation, adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty, shall set out provisions for the controls on the production, packaging, labelling, storage, transport, marketing, formulation and use of plant protection products. That Regulation shall contain provisions equivalent to Articles 1 to 13, 26, 27(1), 27(4)(a) and (b) and 27(5) to (12), 28, 29, 32 to 45, 51, 53, 54, 66 and to Annexes I, II, III, VI, and VII to Regulation (EC) No 882/2004. It shall also contain provisions concerning the collection of information and reporting on suspected poisonings and shall detail the information to be made available in response to medical demand. CHAPTER IX EMERGENCIES Article 72 Emergency measures Where it is clear that an approved substance, safener, synergist or co-formulant or a plant protection product which has been authorised in accordance with this Regulation is likely