a "Mediterranean Union" over dinner, reportedly at France's suggestion. The PES group would welcome this idea, provided that it aims to upgrade the Barcelona process within the EU policy context. However, if the EU were divided over the idea, then it would send a very bad message, and this should be made clear to France, he said. Mr Schulz thanked President Barroso for taking up Parliament's ideas on the economic policy guidelines, and called on him to urge Member States to put their substance into practice. "There is progress", he said, acknowledging that "unemployment is down and productivity is up". However, "many new jobs are precarious, wages are not keeping pace with profits, and social imbalances remain. We need more social welfare and protection". If "economic progress is uncoupled from social responsibility", then "the spirit of the past 50 years will be jeopardised", he continued, adding that corporate relocations, which benefit companies, rather than workers are "a blow to confidence in the EU". "Of course we need to harness the potential of our young people, by investing in training", he continued, but if funding for this depends on their parents' wealth, then "this does not amount to a social policy", he concluded. This Council is taking place somewhere on the road between despair and hope" said Graham WATSON (UK)for the ALDE group, citing uncertainties about Turkey, Russia and the Middle East, slowing growth and banking sector crises. Mr Watson stressed the urgent need to act on climate change, security and stability, noting that in some quarters, "NATO is viewed as an instrument of energy security". "Some Member States are already seeking to limit their commitment to the climate change plan", he said, citing paragraph 18 of the draft Council conclusions. In fact, "only by extending solidarity beyond our borders can we enjoy security around the Caspian and the Mediterranean", he said. "Despite strong headwinds, economic fundamentals are getting stronger", he noted, adding that some MEPs' concerns about corporate relocation "ignore what's happening in the global economy". "Half our income comes from trade", he continued, stressing that the world economy is "not a zero-sum game" and that "6.5 million jobs have been created in the past 2 years". The Council must boost the budget for research, and improve transparency in banking, but in the end, "markets are the most important tool we have to improve living standards", he concluded. Brian CROWLEY (UEN, IE) began by pointing out that the reality is that one proposal will not lead to the required solution. It will be a combination of all. He spoke of the need to 'try to drag the best ideas out of all the proposals'. As an example, he pointed out that unemployment can't be solved 'simply by saying we want more jobs'. He said that 'only so much can be done by public services ..[..].. ultimately it comes down to businessmen and businesswomen ..[..].. investing more money in creating more jobs'. Mr Crowley spoke of the challenges ahead - the lack of investment in proper research and development for example and the