knowledge and expertise in relation to the rights of citizens as expressed through the right of petition with which the 'Citizens' initiative' has much in common. This is, in fact, the first time the Petitions Committee has been involved in legislative activity of any sort. Parliament also considered it to be desirable to allow the Committees responsible to appoint co-rapporteurs, rather than a single rapporteur, in order to ensure the broadest base for an agreement on the issue. Accordingly AFCO, and then PETI, appointed their co-rapporteurs and since then all four have met on a large number of occasions (including meetings with other committee rapporteurs for opinion) in order to deliver a single well-motivated document which represents a more simplified, more user-friendly, more practical and more transparent regulation, better tuned to the contemporary environment within which European politics is evolving. If the Lisbon Treaty is to mean anything to European citizens then it is on the basis of the functioning of the Citizens' Initiative that it will be judged. As a result of extensive consultation and debate, a number of important changes have been introduced compared to the Commission's draft and the known position of Council. These concern above all the modifications to the registration procedure (itself related to the conditions and the criteria for admissibility) and the introduction of a most significant change which will give the 'right to sign' to all European citizens of the age of 16 and above. This is considered to be essential and it will inevitably provide a means to generate better and more informed debates about Europe and its future amongst the youth of today in their schools and colleges, and also provide them as well with a potentially important additional stake in tomorrow's policies. A third element is the affirmation that all successful initiatives should be entitled to be heard by the institutions at a public hearing, where the Petitions Committee in particular, intends to play a major role. Lastly, it is considered most important by the co-rapporteurs, that the excessive attention placed by the Commission and the Member States on identity verification creates too many barriers for effective participation and a more simplified procedure is proposed which concentrates on ensuring that safeguards are introduced to prevent individuals from signing more than once and otherwise ensure that the credibility of the proposal is maintained. The Citizens Initiative, under the terms of the Treaty of Lisbon, is addressed by citizens to the Commission which, as a result, must make some important administrative changes to accommodate their new responsibility. The draft changes proposed by the co-rapporteurs would provide citizens with the same rights of initiative as the Parliament which already enjoys a right of initiative under the terms of Article 225 of the Lisbon Treaty and the Interinstitutional Framework Agreement, paragraph 16. It must be understood that the Citizens' Initiative gives the right to Europe's citizens to make a legislative proposal and it is distinct from the right of petition which has been enshrined in all EU Treaties since Maastricht. In Article 227 of the Lisbon