applicant complies with all requirements under the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive. 2. The investment firm shall provide all information, including a programme of operations setting out inter alia the types of business envisaged and the organisational structure necessary to enable the competent authority to satisfy itself that the investment firm has established, at the time of initial authorisation, all the necessary arrangements to meet its obligations under the provisions of this Chapter. 3. An applicant shall be informed, within six months of the submission of a complete application, whether or not authorisation has been granted. Article 7 Withdrawal of authorisations The competent authority may withdraw the authorisation issued to an investment firm where such an investment firm: a) does not make use of the authorisation within 12 months, expressly renounces the authorisation or has provided no investment services for the preceding six months, unless the Member State concerned has provided for authorisation to lapse in such cases; b) has obtained the authorisation by making false statements or by any other irregular means; c) no longer meets the conditions under which authorisation was granted, such as compliance with the conditions set out in Directive 93/6/EEC; d) has seriously and systematically infringed the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive governing the operating conditions for investment firms; e) falls within any of the cases where national law, in respect of matters outside the scope of this Directive, provides for withdrawal. Article 8 Persons who effectively direct the business 1. Member States shall require the persons who effectively direct the business of an investment firm to be of sufficiently good repute and sufficiently experienced as to ensure the sound and prudent management of the investment firm. 2. Member States shall require the investment firm to notify the competent authority of any changes to its management, along with all information needed to assess whether the new staff appointed to manage the firm are of sufficiently good repute and sufficiently experienced. 3. The competent authority shall refuse authorisation if it is not satisfied that the persons who will effectively direct the business of the investment firm are of sufficiently good repute or sufficiently experienced, or if there are objective and demonstrable grounds for believing that proposed changes to the management of the firm pose a threat to its sound and prudent management. 4. Member States shall ensure that the management of investment firms is undertaken by at least two persons meeting the requirements laid down in paragraph 1. By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, Member States may grant authorisation to investment firms which are natural persons or to investment firms which are legal persons managed by a single natural person in accordance with their constitutive rules and national laws. Member States shall nevertheless ensure that alternative arrangements are in place which ensure the sound and prudent management of such investment firms. Article 9 Persons exercising effective control and acquisitions of qualifying holdings 1. Member States shall require any shareholder owning a qualifying holding in the investment firm to be suitable, having regard to the