Answer given by Ms Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (3 December 2008) The Commission is concerned by the negative impact that organised crime and especially drugs trafficking have on Mexico’s public security. Therefore, the Commission supports the efforts of the Mexican Government in the fight against organised crime but, in the same time, it stresses the importance of respecting all human rights in this undertaking. The Commission welcomed a whole series of measures against impunity and organised crime as part of the latest national security plan presented by the Mexican Government at the 8th EU‑Mexico Joint Committee that took place in Mexico, 13-14 October 2008. On this occasion, both parties agreed to strengthen bilateral cooperation on human rights through a more regular dialogue and also to jointly explore ways of cooperating on public security. The Delegation in Mexico is paying close attention to the human rights situation by preparing regular factsheets, meeting with human rights defenders, carrying out field visits and developing an ongoing dialogue with the local civil society organisations. In the area of cooperation, the EU has financed projects related to the judicial system and human rights. In particular at bilateral level, the 2002‑06 country strategy for EU‑Mexico cooperation included a project focusing on modernization of administration of justice with the Public Prosecutor's Office. Under the current Country Strategy Paper 2007‑13, a Human Rights cooperation project has been launched in 2008 together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as a continuation of the Human Rights Cooperation Programme in Mexico financed by European initiative for democracy and human rights (EIDHR). Since 2002, the EIDHR has supported forty-nine projects in Mexico for a total of roughly EUR 9 million. Furthermore, the Delegation visited the state of Chihuahua in May 2008 to gain further information on justice reforms and the issue of feminicides. The Commission continues to address the issue with its Mexican counterparts in the framework of the dialogue with the Mexican Government and through specific cooperation programmes implemented with the Mexican authorities and non-governmental organisations. The promotion of human rights remains an essential element of the EU‑Mexico global agreement from 2000 and is also referred to in the recently launched EU‑Mexico Strategic Partnership that complements the agreement with a focus on multilateral affairs.