further work and analysis in this area by the European Parliament and committee on budgets. Section I - NGOs and EU development policy 2. Taken together with bilateral development assistance by EU member states and monies paid through the European Development Fund (EDF), the European Union is the world's largest provider of development assistance. NGOs are involved in the implementation of each of these channels of EU development assistance. This working document focuses on development assistance provided through European Community channels, on which the European Parliament has co-decision powers and discharge authority and thus an obligation to scrutinise implementation. NGOs are extensively involved in the implementation of the EU's external relations and development programmes. Out of a total volume of approximately € 5.1 billion under heading 4 of the EU Budget in 2005, it can be estimated that some € 800 to € 900 million are allocated to NGOs alone, i.e. some 15-18% Estimation based on NGO data provided by the Commission in 2004, and the cost-benefit study on development in the framework of the 2007 budget procedure. . 3. It should be noted, however, that the previous Commission at one point put the figure at some € 1.6 billion. Following various demands for clarifications by the Committee on Budgets, these figures were eventually adjusted downwards as they also included various other "non-state actors", such as universities, churches, foundations, trade unions etc. In the 2004 procedure, the general rapporteur (Mr Mulder, ALDE) concluded an estimated figure of € 1 billion going to NGOs. 4. If all non-state actors are included, counting also "international organisations" such as the UN agencies and the Red Cross family, the relevant figure is likely to amount to over € 2 billion, possibly even up to € 2,5 billion, i.e. half of the total aid volume disbursed under heading 4 of the budget. 5. The share of NGO funding in the external actions budget seems to have been relatively stable, and relatively high, over the 2000-2006 financial perspective. 6. The main areas of NGO spending under heading 4 are the following (nomenclature re-structured in PDB 2007): · Non-State actors in development (21 03), which was formerly the two lines for NGO co-financing and decentralised cooperation (nomenclature change in 2007 PDB) · Interventions under thematic programmes/budget lines (such as human rights and democracy) · Interventions under geographical programmes · Interventions through ECHO (humanitarian aid) The bulk of interventions here lie with the thematic actions and NGO co-financing, whereas the NGO participation in the geographical programmes seems to be more limited. 7. The Budgets Committee has looked into various budgetary and accountability aspects of NGOs during this period. The committee has scrutinised aspects such as: · overall share of NGO funding in heading 4; · elements of such funding that follow the normal rules of tendering; · elements of such funding that are given using the exception of "direct allocation" in the financial regulation; · indications as to the administrative costs of NGO projects funded by the Commission; · Commission activities to monitor the accountability of NGO beneficiaries; · overall