Trichet on financial market turmoil, interest rates and purchasing power Economic and monetary affairs 2008-03-26 - 16:29 ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said that inflation would stay relatively high for longer than expected and that the outlook for growth was "unusually uncertain" when he met the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee on Wednesday for the first of four Monetary Dialogue sessions in 2008. He was questioned by MEPs about the ECB's response to the financial market turmoil and its focus on controlling inflation. The ECB President told MEPs that risks to the medium term outlook for inflation were on the upside and "the period of relatively high inflation rates will be more protracted than previously expected." He said it was imperative that "second round effects on price and wage-setting from current inflation rates are prevented. This is the key to preserving price stability in the medium term and thereby the purchasing power of all euro area citizens." While ongoing growth was expected, albeit at slower rates than previously projected, "uncertainty about the prospects for economic growth remains unusually high." On conclusions to draw from the financial market turmoil, Mr Trichet said, "I would call for a further significant change of culture at the national, European and global level. I would sum up this culture change with two words: transparency and anti-cyclicality." (The full text of Mr Trichet's opening statement is available via the link below.) Improving behaviour in the financial markets Alexander Radwan (EPP-ED, DE) asked about herd behaviour and the need for transparency in financial markets. Would politicians need to act to provide a framework for a change in behaviour? Mr Trichet responded that "the observation that transparency is of the essence is not new"; it had been the key to avoiding contagion during the Asian crisis, and was so now: "where the is absence of transparency, it is conducive to hectic, herd behaviour and turbulence on markets." Public authorities, he said, "have to create an environment which is conducive for private institutions to behave as effectively as possible. The current situation is not appropriate and needs to improve." A number of MEPs, including Committee Chair Pervenche Berès (PES, FR) pressed Mr Trichet on whether it was time to look beyond codes of conduct or other measures of self-regulation and turn to regulation by public authorities to solve market failures. Mr Trichet said "We always need to ask market participants to improve behaviour themselves. If their response is not convincing, or if they cannot do it, then the time has come for regulation. I don't rule out regulation ex ante but it is good practice to see whether you can proceed by setting out best principles and benchmarking." He also emphasised the need to work with other jurisdictions, notably the US, on such issues, something he said was going on via the Financial Stability Forum. An "ongoing market correction" Was the worst of the current financial market crisis over, asked Wolf Klinz (ALDE, DE)? "The present situation is of an ongoing process of very significant market correction with episodes of turbulence, a