- However, at the political level the situation is quite different, and we first wish to ask the key question : do we have sufficient experience to enable us to evaluate the effectiveness of the Lamfalussy process and, on that basis, to give an opinion on the extension of the process to the whole of the financial services sector? Over the past few weeks we have held a series of hearings and exchanges of views in order to seek to give as precise and relevant as possible an assessment of the Lamfalussy process, questioning Mr Norbert Walter, rapporteur for the second report of the Interinstitutional Monitoring Group for the Lamfalussy process, a number of professionals representing market operators, our panel of financial experts (some 10 or so academics and professionals), the Commission representatives who have initiated and introduced legislative provisions on securities, and finally, of course, Mr Lamfalussy himself, with whom we held lengthy discussions on 24 February. Positive aspects clearly emerged: the relationship of trust enjoyed with the Commission services, which has enabled us to ensure genuine transparency, generally greatly improved interinstitutional cooperation, satisfactory conditions for consultation with market operators, quality and transparency of the proceedings of the CESR. These are all important points which we are pleased to be able to highlight and which are reflected in the first two assessment reports produced by the interinstitutional monitoring group composed of two experts nominated respectively by each of the three institutions. However, we have also noted weaknesses: the time required by the Council to reach decisions, which can be significantly longer than that required by the European Parliament, the excessive time taken to receive translations (more than five months in order to obtain the final text of an act adopted by the Council), the very short periods for consultations involving regulators and the consequently even shorter periods for consultations involving market operators. Mr Lamfalussy himself reflected on how transparency could be further increased, for example through more balanced representation of all parties involved in the markets (consumers, investment funds, small and medium-sized companies, etc), and on the issues of duplication in public consultation and the cost of such consultation for certain groups. Our panel of experts and a number of other professionals also drew our attention to the issue of the implementation of legislation at level 3, namely at the level of the Member States. As we have already indicated, none of the current directives on financial services has yet reached that stage. We can therefore only voice doubts and fears on this subject. How will national regulators transpose level 2 legislative provisions into their respective legislation? Will the Committee of European Securities Regulators have sufficient authority to ensure that provisions are implemented in an even manner? Will market operators have access to an appeals procedure or another procedure of that kind in order to contest national application of a regulation if they consider it to be more discriminatory than in other Member States? We are confronted here with an absolutely crucial problem which will be the true test of the