which constituted compelling reasons, why [the FOS] should exercise his discretion ". The reasons given by FOS for dismissing Penrose related complaints are mentioned under point VI.1.b.) above. ES 3 makes the following observations in this regard: " As the Penrose decision shows, FOS may decide not to investigate the grievances of particular investors if the matter complained of affects a large number of investors and calls for a regulatory approach. Although this approach may be justified in the circumstances, it reveals a significant gap in judicial protection because in practice there is a lack of alternatives for policyholders. The identification of mischiefs in an inquiry, such as that carried out by Lord Penrose, does not translate to concrete remedies for aggrieved consumers. Litigation is an uphill struggle because of practical difficulties and high transaction costs, the substantive law is unclear and, because of the requirements of materiality, reliance and the rules pertaining to the onus of proof, it is loaded against the consumer " (ES 3 Page 51. ). Finally, policyholders generally questioned the FOS's independence, pointing out that it is bound by the memorandum of understanding and claiming that it is essentially controlled by FSA, which appoints the FOS' Board and controls its budget. (e.g. Mr LAKE and Mr BRAITHWAITE, H1). Similarly, Mr SCAWEN in WE 23 Page 12. claims that the FOS's " primary obligation " would be " to the Financial Services Authority ". " It is highly politicised, effectively controlled by the FSA and Treasury with the apparent objective of keeping Equitable functioning rather than servicing the public ". The FOS rejects this by referring to the " statutory requirement for the operational independence of FOS from the Financial Service Authority " and asserts that " the Board of FOS does not attempt to influence or interfere with quasi-judicial decisions that the ombudsmen are required to take " (WE 27 Page 1. ). Regarding the relationship between the FSA and the FOS, Mr McELWEE (H3) pointed out their " quite discrete function ": " The FSA does not handle consumer complaints and the Ombudsman does not handle policy matters ." The FSA in its submissions to the committee (see for instance WE-CONF 7 Page 2. ) also stressed the independence of the FOS as did Mr THOMSON in H2 and H8: " The FOS is an independent entity that, from time to time, disagrees with the Society and indeed, from time to time, disagrees with the Regulator, the FSA. There are many in the industry who believe that the FOS is too consumer-oriented ... " (H8). Mr BAYLISS (H5), when asked whether in his opinion the FOS was a creature of industry, stated that " I certainly do not think that it is normally the tool of the industry . There are odd examples of that, but it tends to be because of the history of the individual rather than the institution ". The most extensive and comprehensive account of the criticism expressed by policyholders of the FOS's performance is contained in a report by Lord NEILL