is dimensioned for the exchange of alphanumerical and not of binary data (biometrics). A biometric component, known as BMS (Biometric Matching System) is currently under development by the European Commission and will be fully integrated with SIS II. It will notably allow complying with Article 20 of Regulation 1987/2006 on SIS II. Should the alternative scenario be activated in accordance to the mechanism envisaged in the June 2009 Council Conclusions, the new SIS 1 + RE solution will have to be fully compliant with the SIS II legal basis, including inter alia all SIS II functionalities. 8. The current technical solution for SIS II is being developed on the basis of a contract that resulted from an open call for tender by the Commission and a consortium composed of HP Belgium and Steria France. Alternative technical solutions that could potentially serve as contingency plans for the SIS II project appeared only after the failed operational system test in late 2008. The JHA Council in June 2009 retained the SIS 1+ RE technical solution, based on SIS 1+, as the contingency plan for SIS II. SIS 1+ can only be adapted to fulfil the SIS II functionalities within the legal and budgetary frameworks governing SIS II. In the report on the financial and contractual aspects of developing the SIS II as transmitted to the European Parliament and to the Council by the Commission on 12 April 2010, the cost of implementing the alternative scenario (SIS 1+ RE) during n+36 months is estimated to amount to EUR 49.73 million Report on the financial and contractual aspects of developing the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), Brussels, 12.4.2010, SEC(2010) 436 final. on the basis of the information provided by the French authorities. 9. The Council recognised in its Conclusions of 4-5 June 2009 ‘the existence of the alternative solution SIS 1+RE to realise the objectives set out in the legal framework governing the establishment, operation and use of SIS II’. Hence, should SIS II development be continued on the basis of the alternative technical solution, the latter would have to be implemented in accordance with the legal and budgetary framework applicable to SIS II. In the JHA Council Conclusions of 23 April 2010, ‘the Council [took] note of the information by France that the contingency plan “SIS 1+ RE” could no longer be implemented after September 2010 on the basis of the current contract.’ The Commission will continue the good cooperation with the French authorities in view of finding a solution that allows maintaining a contingency plan for SIS II until the completion of the Milestone 2 test. 10. Further to the invitation by the JHA Council on 23 April 2010 and following significant efforts undertaken jointly by all stakeholders, the Commission presented to the JHA Council on 3-4 June a comprehensive global schedule, which indicates the first quarter of 2013 as the date for the entry into operation of SIS II. This will be confirmed as a binding global schedule preferably by the end of July 2010 and at the latest at the