Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (10 February 2003) Considering that the criteria for membership agreed by the Copenhagen European Council in 1993 (21/22 June 1993) include the guaranteeing of the rule of law and human rights, the Commission attaches great importance to the development of effective and non-discriminatory law enforcement in all candidate countries. The Commission monitors respect of this commitment and informs the Parliament and the Member States periodically through its Regular Reports. The case cited by the Honourable Member concerns Bulgaria and the Commission is not aware that this is a problem experienced across all candidate countries. As concerns Bulgaria, the Commission clearly states in the 2002 Regular Report that police corruption is perceived to be a problem and that cases of bribery in the traffic and border police have been raised by Union citizens driving in and through Bulgaria. Following the Commission's request for improvements at the last meeting of the Union/Bulgaria Association Committee, the issue will continue to be discussed in the framework of both the Europe Agreement and the negotiations. Bulgaria's progress in this area will be continuously monitored until the date of accession. The fight against corruption is considered to be a priority for PHARE assistance in Bulgaria and four anti-corruption projects were approved in 2002. One of these exclusively covers corruption within the police force. Further to the complaints from Union citizens received by the Commission, the Commission has been presented with detailed information on apparent corruption-related cases which closely resemble the cases reported by ANWB, and Stichting Inspraakorgaan Turken in the Netherlands. The Commission will invite Bulgaria to take appropriate measures in order to prevent incidents of the specific character described in the complaints and to inform the Commission of the results of its actions. The Commission will inform the Honourable Member of the reply.