? - what is the impact assessment compared to the quantity of funding involved ? - what part of the funding has been dedicated to administrative expenditure and what part to operational expenditure ? - were human and financial resources efficiently used ? - what the European added value of the programmes / action ? Such cost benefit analysis and impact assessment should be carried out during the first semester of the year 2006 in order to proceed to the evaluations before EP’s first reading on the Draft Budget for 2007, in view of the political decision. The rapporteur is convinced that the new financial perspective offers an opportunity to develop a new concept of cost-benefit spending. 4. BEGIN PREPARING FOR THE REVIEW 41. Both the European Council and the European Parliament have asked for a mid-term review of the next multi-annual financial framework (MFF). Part III of the December 2005 European Council conclusions (paragraph 79) reads as follows: Europeans are living through an era of accelerating change and upheaval. The increasing pace of globalisation and rapid technological change continues to offer new opportunities and present new challenges . Against this background, the European Council agrees that the EU should carry out a comprehensive reassessment of the financial framework , covering both revenue and expenditure, to sustain modernisation and to enhance it, on an ongoing basis. 42. Both the Parliament and the Council share the view that the financial framework setting up mid-term political priorities needs to be adjusted to a fast developing world in order to allow the EU to maintain its political and economic position at internal level to meet the Lisbon objectives and at external level to meet the Millenium Goals, to achieve a successful Neighbouring Policy and to take leadership in the globalisation process. 43. The European Parliament's concern for the review is closely linked to the duration of said review. This is clearly outlined in para. 3 of the Parliament's negotiating position Texts Adopted, 8.6.2005, P6_TA-PROV(2005)0224 . , there should be a correspondence between the duration of the financial perspective and the 5-years mandates of the Commission and of the European Parliament for reasons of democratic responsibility and accountability. 44. Without prejudice to either the outcome of the future IIA or to the contents of the next financial perspective, the rapporteur considers that the Budget 2007, as the first budget of the next period, represents an opportunity to launch the new programmes within the scope of adjustments to new needs which might appear in the first part of the period. This will be the subject of a more detailed working document later in the budget process. 45. The review of all aspects of EU spending and resources planned for 2008 will offer a real opportunity to have a close look at the ways in which our money is spent. There will never be more willingness to accept changes than in times when resources are scarce. Only a comprehensive reassessment of revenue and expenditure will enable us "to shake up the system" in order to meet the challenges