established in a Member State . Organisations which do not have legal personality under the applicable national law shall have representatives that have the capacity to undertake legal obligations on their behalf and assume liability. Justification The use of plural is justified by Article 3 paragraph 1a (new). The deletion is necessary because organisers should only be natural persons. Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Organisers shall form a citizens' committee of at least seven persons who are residents of at least seven Member States. The organisers shall designate one representative and one substitute, who shall perform a liaison function between the citizens' committee and the institutions of the European Union throughout the procedure and who shall be mandated to speak and act on behalf of the citizens' committee. Justification In order to facilitate the emergence of real European-wide issues, the reflection on those issues and the collection of signatures throughout the Union, the initiative should be proposed by a defined number of citizens who should set up a citizens' committee. The committee should be able to speak with one voice, hence the obligation to designate a contact person and a substitute. Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. In order to be eligible to support a proposed citizens' initiative, signatories shall be citizens of the Union and shall be of the age to be entitled to vote in the European elections . 2. In order to be eligible to support a proposed citizens' initiative, signatories shall be citizens or legal residents of the Union and shall be at least 16 years old . Justification In order to foster the participation of young European citizens in shaping the Union's future and to encourage wider participation in the Union's democratic life, it is appropriate to set a lower age limit than the age to be entitled to vote in most Member States and than the age limit for the members of a citizens' committee. Amendment 28 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories for a proposed citizens' initiative, the organiser shall be required to register it with the Commission, providing the information set out in Annex II, in particular on the subject-matter and objectives as well as on the sources of funding and support for the proposed citizens' initiative. 1. Prior to initiating the collection of statements of support from signatories for a proposed citizens' initiative, the organisers shall be required to register it with the Commission, providing the information set out in Annex II, in particular on the subject-matter and objectives of the proposed citizens' initiative. The organisers shall provide, for the register defined in the third subparagraph and where appropriate on their website, regularly updated information on the sources of support and funding for the initiative. This information shall be provided in one of the official