the forms used to deliver them (b) data on bioavailability and metabolisation. In particular, the labelling of processing aids used for wine and beer processing requires an exception. This reintroduces the idea of Amendment 7 from first reading with a view to a compromise with the Council. Amendment 3 ARTICLE 1, PARAGRAPH 1, POINT (F) Article 6, paragraph 11, subparagraph 2 (new) (Directive 2000/13/EC) Updating could also be effected by the deletion from Annex IIIa of ingredients for which it has been scientifically established that it is not possible for them to cause adverse reactions. Updating could also be effected by the deletion from Annex IIIa of ingredients for which it has been scientifically established that it is not possible for them to cause adverse reactions. In this regard, on or before 1 January 2004 the Commission shall, following an opinion of the European Food Safety Authority, adopt a provisional list of products which although derived from a product listed in Annex IIIa should, by virtue of their composition and usage and in the light of the available evidence, be considered not to be allergenic and which are consequently not included in Annex IIIa. Justification The amendment will ensure that those products used in the manufacturing process which are derived from allergenic ingredients do not need to be labelled as containing allergens, on implementation of this Directive, if all allergenic material has been removed in the production process. The timing of the decision is crucial to manufacturers as they need to be prepared for the date of implementation and would therefore have to invest in alternative products or processes in advance. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The Council common position, adopted by qualified majority on 20 February 2003, takes into account the majority of the amendments adopted by the European Parliament in first reading, and in particular: ∙ the regular review of the list of allergenic substances and the possibility for the Commission of issuing technical guidelines for its interpretation (am. 7, second part, and am. 11); ∙ the addition of two allergenic ingredients, celery and mustard and their derived products, to the Annex (ams. 8 and 9); ∙ the addition of mixtures of mushrooms to the other mixtures whose labelling must not necessarily respect the rule of descending order of weight (am. 2); ∙ the abolition of the possibility of not repeating an ingredient used several times in the preparation of a foodstuff (am.14); ∙ the abolition of the labelling derogation for ingredients consisting of preparations of sauces or mustards constituting less than 5% of the finished product in foodstuffs (am. 6). Your rapporteur therefore welcomes the text proposed by the Council on these issues. On two other aspects, the common position tries to address the concerns expressed by Parliament without fully incorporating its amendments: ∙ the possibility of not strictly respecting the descending order of weight when enumerating ingredients used in quantities less than 5% (am. 13); ∙ the possibility of not indicating the composition of compound ingredients used in quantities less than 5% when the composition of the compound ingredient is defined