Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (9 November 2006) 1. The Commission refers the Honourable Member to the EFSA statement issued on 14 September 2006 on the risks to Europeans' health related to the inadvertent presence of genetically modified (GM) rice LLRICE601. EFSA concluded that the available data are not sufficient to allow the safety of LLRICE601 to be assessed in accordance with the EFSA guidance for risk assessment. However, on the basis of the available molecular and compositional data and on the toxicological profile of phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (PAT) proteins, EFSA considers that the consumption of imported long grain rice containing trace levels of LLRICE601 is not likely to pose an imminent safety concern to humans or animals. 2. The Commission does not consider that it has made alarming statements on transgenic foodstuffs, and in particular on the possible adverse effects due to the presence of LLRICE601. At the present time, the placing on the market of any genetically modified rice (including LLRICE601) that has not been properly evaluated and authorised in accordance with EU legislation, is illegal. Member States have the primary responsibility for enforcing these requirements and verifying that they are fulfilled by business operators. In agreement with them, the Commission, has adopted proportionate measures to prevent the illegal placing on the market of genetically modified rice LLRICE601, thus contributing to the enforcement of the EU legislation on GM food and feed. It is this information that has been communicated by the Commission to the public. 3. Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and feed OJ L 268, 18.10.2003. requires that a genetically modified food may only be placed on the EU market when it is covered by an authorisation ensuring that it has been adequately and sufficiently demonstrated that it has no adverse effects on human health, animal health or the environment. The Commission is not aware of any case anywhere in the world in which consuming a transgenic foodstuff has had serious or fatal consequences for human beings. The only significant case of potential effects on human health related to a commercial crop of which the Commission is aware is related to the case of the maize Starlink that was authorised in the US for feed use only and entered the food chain. Due to potential risk of allergenic reaction to the specific protein, a recall from the market of the products containing this genetically modified organism (GMO) was carried out US FDA, FDA consumer, March-April 2001 (http://www.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/fdbioen2.html). .