funding allocated to projects for civil society, implementation of the programme for reform of the judicial system and the creation of a subcommittee on human rights, D. noting, in this context, that the only result achieved by the Commission was the conclusion of a convention on financing the reform of the justice system, E. whereas the law creating a Higher Institute for Lawyers, envisaged in that convention, was adopted by the Tunisian Parliament at the beginning of May 2006 without the outcome of the consultations with the Lawyers' Association having been taken into account, and noting that the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Independence of Judges and Lawyers has still not received an invitation from the Tunisian Government, F. expressing concern at the ban imposed on the Congress of the Tunisian Human Rights League (LTDH), which was to have been held on 27 and 28 May 2006, and at the use of force and acts of violence against defenders of human rights and international observers, G. pointing out that the LTDH is the first Arab and African human rights league and is one of the pillars of independent civil society in Tunisia, H. whereas the human rights situation in Tunisia still gives cause for concern and whereas the approaches made thus far by the Council and the Commission have clearly demonstrated their limitations, I. whereas Tunisia has held the presidency of the EMPA since 1 April 2006, which constitutes a major responsibility for the country as regards promoting democracy and human rights in the context of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, J. recalling the role played by Tunisia in the development of a Euro-Mediterranean area of peace, prosperity and democracy, 1. Points out that Tunisia and the European Union have been linked since 1998 by a Euro-Mediterranean association agreement, Article 2 of which contains a human rights clause constituting an essential element of that agreement; 2. Regrets the fact that the situation as regards freedoms and human rights in Tunisia is still a cause for concern and calls on the Tunisian authorities to fulfil their international commitments; 3. Expects the Tunisian authorities to provide explanations for the ban on the Congress of the LTDH and for any acts of violence against defenders of human rights and Tunisian judges; 4. Calls on the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to make a public statement on the ban on holding the LTDH congress and on the violence against Tunisian human rights defenders, lawyers and judges; 5. Reiterates its request to the Council and the Commission to organise a meeting of the Association Council in order to discuss the human rights situation in Tunisia; 6. Calls on the Council and the Commission, in this context, to take swiftly all necessary steps vis-à-vis the Tunisian authorities to ensure that European funding allocated to civil society projects is unblocked and that Mr Mohammed Abbou is released; calls for the activities of human rights defenders to be fully guaranteed, in accordance with the relevant EU guidelines; 7. Calls on the Commission to do everything possible to ensure that the project for