not received and, in addition, the working documents drawn up by the Committee on Budgetary Control and opinions from specialised committees. d) an explanatory statement Delete Justification The aim here is to simplify the discharge decision by: ∙ Merging the proposal for a decision on discharge with that on the closure of accounts as there is no need to have separate decisions. ∙ No need to mention the explanatory statement as it is not formally required, although it will usually accompany a report. Or. en Amendment 4 Annex V, Article 4 Postponement of discharge Delete entire article 1. The committee responsible may table a motion for a resolution postponing the discharge decision. This motion shall set out the reasons for postponement. 2. Such a motion shall be included on the agenda of the next part session following its tabling. Justification There is no need for a separate article on postponement any more. Or. en Amendment 5 Annex V, Article 5 Consideration in Parliament Consideration in Parliament 1. Any motion for a resolution on the discharge shall be included on the agenda of the first part-session following its tabling. 1. Any report on the discharge shall be included on the agenda of the first part-session following its tabling. 2. Only the motion for a resolution containing the comments accompanying the proposals for a decision or postponing the discharge decision may be the subject of amendments in Parliament. 2. Only the motion for a resolution containing the comments accompanying the proposals for a decision or postponing the discharge decision may be the subject of amendments in Parliament. 3. Adoption of the report in Parliament shall follow the order of Article 3. 3. Adoption of the report in Parliament shall follow the order of Article 3. 3(new). If the committee responsible tables a proposal for a decision to postpone the granting of discharge, the accompanying motion for resolution shall set out the reasons for postponement, the action which the Commission is expected to take (including the submission of any documents essential for Parliament to take an informed decision) and a deadline for action to be taken to enable discharge to be granted. 3 a)(new) If the proposal to postpone discharge attains a majority, the committee responsible shall present to plenary, by the end of October, a new report containing a proposal to grant or refuse to grant discharge. In this case, the decision formally closing the accounts shall also be postponed and retabled along with the new report. 4. The proposal for a decision closing the accounts shall be put to the vote whatever the outcome of the vote on granting or refusing to grant discharge (Article 3(a)). If this proposal is not adopted by Parliament, the report shall be deemed to be referred back to committee 4. If the proposal for a postponement of discharge is rejected the report shall be referred back to committee and a new report containing a proposal to grant or refuse to grant discharge presented to the next part-session. 4a (new) Where, at this stage of the procedure, a