the Commission shall inform Parliament, if so requested, of its position on the initiative before the relevant parliamentary committee. 16. The Commission shall inform Parliament of the list of its expert groups set up in order to assist the Commission in the exercise of its right of initiative. That list shall be updated on a regular basis and made public. Within this framework, the Commission shall, in an appropriate manner, inform the competent parliamentary committee, at the specific and reasoned request of its chairperson, on the activities and composition of such groups. 17. The two Institutions shall hold, through the appropriate mechanisms, a constructive dialogue on questions concerning important administrative matters, notably on issues having direct implications for Parliament's own administration. 18. Where confidentiality is invoked as regards any of the information forwarded pursuant to this Framework Agreement, the provisions laid down in Annex 1 shall be applied. (ii) External relations, enlargement and international agreements 19. In connection with international agreements, including trade agreements, the Commission shall provide early and clear information to Parliament both during the phase of preparation of the agreements and during the conduct and conclusion of international negotiations. This information covers the draft negotiating directives, the adopted negotiating directives, the subsequent conduct of negotiations and the conclusion of the negotiations. The information referred to in the first subparagraph shall be provided to Parliament in sufficient time for it to be able to express its point of view if appropriate, and for the Commission to be able to take Parliament’s views as far as possible into account. This information shall be provided through the relevant parliamentary committees and, where appropriate, at a plenary sitting. Parliament undertakes, for its part, to establish appropriate procedures and safeguards as regards confidentiality, in accordance with the provisions of Annex 1. 20. The Commission shall take the necessary steps to ensure that Parliament is immediately and fully informed of: (i) decisions concerning the provisional application or the suspension of agreements; and (ii) a Community position in a body set up by an agreement. 21. Where the Commission represents the European Community, it shall, at Parliament's request, facilitate the inclusion of Members of Parliament as observers in Community delegations negotiating multilateral agreements. Members of Parliament may not take part directly in the negotiating sessions. The Commission undertakes to keep Members of Parliament who participate as observers in Community delegations negotiating multilateral agreements systematically informed. 22. Before making, at donors’ conferences, financial pledges which imply new financial undertakings and require the agreement of the budgetary authority, the Commission shall inform the budgetary authority and examine its remarks. 23. The two Institutions agree to cooperate in the area of election observation. The Commission shall cooperate with Parliament in providing the necessary assistance to delegations of Parliament participating in Community election observation missions. 24. The Commission shall keep Parliament fully informed of the progress of accession negotiations and in particular on major aspects and developments, so as to enable it to express its views in good time through the appropriate parliamentary procedures. 25. When Parliament adopts a recommendation