3 Article 5 The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and calls on the participating States and the common structure to forward any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the financial management of the common structure. The Commission shall communicate all relevant information to the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors, and forward any additional information required by the European Parliament, the Council and the Court of Auditors concerning the financial management of the common structure. The Commission shall at mid-term of the programme and shortly after the end of the programme period submit an evaluation report to the European Parliament and the Council informing on the operations financed with the Community contribution, and the Commission’s conclusions on the implementation of the programme. Special attention should be devoted on the strengths and weaknesses of the management by the common structure. Justification The management of the programme shall be evaluated thoroughly. The European Parliament has to be provided with sufficient information to enable parliamentary control on the use of the Community funds. 21 January 2003 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on Community participation in a research and development programme aimed at developing new clinical interventions to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis through a long-term partnership between Europe and the developing countries, undertaken by a number of Member States and Norway ( COM(2002) 474 – C5-0392/2002 – 2002/0211(COD)) Draftsman (*): Ulla Margrethe Sandbæk (*) Enhanced cooperation between committees PROCEDURE The Committee on Development and Cooperation appointed Ulla Margrethe Sandbæk draftsman at its meeting of 2 October 2002. It considered the draft opinion at its meeting(s) of 12 November 2002, 2 December 2002 and 20 January 2003. At its meeting of 21 January 2003 it adopted the following amendments unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Joaquim Miranda, chairman; Margrietus J. van den Berg, vice-chairman; Anders Wijkman, vice-chairman; Ulla Margrethe Sandbæk, draftsman; Jean-Pierre Bebear, Yasmine Boudjenah, John Bowis, Marie-Arlette Carlotti, Maria Carrilho, John Alexander Corrie, Nirj Deva, Fernando Fernández Martín, Vitaliano Gemelli, Richard Howitt, Glenys Kinnock, Karsten Knolle, Wolfgang Kreissl-Dörfler, Paul A.A.J.G. Lannoye, Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez, Didier Rod, Francisca Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, Michel-Ange Scarbonchi (for Luisa Morgantini), Karin Scheele (for Karin Junker), Maj Britt Theorin and Jürgen Zimmerling. SHORT JUSTIFICATION The overall aim of the EDCTP is to accelerate the development and evaluation of new therapeutic and preventive interventions against HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB appropriate for use by developing countries. This aim will be achieved by strengthening programmes and activities in and building strong partnerships between Europe and developing countries. The EDCTP is intended to contribute significantly to the implementation of the PFA OJ C 87, 11.4.2002, p. 159. Programme for Action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB in the context of poverty reduction. Adopted by the Parliament 4.10.2001, Khanbai report. . Past investments in research and