objectives of this Article. Outside these protection areas, Member States shall also strive to avoid pollution or deterioration of habitats. Under the Habitats Directive, management requirements are specified in particular in Articles 4.4, 6.1 and 6.2: Article 4 4. Once a site of Community importance has been adopted (…), the Member State concerned shall designate that site as a special area of conservation as soon as possible and within six years at most, establishing priorities in the light of the importance of the sites for the maintenance or restoration, at a favourable conservation status, of a natural habitat type in Annex I or a species in Annex II and for the coherence of Natura 2000, and in the light of the threats of degradation or destruction to which those sites are exposed. Article 6 1. For special areas of conservation, Member States shall establish the necessary conservation measures involving, if need be, appropriate management plans specifically designed for the sites or integrated into other development plans, and appropriate statutory, administrative or contractual measures which correspond to the ecological requirements of the natural habitat types in Annex I and the species in Annex II present on the sites. 2. Member States shall take appropriate steps to avoid, in the special areas of conservation, the deterioration of natural habitats and the habitats of species as well as disturbance of the species for which the areas have been designated, in so far as such disturbance could be significant in relation to the objectives of this directive. Article 7 of the Habitats Directive stipulates moreover that the provisions of Article 6.2 also apply to the Special Protection Areas designated under the Bird Directive. Neither of the directives includes a requirement of establishing an administrative body, operated by the Member State. The Commission is aware that a dedicated directorate replacing the original agency was established in the Romanian Ministry of Environment in 2009. Ensuring the proper management of Natura 2000 sites is the responsibility of the Member States. The Commission supports Member States inter alia through the development of specific guidance and the co-financing of specific measures under various EU funding instruments. For example, EUR 171 988 693 from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) are allocated in the Operational Programme of Romania for the financial period 2007‑13 to support the ‘development of infrastructure and management plans to protect biodiversity and Natura 2000’. The LIFE+ programme provides additional financial support to specific measures or projects related to the management of Natura 2000 sites. Also, the Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) OJ L 277, 21.10.2005. provides for the possibility to compensate for costs incurred and income foregone resulting from disadvantages in Natura 2000 areas. However, so far the Romanian authorities have not implemented this support measure.