Answer given by Mrs Kroes on behalf of the Commission (9 April 2008) As a preliminary remark, the Commission wishes to clarify that it does not aim at modifying the Swedish press aid scheme in any specific way. It is for the Member States, and not for the Commission, to decide if and how to support the press, like any other sector of the economy. The role of the Commission is limited to ensuring that any state aid granted pursues a well-defined objective of common interest, without unduly distorting competition and adversely affecting trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. With regard to the first part of the Honourable Member's question, the Commission would like to point out that the main effect of the operating aid to the press is to continuously reduce costs of day-to-day commercial activities which the newspapers should normally bear in full. The operating aid can affect the beneficiaries’ ability to compete both inside and outside Sweden, for example when entering new markets and competing against newspaper (or other) companies which do not receive aid. The aid to the press has therefore the potential to distort competition between undertakings and to affect trade between Member States. Such aid may nevertheless be deemed compatible if it pursues a well-defined objective of common interest, without unduly distorting competition and adversely affecting trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. In view of certain doubts about the compatibility of the scheme with state aid rules, the Swedish authorities are considering possible amendments to the press aid regulation. The Commission services have been involved in ongoing discussions in a spirit of mutual collaboration, but it is up to the Swedish authorities to decide which changes should be introduced in the scheme to ensure compatibility with state aid rules. The Commission expects to receive the Swedish Government's formal proposals once finalised. It will only be required to take a decision on the proposed changes once they are formally notified to get clearance under EU state aid rules. As to the second part of the question, the Commission recognises the importance of media pluralism for the cultural, democratic and public debate in Member States and the importance of newspapers in this context. It is also conscious of the fact that it is not its role to interfere with Member States’ decisions with regard to the use of public resources. However, running a newspaper is also a commercial activity and the Commission has a duty to prevent undue distortions of competition and trade resulting from public subsidies. The Swedish press aid came under review by the Commission following both a complaint from a company active in the sector and a notification from the Swedish Government on planned modifications to the press aid regulation. In view of certain doubts about the compatibility of the scheme with state aid rules, the Swedish Government withdrew its notification with the intention of revising the entire regulation and submitting a new project that would be compatible with those rules. The Commission therefore has a duty