will thus allow the technical measures taken in comitology on the management of the electronic data exchange network to be incorporated and safeguard a number of rights provided by Directive 95/45/EC to be enshrined in the body of the directive and in the offence notification contained in the Annex. 4) Informing European drivers : European drivers must be informed of the implementation of this directive, in particular when they cross from one Member State to another. 5) Report and evaluation of the directive : your rapporteur proposes inserting in the directive an obligation for the Commission to report, two years after the entry into force of the directive, on its implementation and experience gathered following this evaluation. On the basis of this report, the Commission will be required to proposals for amending the directive, in particular as regards the effectiveness of implementation, its scope, the control practices and the standardisation of control equipment. 11.9.2008 OPINION of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council facilitating cross-border enforcement in the field of road safety ( COM(2008)0151 – C6‑0149/2008 – 2008/0062(COD) ) Rapporteur: Renate Weber SHORT JUSTIFICATION Rules set in the proposal are intended to facilitate the enforcement of sanctions provided for traffic offences (irrespective of their qualification as criminal or administrative offences) where the offender cannot be immediately identified, for instance because the offence was detected by means of electronic devices, or the offender is immediately identified but further investigation is required as, according to the proposal, it is the case for drink-driving. The scope of the proposal is rather narrow and covers four road traffic offences, meaning: speeding, drink-driving, non-use of seat-belt and failing to stop at a red traffic light. The proposal raises some concern from the point of view of the protection of fundamental rights. With regard to the offence of drink-driving, it must be noted that according to Article 2 (f) drink-driving means "driving with a blood alcohol level higher then the maximum level in force in the State of offence". This means that, irrespective from the fact that there are other less intrusive ways to detect drink driving, such as the breathalyzer, the proposal does not take into consideration the option of detecting drink-driving in a way which does not imply taking a blood sample from the suspect. This might deeply affect fundamental rights as far as no provision in the Directive clearly states that nobody can be obliged to provide a blood sample for this purpose and that drink-driving should in first instance always be detected by means of a breathalyzer. With regard to procedural guaranties, it is the opinion of the LIBE Committee that the Directive should provide that the offence must be detected by automated equipments or by competent law enforcement authorities at the time of its occurrence and that the notification procedure is compliant with the rule of law and notably with the principle of non self-incrimination. Finally, the LIBE Committee agrees