and especially to ratify promptly the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; 5. Reiterates its objections to a lifting of the arms embargo on the People's Republic of China and to the unjustified so-called 'anti-secession law' of the People's Republic of China violating the self determination of the people and Government of the ROC on Taiwan; 6. Calls on the People's Republic of China and on the ROC on Taiwan to resume a political dialogue on the basis of mutual understanding and recognition in order to promote stability, democracy, human rights and the rule of law in the Far East; 7. Calls on the Governments of Japan and the People's Republic of China to come to a final reconciliation between their governments and peoples as an important basis for peace and stability in the Far East; 8. Expresses its deep concern regarding the statement made by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea on 10 February 2005, declaring its intention to suspend for an indefinite period of time its participation in the multilateral talks on its nuclear programme, and calls on the Democratic People's Republic of Korea not to undertake the testing of a nuclear bomb and to resume the Six Nations Talks; furthermore, states its position that the European Union – being a partner of the KEDO process and supporting the people of North Korea with food – should participate in these talks; 9. Supports the Republic of Korea in its endeavour to achieve reconciliation with the Democratic People's Republic of Korea with the aim of reunification on the basis of multi-party democracy, the rule of law and compliance with universal human rights; 10. Calls on the Governments of Russia and Japan to settle their territorial disputes in order to conclude a final peace treaty; 11. Welcomes the willingness of the United States of America in particular to ensure the security and inviolability of Japan, the Republic of Korea and the ROC on Taiwan and generally to support peace and stability in the Far East; 12. Calls on all countries in the Far East to seek reconciliation among themselves sixty years after the end of World War II and to establish a system of mutual understanding and cooperation in order to secure lasting peace and stability in the Far East, and declares its willingness to support these endeavours; 13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the governments and parliaments of the countries mentioned in this resolution.