15 September 1999 JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 37(4) of the Rules of Procedure by the following Members: Lehne, Schleicher, Posselt and Sjostedt, on behalf of the PPE Group Krehl, Sakellariou, Wiersma and Jöns,on behalf of the PSE Group Haarder, on behalf of the ELDR Group Schroedter, Lambert, Isler Béguin and Voggenhuber, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group Alavanos and Vinci, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group replacing the motions: by the UEN Group ( B5-0071/99 ) by the PSE Group ( B5-0078/99 ) by the GUE/NGL Group ( B5-0085/99 ) by the PPE Group ( B5-0090/99 ) by the ELDR Group ( B5-0095/99 ) by the Verts/ALE Group ( B5-0103/99 ) on the armed conflict in the Dagestan Republic of Russia The European Parliament, - having regard to its assent of 30 November 1995 to the conclusion of an Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Russian Federation, of the other part OJ C 339,18.12.1995, p. 45 , and its assent of 11 June 1997 to the conclusion of the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States and the Russian Federation OJ C 200, 30.6.1997, p. 66. , - having regard to the EU’s support to the continued development of cooperation within the Black Sea Council, - having regard to the Common Strategy of the European Union on Russia, adopted by the Council in June 1999, - having regard to the Declaration by the Presidency of the Council on behalf of the EU on the situation in the Dagestan Republic of Russia and the Statement by the Chairman-in-Office of the OSCE on the Situation in Dagestan as of 13 August 1999, A. whereas the European Union is committed to strengthening the strategic partnership with Russia in terms of economic integration and of cooperation while maintaining stability and security in Europe and beyond, B. stressing the territorial integrity of the Russian Federation, C. whereas the Russian Federation is facing a serious economic, financial, social and institutional crisis, D. deeply concerned about the violent attacks on the territory of the Dagestan Republic of the Russian Federation perpetrated by extremist armed forces entering from Chechnya, E. worried about the escalation in the armed conflict between the extremist armed forces and the Russian military which is causing many victims and refugees among the civilian population in Dagestan and the Chechen Republic, F. considering the deteriorating economic situation in the Dagestan Republic and the widespread unemployment despite the considerable economic potential of the region, given its strategic position on the Caspian Sea for the transit of oil and gas transports, G. worried about the serious regional ramifications of the deteriorating security situation and the danger of further destabilisation in the Caucasian region, 1. Regrets deeply the loss of life among the civilian population and military personnel and calls upon the Russian authorities to carry out the operations necessary to restore internal security and order on Dagestan