swift opening up of the rail network is the only way to counteract the constant increase in heavy goods vehicles and expanding car and air traffic. They therefore want access to rail networks in all EU countries to be opened up by 1 January 2006 at the latest as regards rail freight and combined transport goods services. For passenger services, the committee is in favour of a deadline of 1 January 2008 for both national and international services. A clash with the Council seems certain and Mr Jarzembowski is proposing that the conciliation procedure be started as soon as possible to enable the two institutions to reach agreement before the end of the parliamentary term in May 2004. The recommendation by Dirk STERCKX (ELDR, B) on guidelines for railway safety rules contains an amendment demanding the development of a safe Community railway system, involving the harmonisation of driving time and rest periods and the establishment of a European driving licence for train drivers, in particular for staff used in international transport operations. MEPs also want Member States to ensure that train drivers and other staff performing vital safety tasks have an adequate command of the codes, vocabulary and language necessary for operational communications on the routes operated and for the procedures used. This working language should not necessarily be English or French but could depend on local circumstances. One amendment calls for the installation of a mandatory recording device (black box) on trains, similar to those used on planes. Council had refused to accept this in its common position but the committee is retabling Parliament's amendment at first reading. The recommendation for second reading by Sylviane AINARDI (EUL/NGL, F) on the question of the interoperability of the trans-European conventional railway system (compatibility between different networks) contains amendments stating that trains must be equipped with a recording device and that the data collected by this device and the processing of the information must be harmonised. The recommendation tabled by Gilles SAVARY (PES, F) says that the setting up of a European Railway Agency is an essential technical tool for the Community's railways and that therefore all actors in the rail industry, including rail staff unions, should be involved in its operation. Justice and Home Affairs Combating illegal trade in human organs Robert EVANS (PES, London) Report on the Initiative of the Hellenic Republic with a view to adopting a Council Framework Decision concerning the prevention and control of trafficking in human organs and tissues (7247/2003 – C5-0166/2003 – 2003/0812(CNS)) Doc.: A5-0326/2003 Procedure : Consultation Debate : 22.10.2003 Reporting for the Citizens' Rights Committee, Robert EVANS (PES, London) will be putting forward a non-binding draft resolution on the prevention of trafficking in human organs and tissues. Although welcoming the Greek proposal to make the trade in human organs illegal across Europe, the rapporteur is tabling a number of amendments. Thus he wants to define the illegal trafficking in human organs and tissues more precisely, so as to avoid penalising legitimate trade for medical purposes - as in the case of fertility treatment - while