Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (15 February 2007) It is correct to say that the EC allocated EUR 10 million for the European provincial reconstruction teams (PRTs) in 2006. With the funds now available, the arrangements are under way in Kabul to assess the different project proposals that are submitted by the PRTs. The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) is administering the funds on behalf of the Commission. In developing the PRTs programme, the EC Delegation in Kabul has had extensive contacts with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO)/International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) Mission/PRT representatives on the ground. As is noted, the EC is playing an active role in the reconstruction of Afghanistan. Inevitably, security is a key element for the success of any reconstruction efforts. The EC has been in regular consultation with ISAF and the PRTs about the development and implementation of its programmes. For example, the EC’s new rule of law sector programme covers both justice and policing in the provinces and there has been extensive discussion with ISAF on how such programmes could be implemented in the provinces. The Commission is very keen to ensure that all the EU efforts in Afghanistan are joined up and that the maximum synergies are made. While the Commission considers the NATO presence crucial to re-establish security in Afghanistan, the civilian dimension of peace building needs to be considered equally. In this vein, the recent EU rule of law missions to Afghanistan in September and December 2006 involved the Council, Commission and Member States experts. The proposed Council ESDP (European security and defence policy) Police Mission to Afghanistan would be an excellent complement to the Commission’s existing budget support to the police as well as to the new EC justice programme which is currently being configured. These coordination efforts will continue with regular policy level meetings between the EU institutions on the Commission's assistance to Afghanistan, especially in the difficult sector of rule of law. The Commission is convinced that these efforts are complementary to those managed under the NATO mandate in contributing to peace and stability in Afghanistan.