and their land, (b) to establish a moratorium by all members of the EU and NATO, pending the outcome of these investigations, (c) to work towards the possible introduction of a total ban on the use of (depleted) uranium in conventional ammunition, 1. Urges the Member States to adhere to the commitment made in the framework of UN General Assembly Resolution 62/30 adopted on 5 December 2007 and to submit a report with their views on the effects of the use of armaments and ammunition containing depleted uranium; 2. Recommends that the EU High Representative include a reference to the need to ban the use of depleted uranium ammunition in the revised European Security Strategy; 3. Requests that the Council and the Commission undertake thorough investigations into the use of depleted uranium in all regions where European military and civilian personnel have been deployed within the framework of international operations; urges both NATO and the US to engage constructively in offering their support and cooperation in these investigations; 4. Urges the Member States, the Council and the Commission to provide full information to their military and civilian personnel as to whether there is a probability that depleted uranium has been or might be used in their theatre of operations; requests, accordingly, that sufficient protective measures be taken in the event of hazardous ammunition being used; 5. Urges the Member States not to use depleted uranium weapons in ESDP operations; 6. Calls on the Member States, the Council and the Commission to establish an environmental inventory of depleted uranium-contaminated areas (including testing ranges) and to provide full support – including financial support – for projects that could assist victims and their relatives as well as for clean-up operations in the affected areas, should a negative effect on human health and the environment be confirmed; 7. Calls on all EU Member States and NATO countries to maintain or work towards the imposition of a ban on the use of (depleted) uranium in conventional ammunition, and systematically to halt production and procurement of this type of weaponry; 8. Calls on the Member States and the Council to take the lead in working towards an international treaty - through the UN or through a 'coalition of the willing' - to establish a ban on the development, production, stockpiling, transfer, testing and use of uranium weapons as well as the destruction or recycling of existing stocks; 9. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, NATO and the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the UN, Euromil, the International Red Cross, the World Health Organisation and the International Coalition to Ban Uranium Weapons.