Catherine Ashton: EU should do more to “punch its weight” politically External relations 2009-12-02 - 15:37 Catherine Ashton, the EU's new High Representative for foreign policy, assured MEPs on Wednesday that she had the qualities needed to do the job. During a discussion with the Foreign Affairs Committee she said she would help Europe “punch its weight” politically. Baroness Ashton will face a full parliamentary hearing in January as her appointment - along with that of the rest of the future European Commission - is subject to Parliament's approval. Lady Ashton said she believed in "quiet diplomacy" and "building confidence", and she wanted to "keep the traffic moving" rather than stopping it. She added however that when needed, "we must be out at the forefront with a loud voice". "We have a strong reputation in the world", noted Baroness Ashton, stressing that the EU's foreign policy is based on values, and the Union is the biggest provider of humanitarian and development aid in the world. Ways to cooperate with Parliament to be developed together Responding to José Ignacio Salafranca (EPP, ES), Lady Ashton said that the way in which Parliament and the High Representative would cooperate would have to be determined together. She planned to seek "to reach the highest common factor" among the 27 Member States, instead of the "lowest common denominator", she added. The High Representative told MEPs that she was counting on their expertise. Kristian Vigenin (S&D, BG) asked about EU-Russia relations, notably energy disputes and the situation of human rights and democracy. Lady Ashton insisted that continuing dialogue with Russia was crucial. Annemie Neyts-Uyttebroeck (ALDE, BE) warned against institutional turf wars between the Council and the Commission over foreign policy management. She added that the EEAS would be "the opportunity to build a new form of diplomacy". Lady Ashton stressed the importance of "using the energy of rotating presidencies wisely and clearly". “Not an arm of the UK government” Ulrike Lunacek (Greens/EFA, AT) stressed that "Europe needs a strong, united voice, a single face, a clear and transparent foreign and security policy". Lady Ashton reassured MEPs that she wouldn't be "an extended arm of the UK government". She added she was proud to be known as a pro-European in Britain and elsewhere. Charles Tannock (ECR, UK) was concerned about Lady Ashton's experience in foreign affairs and wondered why she was selected over others "better qualified for this job". Baroness Ashton said she had been the choice of 27 heads of state or government: "The skills I have are appropriate for this work", she added. Sabine Lösing (GUE/NGL, DE) warned against a possible discrimination against smaller Member States as jobs were allocated in the European External Action Service (EEAS). Lady Ashton agreed that smaller member states were "extremely important", and their involvement in the external service as well as in other projects must be ensured. Past role in CND questioned David Campbell Bannerman (EFD, UK) referred to Catherine Ashton’s past as treasurer of the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) in the early 1980s, as he asked if she "did