system). After having crossed the system boundary, the emitted substances are out of any human control and become part of natural materials cycles and may induce several types of environmental impacts. SECTION 3 List of characteristics Member States shall produce statistics on the emissions of the following air pollutants: Name of air emission Symbol of air emission Reporting unit Carbon dioxide without emissions from biomass CO2 1 000 tonnes (Gg) Carbon dioxide from biomass Biomass CO2 1 000 tonnes (Gg) Nitrous oxide N2O tonnes (Mg) Methane CH4 tonnes (Mg) Perfluorocarbons PFCs tonnes (Mg) CO2-equivalents Hydrofluorocarbons HFCs tonnes (Mg) CO2-equivalents Sulphur hexafluoride SF6 tonnes (Mg) CO2-equivalents Nitrogen oxides NOX tonnes (Mg) NO2-equivalents Non-methane volatile organic compounds NMVOCs tonnes (Mg) Carbon monoxide CO tonnes (Mg) Particulate matter < 10 µm PM10 tonnes (Mg) Particulate matter < 2.5 µm PM2.5 tonnes (Mg) Sulphur dioxide SO2 tonnes (Mg) Ammonia NH3 tonnes (Mg) All data shall be reported to one decimal place. SECTION 4 First reference year, frequency and transmission deadlines 1. Statistics shall be compiled and transmitted on a yearly basis. 2. Statistics shall be transmitted within 21 months of the end of the reference year. 2a. In order to meet user needs for complete and timely datasets, the Commission (Eurostat) shall produce, as soon as sufficient country data becomes available, estimates for the EU-27 totals for the main aggregates of this module. The Commission (Eurostat) shall, wherever possible, produce and publish estimates for data that have not been transmitted by Member States within the deadline specified in point 2. 3. The first reference year is the year in which this Regulation enters into force. 4. In the first data transmission, Member States shall include annual data from 2008 to the first reference year. 5. In each subsequent data transmission to the Commission, Member States shall provide annual data for the years n-4, n-3, n-2, n-1 and n, where n is the reference year. SECTION 5 Reporting tables 1. For each of the characteristics referred to in Section 3, data shall be produced by a hierarchical classification of economic activities, NACE Rev.2 (A*64 aggregation level ▌), fully compatible with ESA-95. In addition, data shall be produced for: - Household air emissions; - Bridging items, by which is meant reporting items which clearly reconcile the differences between the air emissions accounts reported under this Regulation and those data reported in official national air emission inventories. 2. The hierarchical classification referred to in paragraph 1 is as follows: Air emissions by industry ‐ NACE Rev.2 (A*64) Household air emissions - Transport - Heating/cooling - Other Bridging items Total ▌air emission accounts (industry + households) Less national residents abroad - National fishing vessels operating abroad - Land transport - Water transport - Air transport Plus non-residents on the territory + Land transport + Water transport + Air transport (+ or -) Other adjustments and statistical discrepancies = Total emissions of pollutant X as reported to UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. /CLRTAP Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution. SECTION 6 Maximum duration of the transitional periods For