3.7.3.1. Persistence An active substance fulfils the very persistent criterion (vP-) where there is evidence that: – the half-life in marine, fresh- or estuarine water is higher than 60 days, or – the half-life in marine, fresh- or estuarine water sediment is higher than 180 days, or – the half-life in soil is higher than 180 days. It also fulfils the very persistent criterion where there is evidence that the substance is otherwise sufficiently highly persistent to be of concern. 3.7.3.2. Bioaccumulation An active substance fulfils the very bioaccumulative criterion where the bioconcentration factor is greater than 5000. Assessment of bioaccumulation shall be based on measured data on bioconcentration in aquatic species. Data from both freshwater and marine water species can be used. It also fulfils the very bioaccumulative criterion when there is evidence of very high bioaccumulation in other species, or monitoring data in biota indicate that the bioaccumulation potential of the substance is sufficient to be of concern. 3.8. Ecotoxicology 3.8.1. An active substance shall only be considered as complying with Article 4 if the risk assessment demonstrates risks to be acceptable in accordance with the criteria laid down in the uniform principles for evaluation and authorisation of plant protection products referred to in Article 37 under realistic proposed conditions of use of a plant protection product containing the active substance. The assessment must take into account the severity of effects on biodiversity , the uncertainty of the data, and the number of organism groups which the active substance is expected to affect adversely by the intended use. 3.8.2. An active substance shall only be considered as complying with Article 4 if, on the basis of the assessment of Community or internationally agreed test guidelines, it is not considered to have endocrine disrupting properties that may be of toxicological significance on non-target organisms unless the exposure of non-target organisms to that active substance in a plant protection product, under realistic proposed conditions of use is negligible. 3.8.3. An active substance shall only be approved, if, on the basis of the assessment of Community or internationally agreed test guidelines and other available data and information including a review of the scientific literature, it is not considered to be toxic for bees and has a Hazard Quotient (HQ) lower than 50. 3.9. Residue definition An active substance shall only be approved if ▐a residue definition can be established and analytical methods in general use are capable of detecting them for the purposes of risk assessment and for enforcement purposes. 3.10. Food-chain effects An active substance shall only be approved if its impact on the food chain of higher organisms is considered to be acceptable on the basis of a scientifically approved risk assessment methodology and, if approved, the assessed impact on the ecosystem is reduced through a system of mitigation and compensation. 3.11. Water policy Substances on the list of priority hazardous substances for water policy annexed to Directive 2000/60/EC should not be approved. 4. Criteria for approval as a candidate for substitution An active substance shall be defined as a candidate