entity established in a third country which has concluded a scientific and technological cooperation agreement with the Community may take part in RTD activities other than those covered by paragraph 1, over and above the minimum number of participants fixed in accordance with the terms of Article 5 , in accordance with the conditions stipulated in that agreement. It may receive a Community financial contribution if provision is made for this under an RTD activity or if it is essential for carrying out the indirect action. 3. Any legal entity established in a third country other than those covered by paragraph 2 may take part in RTD activities other than those covered by paragraph 1, over and above the minimum number of participants fixed in accordance with the terms of Article 5 , if such participation is provided for under an RTD activity or if it is essential for carrying out the indirect action. It may receive a Community financial contribution if provision is made for this under an RTD activity or if it is essential for carrying out the indirect action. Article 7 Participation by international organisations Any international organisation other than international European interest organisations may take part in RTD activities referred to in Article 6(1) , subject to the conditions set out in the first and third subparagraphs thereof , and in other RTD activities subject to the conditions set out in Article 6 (2) and (3). Article 8 Conditions relating to technical competence and resources 1. Participants shall have the knowledge and technical competence needed to carry out the indirect action. 2. At the time when they present their proposal, participants shall have at least the potential resources needed to carry out the indirect action, and shall be able to specify the relevant source of those funds made available by third parties, including public authorities . As work progresses, participants shall have the resources as and when needed to carry out the indirect action. The resources needed to carry out the indirect action are understood to be human resources, infrastructure, financial resources and, if necessary, intangible property and other resources made available by a third party on the basis of a prior commitment. Article 9 Submission of proposals for indirect actions 1. Proposals for indirect actions shall be submitted under the terms of calls for proposals. These terms shall be set out in the work programmes. Calls for proposals may involve a two-stage evaluation procedure. In this case, following a positive evaluation of an outline proposal in the first stage, the proposers concerned shall be requested to submit a complete proposal in the second stage. 2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to: a) specific support actions for the activities of legal entities identified in the work programmes; b) specific support actions consisting of a purchase or service governed by the terms applicable to public procurement procedures; c) specific support actions with particular characteristics and value to the objectives and the scientific and technological content of specific programmes, for which grant applications may be submitted to the Commission if