of a citizens' initiative may be retained. In their capacity as data controllers, organisers need to take all the appropriate measures to comply with the obligations imposed by Directive 95/46/EC, in particular those relating to the lawfulness of the processing, the security of the processing activities and the provision of information and the rights of data subjects to have access to their personal data as well as to procure the correction and erasure of their personal data. Justification Amendment aimed to give reason for the enacting term. Linguistic changes in order to use gender neutral language. Amendment 21 Proposal for a regulation Recital 21 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (21) The Commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the purpose of amending the Annexes to this Regulation . (21) With a view to the possible need in the future to amend or supplement certain non-essential elements in the provisions of this Regulation or its annexes, the Commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Justification Amendment that reflects the change in the enacting terms and justifies the use of delegated acts. Amendment 22 Proposal for a regulation Recital 23 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (23) The Commission should report on the implementation of this Regulation five years after its entry into force. deleted Justification It is superfluous to simply repeat a part of the enacting terms in a recital. Amendment 23 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. "Citizens’ initiative" means an initiative, submitted to the Commission in accordance with the present Regulation, inviting the Commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Treaties, which has received the support of at least one million eligible signatories coming from at least one third of all Member States; 1. "Citizens’ initiative" means an initiative, submitted to the Commission in accordance with the present Regulation, inviting the Commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Treaties, which has received the support of at least one million eligible signatories coming from at least one fifth of all Member States; Justification In order to facilitate the launching of an initiative, to allow for a simpler and less cumbersome procedure, it is appropriate to set a lower threshold. Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 2 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. " Organiser " means a natural or legal person or organisation responsible for the preparation and submission of a citizens’ initiative to the Commission. 3. " Organisers " means natural persons forming a citizens' committee responsible for the preparation and submission