Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (25 January 2011) The Commission shares the view that the Chinese currency remains undervalued in effective terms. In line with the Summit Declaration adopted by G20 leaders in Seoul on 12 November 2010, we continue to support policies which ‘ensure the ongoing recovery and enhance the stability of financial markets, in particular moving toward more market-determined exchange rate systems, enhancing exchange rate flexibility to reflect underlying economic fundamentals, and refraining from competitive devaluation of currencies.’ In line with the underlying reasoning, the Commission has welcomed the announcement made by China's Central Bank on 19 June 2010 to re-establish the flexibility of the Renminbi (RMB) exchange rate system. At the same time, the Commission has repeatedly emphasised — and continue to do so — the importance of the implementation of this announcement. As regards the question on what measures has the Commission taken or does it plan to take to defend the EU’s industrial sector, the Commission would like to refer the Honourable Member to the communication COM(2010)614 on ‘An integrated industrial policy for the globalisation era — Putting competitiveness and sustainability at centre stage’ adopted on 28 October 2010 http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/policies/industrial-competitiveness/industrial-policy/files/communication_on_industrial_policy_en.pdf . This communication establishes a work programme containing more than 70 measures and recommendations aiming at creating the best environment to maintain and develop a strong, competitive and diversified industrial base in Europe, as well as supporting the transition of manufacturing sectors to greater energy and resource efficiency. EU internal market legislation aims at a high level of protection of health, safety, the environment and consumers. Consistent with the EU's obligations under the WTO Agreements, EU product-related legislation applies in the same way to European and imported products. Responsibility for ensuring that products placed on the EU market, regardless of their country of origin, comply with all relevant requirements and have undergone appropriate conformity assessment lies first and foremost with economic operators, i.e. manufacturers and importers. Under EC law, Member States are solely responsible for market surveillance and the enforcement. The Commission monitors the implementation of relevant legislation, facilitates cooperation between Member States and actively engages with international partners in this area. Market surveillance in the EU has been further enhanced following the entry into force on 1 January 2010 of European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 setting out the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 OJ L 218, 13.8.2008 . . Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 sets out a common framework for market surveillance in the EU and imposes clear obligations on Member States regarding controls including those at the EU external borders on, inter alia , safety aspects of products coming from third countries. As regards specifically product safety aspects, effective cooperation between the EU and China has been in place for several years and contributes to improving Chinese manufacturers' compliance with applicable EU requirements. For example, in the framework of the memorandum of understanding between the Directorate-General for Health and Consumers and the Chinese General Administration