Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (6 December 2007) The Commission recalls that it organised the European Year for Workers' Mobility in 2006 with a view to: — raising the awareness of all relevant stakeholders to the rights of workers, the opportunities offered to them and the instruments available to them; — developing the exchange of good practice on mobility and encouraging cooperation between stakeholders; — and increasing the knowledge on mobility flows in Europe and on the obstacles to workers' mobility. The European Year showed that, although overall mobility figures were low, European citizens had an increasingly positive attitude toward mobility and that mobility patterns had changed over the last 20 years. Current patterns indicate that mobility is undertaken, to a large extent, by young people and high-skilled workers and for shorter periods of time. The European Year also revealed that it was essential to tackle obstacles beyond the administrative and legal sphere, which have been the focus of recent initiatives, to cover practical obstacles such as housing, language, employment of spouses and absence of return mechanisms. The Commission has also developed instruments to support mobility of workers. The European Job Mobility Portal, EURES http://ec.europa.eu/eures/home.jsp?lang=en , publishes the job vacancies of 30 national employment public services. Furthermore, the EURES network, which gathers some 750 specialised advisers, provides assistance to mobile workers and their families. The role of EURES has recently been expanded to cover identification of labour shortages and bottlenecks and to help tackle them through transnational mobility. The Commission intends to present shortly a Job Mobility Action Plan which will draw the lessons from the European Year of Workers' Mobility and identify new areas of action to further promote workers' mobility across the European Union. The Commission recalls that, according to Community law Article 39 TEC and Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 of the Council of 15 October 1968 on freedom of movement for workers within the Community, OJ L 257, 19.10.1968 . , migrant workers cannot be discriminated against directly or indirectly on the basis of nationality vis-à-vis the nationals of the host Member State and that the principle of equal treatment applies to all working conditions, including remuneration, dismissal, social and tax advantages and access to training. An EU citizen, who believes that his or her rights under Community law have been infringed, may use the means of redress available at national level, including courts. Finally, the Commission draws the attention of the Honourable Member to the fact that, according to the transitional arrangements on freedom of movement, Romanian citizens may be required to obtain a work permit before taking up employment in one of the EU-25 Member States. This, however, does not affect their right to equal treatment once they are legally employed in the host Member State.