a minimum; Certifying bodies 16. Notes that, according to Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1663/95 OJ L 158, 8.7.1995, p. 6. , certifying bodies are only required to certify whether the paying agencies' management and information systems are capable of ensuring that payments are properly made; notes that the certificate is based on an examination of procedures and a sample of transactions; notes also that the certificate covers compliance of payments with Community rules as regards the capability of the paying agencies' administrative structure to ensure that the compliance is checked before payment is effected; 17. Is concerned by the Court of Auditors' conclusion that the certifying bodies' certificates do not provide assurance that the facts declared by beneficiaries in claims for payment reflect reality Annual Report 2001, point 2.54. , since this is the level at which errors are most likely to occur; asks the Commission to clarify in detail if and how this gap is being filled by other elements of the clearance of accounts procedure, or to ensure that the certifying bodies" certificates do provide this assurance; Application of financial corrections 18. Notes that since 1990 the Commission applies flat-rate corrections of 2 %, 5 % or 10 % of the declared expenditure in cases where the exact damage to the budget cannot be established and that a flat rate of 25 % was introduced in 1997 on a proposal from the European Parliament; 19. Notes that some 90% Annual Report 2001, point 2.65. of all corrections by value are flat-rate corrections and not exact corrections; asks the Commission to propose measures in order to reduce its reliance on flat-rate corrections by the end of 2004; 20. Asks the Commission to publish an overview of the application of the different flat rates in each Financial Report on the EAGGF; 21. Considers that the preventive and corrective nature of the clearance of accounts system should be complemented with a dissuasive element in order to effectively protect the Union's financial interests and expects the Commission to bring forward a proposal, before the end of 2002, for a legal base enabling the Commission to apply increasing financial corrections or other sanctions to Member States for repeated weaknesses in control systems; Recovery 22. Is very concerned that outstanding debts amount to EUR 2.245 billion; awaits, in the light of Action 96 of the Commission reform, the Commission communication, due for end 2002, on a comprehensive strategy to address the problem of recovery; expects the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to be consulted on this strategy; instructs its Committee on Budgetary Control to follow this matter with the utmost attention; Enlargement 23. Notes that at the end of 2002 the Commission will have conferred financial management tasks on Sapard agencies in 10 candidate countries, and thereby given these countries full responsibility for managing projects from selection to final payments; is concerned by the Court's finding that, as concerns conferral of management, in some cases "there was insufficient evidence to provide reasonable assurance that all requirements ensuring that EU funds will be used properly were