WRITTEN QUESTION E-1020/10 by Frieda Brepoels (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (26 February 2010) Subject: Electrabel Following my Written Question E‑5464/09 to the Commission on the adverse impact on consumers and firms in Belgium of GDF Suez/Electrabel’s dominant market position, I should like to put the following supplementary questions to the Commission: 1. In its answer the Commission acknowledges that it ‘is concerned that the GDF Suez overall portfolio of long‑term exclusive or quasi‑exclusive contracts could cause significant foreclosure effects on the Belgian electricity markets by making it more difficult for other players to compete for customers. Various requests for information were sent to the group but the Commission has not yet reached a definite view on the matter.’ Has the Commission reached a view on the matter in the interim? If so, what is that view? If not, why not? When can a definite view be expected? 2. In its answer the Commission ‘also notes the recent decision of the Belgian national competition authorities to launch unannounced inspections in the offices of the two major electricity suppliers. To date the Commission has not yet been informed of the results of these investigations.’ Has the Commission been informed of the results of these investigations in the interim? If so, how does the Commission evaluate those results? If not, why not? When can the results be expected? 3. According to a recent study by the Belgian energy regulator CREG, low‑consumption households in particular are benefiting least from energy‑market liberalisation: at the end of 2009 they were paying as much as 40 % more for their electricity than in 2003. An average‑consumption household with Electrabel was paying an average of 20 % more at the end of 2009 than in 2003, whereas for customers of a competitor such as Luminus the increase was limited to 7 %. — Is the Commission aware of this study by CREG? — How does the Commission evaluate this study? — Is the Commission prepared to take additional steps to ensure that energy‑market liberalisation benefits all consumers? If so, what steps is it prepared to take, and when? If not, why not?