clarified. The UfM’s secretariat needs to become the structure ’ s linchpin . Its effectiveness will depend on the ability of its staff to work independently. It must be emphasised that the presence of a senior Israeli official and a senior Palestinian official cooperating within an international organisation at regional level is unprecedented and gives grounds for hope. Lastly, it is essential to ensure smooth cooperation between the secretariat and the European Commission, and to define their respective remits clearly. While the European Parliament’s powers as part of the EU’s budgetary procedure must be highlighted, in the context of the new institutional balance it is crucial for the EMPA to take on more significant responsibilities by being involved in consultation and democratic supervision in respect of project budget implementation. Regular hearings of the Secretary General and the Deputy Secretaries General by the various relevant EMPA committees would enable projects and activities to be monitored on a regular basis. However, this higher level of responsibility must go hand in hand with improvements in the operation and working methods of the EMPA, including granting the necessary human and financial resources . It is also essential to involve local and regional authorities. Mediterranean regions play a key role in facilitating the development of new spatial planning policies and the implementation of practical projects. The recent establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean Regional and Local Assembly (ARLEM) is an excellent initiative. Lastly, the UfM must not forget to do its utmost to involve civil society, the social partners and the numerous professional and socio-professional networks developed as part of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership in its activities and projects. The establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean economic and social council and a Mediterranean business leaders ’ forum must therefore be encouraged. b. Proje c ts The Paris Summit identified six main horizontal strategic sectors that tie in with a number of major challenges facing the region: cleaning up the sea, transport, renewable energies, education, small and medium-sized enterprises and civil protection. It will be up to the secretariat to select, propose and approve ‘UfM projects’. A number of projects are already under way as part of the EuroMed partnership. For pragmatic reasons, therefore, it is important to work on a complementary basis and to achieve the right degree of coordination and political mobilisation between the European and Euro-Mediterranean levels. As well as the six major projects identified, new projects should also be put on the agenda in the very near future by the secretary general and sector-specific ministerial meetings. The European Parliament proposes, inter alia, that the projects to be set up under the auspices of the UfM include a Euro-Mediterranean junior Erasmus programme called ‘Averroës’, making it possible to step up exchanges between secondary school pupils in UfM member countries, and the addition of a cultural component . Cooperation in the food and agriculture sector, which is of strategic importance, should now be one of the UfM’s priorities, with a view to moving towards greater convergence among Euro-Mediterranean agricultural policies. c. Increasing and guaranteeing funding The Barcelona Summit must put an