Parliament that ‘I have refrained from informing the Member of the intention to make him the subject of an investigation, because it is not possible at this stage to exclude the possibility that he has received additional income from similar sources of which the relevant tax authorities are as yet unaware, and notifying him of my intention to launch an investigation might enable him to suppress incriminating evidence and jeopardise the process of ascertaining the truth of the matter’ is more than exceptional, it is pernicious and designed to injure the Member by casting unfounded aspersions. Indeed this, in conjunction with the fact that the Public Prosecutor has not even quantified the precise amount of tax owed - also by way of non payment of interest -, makes the case for the existence of a fumus persecutionis even stronger . This is not the way in which a normal citizen would be treated in such circumstances. Mr Brok testified to the committee that his wife had been dealing with his tax returns for 40 years without any problem whatsoever. No public prosecutor could reasonably infer intention to evade tax from one isolated omission in such circumstances. The case is also exceptional in that the prosecutor’s spokesperson spoke to the media, in particular, to the local television station before Mr Brok had even had the opportunity of being heard in the competent committee of the European Parliament. The accidental omission to declare EUR 5 000 on the part of any other citizen would not have resulted in such action. Moreover, it amounts to an invasion of the member’s privacy. In Parliament, as is well known, requests for waiver of immunity are dealt with behind closed doors, yet the Public Prosecutor who made the request in this case actually granted an interview to the local television station. A further exceptional feature of this case is that Mr Brok’s lawyers have sought disclosure of the documents in the case, which is normal, but one page of the documents has been deliberately omitted. Mr Brok is a well-known political figure. Criminal charges have been brought against him in respect of a sum and in circumstances which would, in the case of an ordinary citizen, have attracted merely administrative proceedings. Moreover, the public prosecutor not only sought to withhold knowledge of the charge from Mr Brok on spurious and highly derogatory grounds for no due cause, but made sure that the case received great publicity in the media, this inflicting the maximum amount of damage on the Member concerned. It is therefore plain that the case is one of fumus persecutionis in that it appears that the proceedings were brought with the sole aim of damaging the reputation of the Member concerned. In these circumstances, it would be completely inappropriate to waive the Member’s immunity. CONCLUSION In the light of the foregoing considerations, and pursuant to Rule 7(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure, after having considered the arguments for and against waiving immunity, the Committee on Legal Affairs recommends that the European Parliament reject the