WRITTEN QUESTION E-5996/07 by Andreas Mölzer (NI) to the Commission (4 December 2007) Subject: Martyr status for economic refugees Muslim leaders have repeatedly stated that conquering Europe is the main aim of Islam. For example, the former Turkish Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan stated, ‘Our aim is to put down roots in the European continent, and to live quietly and in accordance with the laws, so that, one day, perhaps all of Europe will be Muslim’. Evidence that Islamic clerical lawyers are far from harmless is provided not only by preachers of hate, against whom the EU has finally, and far too late, decided to act. At a bishops’ conference in 1999, the Imam of Izmir stated, ‘Thanks to your democratic laws we will invade you; thanks to your religious laws, we will dominate you’. People harbouring anti-Western tendencies have gained a foothold even within the EU institutions themselves. The Turkish MEP Vural Öger, who represents the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD), is alleged to have said, ‘What Sultan Süleyman began with the siege of Vienna in 1683, we will complete with our citizens, our strong men and healthy women’. This ominous development, which has been evident for a long time, has now been brought more sharply into focus with the decision by the Al-Azhar University in Cairo (the most important theological educational establishment in the Islamic world) to accord the status of martyr to Muslim economic refugees who lose their lives trying to enter Europe illegally, and to define as a religious objective the infiltration of the Christian West by Muslim immigrants. 1. To what extent is an immediate halt to immigration from the Islamic world, including so-called reuniting of families, being discussed at EU level and in the Member States as a reaction to this perilous state of affairs? 2. Are there plans for an EU‑wide repatriation programme for illegal immigrants? 3. What measures will be taken at EU level to react to this development, and what efforts will be made to strengthen the native population of the EU? 4. Are there plans to follow Switzerland’s example and to expel economic refugees without papers within 48 hours?