Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (19 October 2010) In 2009 two major ‘confidential’ projects were financed in the Republic of Moldova, to the tune of EUR 42 million and EUR 37 million respectively. These projects were carried out within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP). 1. The projects referred to are the ‘Health sector Policy Support Programme’ (EUR 42 million) and the ‘Sector Policy Support Programme in the Water sector’ (EUR 37 million). These projects are funded respectively from the 2008 and 2009 ENPI European Neighbourhood and Partnership Policy. budget. Confidentiality is an exception to the general principle of transparency, which is one of the principles governing the implementation of the Union's budget. As any such exception, it is strictly defined in the Financial Regulation (FR) applicable to the Union's budget, and in particular its Article 30 which specifically refers to Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and Council on the protection of personal data OJ L 281, 23.11.1995 . . Furthermore, detailed provisions concerning publication are foreseen in the Financial Regulation for procurement (Part One, Title V, Chapter 1, Section 2) and grants (Article 110(2) FR and Article 169 of the implementing rules to the Financial Regulation which specifies that the obligation to publish the details relating to a grant ‘may be waived if publication of the information may threaten the safety of the beneficiary or harm their business interests’. These projects have erroneously been classified ‘confidential’ by the Commission. This has now been rectified and all data on contracts and beneficiaries from these projects will be published as usual. 2. The ‘health’ project is approximately at mid‑term in its implementation. Visible improvements have already taken place in the following areas: — Provision/delivery of healthcare services to the Moldovan population; — Funding of the healthcare system and mechanisms of payment for healthcare services; — Management stewardship of the Healthcare system; — Resource management of the Healthcare system. The ‘water and sanitation’ project is in its initial phase of implementation and will last about three years. It is therefore premature to measure its achievements. 3. As explained in the reply to point 1, classification of the projects above as confidential was erroneous. The usual rule of the Commission is to publish EU projects. Non publication is the exception. 4. There may be a risk of not protecting personal data of projects beneficiaries and implementers, or putting implementing staff at personal risk where projects are implemented in conflict areas. This kind of situation remains however exceptional. The vast majority of projects are in the public domain, and their publication allows for full transparency in the use of public funds, in addition to their control by the Counrt of Auditors. 5. The projects are monitored by Commission staff in the relevant EU Delegation and at Headquarters in Brussels. In addition, all projects of minimum EUR 1million are subject to an annual monitoring exercise carried out by an independent external monitor. Projects may also be subject to thorough ad hoc evaluation by independent external evaluators. All project budgets