Answer given by Mr Figel on behalf of the Commission (20 June 2005) A Member State whose legislation applies a less favourable health insurance rate to students residing in that Member State and studying in another Member State than the rate applied to students residing and studying in this same State of origin may be in breach of Community law, unless there are objective considerations which would justify such differential treatment. In its case-law on EU citizenship, education and the free movement of persons, the Court of Justice has already sanctioned situations which are not identical to this one but are nevertheless comparable in some ways Inter alia, Judgment of the Court of 11 July 2002 - Marie-Nathalie D'Hoop v Office national de l'emploi. Case C-224/98. European Court Reports 2002, page I-06191 . However, it should be added that on 29 April 2004, Council and Parliament adopted Regulation 883/2004 OJ L 200 of 7.6.2004 . on the coordination of social security systems which will eventually replace Regulation 1408/71. Different from the current Regulation, it introduces the general principle of assimilation of facts according to which the competent Member State, if its legislation attributes legal effects to certain facts or events, will have to consider like facts or events which occur in a different Member State as if they occurred in the competent Member State. Depending on the circumstances of the individual case, it may then open the possibility that a student who is affiliated to the German sickness insurance and who attends university in a different Member State may benefit from the students' tariffs because attending university in a different Member State would have to be considered the same as attending a German university. However, this Regulation 883/2004 will only enter into force when the accompanying implementing Regulation has been adopted by Council and Parliament. Currently, the Commission is preparing the relevant proposal which is expected to enter into force by the end of 2007.