stated in H4). Given that the solvency margin was always formally respected by ELAS, paragraph 3 of the article was never activated. For further information on this point, see the section on Article 25 on the Solvency margin and Part III on Regulatory Action. Divergences between the 3LD and implementing provisions: UK legislation confers to the Secretary of State the power, in line with the 3LD, to intervene in the case of assurance undertakings facing financial difficulties. However, contrary to the Directive, the Secretary of State may request the submission of a restoration plan or a short finance scheme. In addition, the Secretary of State may restrict the company’s freedom to dispose of its assets in more circumstances than those envisaged by the 3LD. Article 13 - Withdrawal of authorisation (Articles 26 of 1LD and 39 of CD) Summary of objectives This article harmonises the grounds for withdrawal of authorisation in respect of an assurance company by the competent authority of the home Member State. In addition, this provision places some obligations on the home Member State and on the host Member State in the event of withdrawal. It also deals with some procedural formalities that must be observed. Text of the article Article 13 Article 26 of Directive 79/267/EEC shall be replaced by the following: 'Article 26 1. Authorization granted to an assurance undertaking by the competent authority of its home Member State may be withdrawn by that authority if that undertaking: (a) does not make use of the authorization within 12 months, expressly renounces it or ceases to carry on business for more than six months, unless the Member State concerned has made provision for authorization to lapse in such cases; (b) no longer fulfils the conditions for admission; (c) has been unable, within the time allowed, to take the measures specified in the restoration plan or finance scheme referred to in Article 24; (d) fails seriously in its obligations under the regulations to which it is subject. In the event of the withdrawal or lapse of the authorization, the competent authority of the home Member State shall notify the competent authorities of the other Member States accordingly and they shall take appropriate measures to prevent the undertaking from commencing new operations within their territories, under either the freedom of establishment or the freedom to provide services. The home Member State's competent authority shall, in conjunction with those authorities, take all necessary measures to safeguard the interests of the assured persons and shall restrict, in particular, the free disposal of the assets of the undertaking in accordance with Article 24 (1), (2), second subparagraph, or (3), second subparagraph. 2. Any decision to withdraw an authorization shall be supported by precise reasons and notified to the undertaking in question. Comments on UK transposition Several grounds for withdrawing an authorisation already existed in UK legislation before the adoption of the 3LD (e.g. the undertaking does not make use of the authorisation within twelve months; the undertaking expressly renounces; failure to fulfil the conditions for admission). In cases where the undertaking ceases to