Answer given by High Representative/Vice‑President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (14 February 2011) The Commission is well aware of the developments surrounding the dismissal of Senator Piedad Cordoba. Regarding the Honourable Member’s concern about the legal certainty, the Commission notes that the Colombian Senate on 2 November 2010 approved the dismissal of Ms Cordoba, confirming the ruling of Inspector General Alejandro Ordoñez. It is also the Commission's understanding that Ms Cordoba intends to take legal steps to challenge the ruling, and that the Colombian Supreme Court is investigating Mr Ordoñez to determine whether the Inspector General overstepped his duties in dismissing Ms Cordoba. It is thus the Commission’s understanding that the case is being treated with all due process by the institutions of the Colombian state. The topic of the alleged illegal spying in recent years by the DAS on various individuals and organisations has been raised repeatedly by the Commission in its dialogue with the Colombian government, including with DAS Director Felipe Muñoz himself. It is the Commission’s understanding that the investigations of these allegations have been handed over to the relevant autonomous state entities responsible for such cases for a full investigation. The government insists that the DAS is cooperating with these investigations fully, notably by handing relevant files on illegal surveillance activities over to the Attorney General’s office, and that victims are being granted access to files relating to them. These investigations and proceedings are ongoing, and have already led to the arrest and/or dismissal of numerous DAS officials, and to the filing of criminal or disciplinary charges against some of them. The Commission is not engaged in any cooperation with the Colombian government on police matters. However, an agreement between Europol and the Colombian government on operational police cooperation was signed on 20 September 2010. The agreement concerns the exchange of information about criminal acts falling into the mandate of Europol (organised/serious crime and terrorism). The Commission considers cooperation of this type, which Europol carries out with many third countries around the world, an important contribution to safeguarding the security of the European Union.