for by the EP; whereas this blockade has not achieved its aim of undermining extremists but has, moreover, given rise to growing radicalisation, C. whereas according to the previous statements by the UN and the Statement of the UN Security Statement (S/9940) of 31 May 2010 the embargo on the Gaza Strip represents collective punishment in contravention of international humanitarian law, D. whereas 80% of the Gazan population is dependent on food aid, more than 60% are hit by food insecurity, unemployment is around 50% and sanitary and environmental conditions have seriously deteriorated, E. whereas only about 3,600 truckloads of food aid entered Gaza in the first three months of this year, as compared to 36,000 during the first three months of 2007 and whereas only 81 products are allowed into Gaza while UNRWA estimates at 6,000 the minimum number of products required to meet basic humanitarian needs, F. whereas the Palestinian Territories are the largest third-country recipient of EU funds and this support has played an important role in the attempt to assuage the humanitarian disaster in the Gaza Strip; whereas the EU continues to provide essential humanitarian assistance in the Gaza Strip, including through the United Nations Reliefs and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), G. whereas the two-state solution remains the basis for lasting peace between Israelis and Palestinians and therefore any step that undermines this perspective should be avoided; whereas ongoing proximity talks may lead to the resumption of direct peace negotiations with a view to establishing a Palestinian state living side by side in peace and security with the State of Israel, 1. Extends its condolences to the families of the victims namely, İbrahim Bilgen, Ali Haydar Bengi, Cevdet Kılıçlar), Çetin Topçuoğlu, Necdet Yıldırım, Furkan Doğan, Fahri Yaldız, Cengiz Songür and Cengiz Akyüz; 2. Condemns Israel's military operation against the humanitarian ship convoy; deeply regrets this breach of international law especially the fourth Geneva Convention, and condemns the use of disproportionate violence against civilians; 3. Supports the statement of the UN Secretary General and the High Commissioner for Human Rights calling for a prompt international and independent inquiry into this attack, and insists that the principles of accountability and liability be upheld; urges the HR/VP and EU Member States to take action to ensure that all appropriate steps are taken in order to make this demand effective and expresses the readiness of the EU to actively contribute in this respect; 4. Urges Israel to immediately, comprehensively and permanently end the siege on Gaza, most notably because it is unacceptable from a humanitarian standpoint; 5. Urges the HR/VP and EU Member States to take steps to ensure the sustainable opening of all the crossing points to and from Gaza, including the Gaza port, with adequate international end-use monitoring, to allow the unimpeded flow of humanitarian and commercial goods necessary for reconstruction and a self-supporting economy, as well as currency flows and unhindered movement of people; 6. Calls on the HR/VP and the Member States to reappraise the mandate of the European Union Border Assistance