of business regulator The conduct of business regulator at the relevant time was the Personal Investment Authority, the relevant functions of which were contracted out to the FSA. has limited statutory immunity. Thus, claims against it are precluded by the FSA 1986 unless the act or omission is shown to have been done in bad faith (see ES 3 Page 92. ). ES 3 Page 18. concludes that " an aggrieved policyholder would face a Herculean task as he would have to prove, at the very least, knowledge of illegality and of probability of injury on the part of the regulator ". The authors of WE 71 point out that " we do not consider there to be anything ... to support a claim of bad faith. " Hence, on the basis of UK law, there does not appear to be any realistic prospect for aggrieved policyholders to be successful in making the regulatory authorities liable for their losses. Unsurprisingly, the evidence obtained suggests that no case has been brought against the regulator so far. According to ES 3 Page 105. , there are good reasons why regulatory liability should be recognised only in exceptional circumstances: " The regulation of the financial services industry is a highly complex matter ... and the regulator is called upon to pursue and balance a number of divergent and sometimes contradictory objectives, including investor protection, market stability and market efficiency. It must therefore enjoy wide discretion in the exercise of its functions so as to be able to prioritize competing objectives as the public interest requires. Its discretion should not be fettered by the fear that, in case a policy choice proves wrong or unlawful, it may be liable in damages. ... Furthermore, where an action in damages is successful, it is ultimately the taxpayer who is called upon to cover the costs. " For these reasons, supervisory liability is restricted in all EU Member States, albeit to varying degrees. In normative terms, the exceptional character is expressed through requirements such as 'bad faith' (e.g. Ireland, UK) or 'gross negligence' (France). The authors of ES 3, however, believe that despite the points made above, complete regulatory immunity of financial services regulators would not be desirable. In this context ES 3 states that " the concept of gross negligence or manifest and grave disregard of discretionary powers provides a better criterion than the concept of bad faith [which applies under UK law] because it is not reliant on the motives of the regulator and is more susceptible to objective determination " (ES 3 Page 106. ). He also notes that " a distinction may ... be drawn between regulatory functions and supervisory functions; it would appear easier to hold a regulator liable for decisions made at the operational level of supervision rather than for decisions involving regulatory policy choices. " VIII. The UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme and the decision not to close ELAS The UK has a statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms, set up by the Financial Services and