Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (4 June 2007) The Commission has not undertaken any recent comprehensive research work to analyse the overall policies of Member States concerning subsidies for the housing sector. However, there are some studies at European level covering specific subsidy schemes for energy efficiency. As far as energy efficiency is concerned, one reference is ‘Towards energy efficiency in Europe’, EuroACE (The European Alliance of Companies for Energy Efficiency in Buildings), 2004. Another reference is the European research project POPA-CTDA (‘Policy pathways to promote the development and adoption of cleaner technologies’), Deliverable WP3, Göteborg University, 2006. With respect to future studies, the Commission will look at the opportunity of assessing national subsidy policies depending on their strategic importance for the specific EU policy concerned. This type of analysis requires due consideration of the other national policies, such as taxation, fiscality and credit policies. Subsidies are usually politically easy to implement and well accepted by market actors. However, they should only be used when there is a clear market failure, where subsidies prove to be the appropriate instrument for meeting a well defined common interest objective, and when in line with the provisions of the EC Treaty they do not distort competition and intra-EU trade to an extent contrary to the Common interest. The decision to use incentives should follow a thorough analysis of potential negative and positive effects which should include social, economic and environmental impacts. Alternatives should be considered, cost effectiveness of options should be compared, and the risks of imperfect implementation and unintended consequences should be carefully taken into account. In general incentives should be clearly limited in scope and time. State assistance granted by the competent authorities is typically funding projects located within the Member State itself. The fact that state subsidies to housing construction are directed to one Member State may indeed affect trade between Member States. Under EC competition law, the affectation of intra-EU trade is one of the cumulative criteria for a measure to be considered state aid in the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty. The latter EC Treaty provision sets out a general prohibition of state aid in the common market. However, the EC Treaty also provides that, under certain conditions, state aid may be or shall be declared compatible with the Common market by the Commission. State aid measures in favour of housing may be compatible under Article 86(2) of the EC Treaty, if the measures are targeted to disadvantaged citizens or socially less advantaged groups (social housing) and if Member States have structured their intervention as a Service of General Economic Interest (SGEI). In this case the Commission decision of 28 November 2005 on the application of Article 86(2) of the EC Treaty to state aid in the form of public service compensation granted to certain undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest C(2005) 2673, OJ L 312, 11.2005. applies. To the extent that a state aid measures meets the conditions specified in this decision, Member States are allowed