result of the Council’s progressive assumption, in tandem with its traditional legislative role, of a governmental role in areas covered by the coordination process. This is reflected in the proliferation of preparatory groups and forums, such as the Employment Committee set up under Article 130 ECT, the Economic and Financial Committee set up under Article 114 ECT, the Economic Policy Committee set under Article 272 ECT and the Social Protection Committee set up by the Council Decision of 19 June 2000. The Commission, generally with the assistance of such committees, plays a crucial role as driving force and catalyst in the open method of coordination, by submitting broad guidelines and sectoral guidelines, organising the exchange of best practice, proposing indicators and managing arrangements for monitoring and peer review. The European Parliament, on the other hand, as its resolutions have stressed on more than one occasion, is involved only to a limited extent, and on an irregular basis, in the new systems for the coordination of national policies. It is only with regard to the employment strategy that the Treaty requires the Council to formally consult the European Parliament on the proposed guidelines submitted annually by the Commission, which may result in the Commission amending its proposed employment policy guidelines. In practice, however, in view of the time constraints inherent in a European strategy based on annual cycles, the consultation process is very rushed. The time limits imposed are too short to allow the traditional process whereby Parliament formulates an opinion to take its course. Finally, the policy coordination process calls for greater involvement of the national parliaments as the bodies responsible for scrutinising, and conferring democratic legitimacy on, the national policies adopted in the context of the OMCs. In keeping with the spirit of the Lisbon Council, the open method of coordination ought to make it possible to take full account of national and regional differences, with due regard to the need to find a flexible way of coordinating the activities conducted at different levels and their mutual interaction. In practice, however, the method is based on ascertaining the Member States’ national position: the role of the local bodies involved is not established in advance, as organisational arrangements are left to the national authorities. This can cause difficulties in connection with involvement of territorial authorities in the coordination process, particularly in highly decentralised countries. Nevertheless, some guidance on such issues is contained in the Commission’s communication on the assessment of the employment strategy which, inter alia , stresses the need for wider responsibilities to be conferred on the social partners and for their contribution to the implementation of the guidelines to be recognised. The Commission has also encouraged the European organisations representing the social partners to establish contacts with their national counterparts. Moreover, several Member States have taken the view that more effective involvement of organisations representing civil society is essential and should be encouraged. Another aspect stressed by the Commission is that of ‘vertical’ cooperation between national and regional authorities and ‘horizontal’ cooperation between representatives of the various territorial units at