seen from a user and preparer point of view. Another issue is funding. An organisation like the IASCF/IASB must have a transparent and stable funding system. Clearly funding systems can be designed in different ways; for instance, public sources could provide partial funding, or purely private funding could be used. The ECOFIN conclusions stressed the need to secure sustainable funding for the organisation. The funding from contributions hitherto dates back to the early stages of the organisation's current form, and was supposed to have been replaced by 2005 by a long-term system of funding. After it proved impossible to achieve that objective, contribution-based funding was extended for a further two years, and is supposed to continue only until 31 December 2007. The rapporteur is convinced that the IASCF/IASB is far from being transparent and balanced. The rapporteur is also convinced that democratic control within the organisation must be improved. 3. Implementation of IFRS in Europe Below the EU endorsement process is illustrated. The rapporteur points out that the endorsement procedure only applies to international accounting standards for publicly traded companies. It cannot be used to endorse IFRS for SMEs, since a new legal basis would be needed for this. Moreover, there are many bodies involved in the endorsement procedure. Especially the Commission receives input from a number of committees that to an extent seem to have overlapping competences. The rapporteur also stresses that the recent change to the comitology procedure means that the European Parliament will be even more engaged in the development and endorsement of international accounting standards and that, not least in order to save time, the European Parliament needs to be kept informed in a timely manner about how work is progressing. Given the number of topical accounting issues, 2007 and 2008 could be significant years for the cooperation between the IASCF/IASB, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. 4. IFRS for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) On 15 February 2007 the IASB published the draft financial reporting standard for small and medium-sized enterprises and invited all stakeholders to submit comments on this proposal by 1 October 2007. Given that the European Parliament is involved in implementing this standard in European law, it hereby forwards its initial comments. In preparation for the own-initiative report, the rapporteur submitted a working document to the competent Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 10 April 2007. This working document sparked a process of discussion that has greatly contributed to this report. The IASB set itself the aim of bringing together all existing IFRS standards for application in small and medium-sized undertakings and making them available in simplified form. The intention was to produce a stand-alone document containing all the rules that must be applied by SMEs in a relatively brief overview. The standards were to be presented in a clear and easily understandable way so that they would be easy to apply for small undertakings with relatively limited staff and financial resources for drawing up financial statements. Consistently reducing the comprehensive rules to the circumstances relevant to SMEs and simplifying the