vehicles designed and constructed for use principally on construction sites or in quarries, port or airport facilities; (a) vehicles designed and constructed for use principally on construction sites or in quarries, port or airport facilities; (b) vehicles designed and constructed for use by the armed services, civil defence, fire services and forces responsible for maintaining public order; (b) vehicles designed and constructed for use by the armed services, civil defence, fire services and forces responsible for maintaining public order; and (c) mobile machinery, (c) mobile machinery, to the extent that these vehicles are able to fulfil the requirements of this Directive. Such optional approvals are without prejudice to the application of Directive 2006/42/EC. Amendment 11 Article 3, point 30 30) “competent authority” in Article 42 means either the approval or designating authority or an accreditation body acting on their behalf; 30) “competent authority” in Article 42 means either the approval authority or a designated authority , or an accreditation body acting on their behalf respectively ; Justification This small correction clarifies which are the authorities in the Member States empowered to assess the skills of the technical services. Amendment 12 Article 9, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 a (new) The multi-stage type-approval shall apply also to complete vehicles converted or modified by another manufacturer. Justification As different opinions exist amongst the Member States on how to type-approve vehicles which are modified by another manufacturer before their first registration, the amendment is intended to clarify that converted or modified vehicles must be type-approved in accordance with the multi-stage procedure. As a consequence, not all tests have to be repeated on the converted or modified vehicles but only those which are affected by the modifications. Amendment 13 Article 20, paragraph 1 1. Member States may, on application by the manufacturer, grant an EC type-approval in respect of a type of system, component or separate technical unit that incorporates technologies or concepts which are incompatible with one or more regulatory acts listed in Part I of Annex IV, subject to authorisation being granted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2). 1. Member States may, on application by the manufacturer, grant an EC type-approval in respect of a type of system, component or separate technical unit that incorporates technologies or concepts which are incompatible with one or more regulatory acts listed in Part I of Annex IV, subject to authorisation being granted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2a). Justification The regulatory procedure laid down in Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC should be followed for the adoption of individual decisions by the Commission (as opposed to measures of general scope, for which the regulatory procedure with scrutiny laid down in Article 5a of that Decision is foreseen). Amendment 14 Article 20, paragraph 4, subparagraph 1 The Commission shall decide, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), whether or not to allow the Member State to grant an EC type-approval in respect of that type of vehicle. The Commission shall decide,