however take into consideration the need to be flexible in setting these deadlines, since various industries and sectors may need to be treated differently; h) safeguard clauses be added to the agenda while clarification and harmonisation of the safeguard provisions be the object of such negotiation; i) Invites the Commission to apply trade defence instruments under consideration of WTO-rules in such a way that situations do not occur in which EU-industry is put at a competitive disadvantage; 14. Supports the Commission’s view that following the mandate given by the Declaration of the 4 th Ministerial Conference (para 30.) the understanding of Rules and Procedures governing the settlement of disputes within WTO should be improved on a number of issues, inter alia: a) moving from ad hoc to a fixed but renewable term panellists; b) trade compensation be preferred to trade-restricting suspension or other obligations, allowing also for an independent decision by a WTO arbitrator; c) the submission of amicus curiae briefs on specific cases be encouraged provided that they are factual and relevant to the legal issues under consideration and do not lead to delays or to additional cost; d) technical issues such as purpose of consultation intended or not establishing of a panel, making early settlements more attractive, the status of the members of the Appellate Body and the time for the completion of an arbitration on suspension of concessions; 15. Urges Member States to pursue solidarity on trade issues that are better addressed at the EU-level, and not to take unilateral action without prior consultation with their partners, as was evident in the US steel case; 16. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission. Explanatory statement The Nineteenth annual report from the Commission on the Community’s anti-dumping and anti-subsidy activities gives the European Parliament an opportunity to express its views on the future of these trade policies, taking into account three factors, namely, the WTO negotiations following the undertakings given at the Fourth Ministerial Conference, the problems of transparency and, lastly, the importance of this instrument in an economy in the throes of globalisation. At present, there are three criteria that should be met before the European Community can take measures against any instances of dumping or subsidies by a third country: 1. dumping and/or subsidies take place beyond doubt; 2. dumping and/or subsidies cause or threaten to cause injury; 3. It is in the interests of the EU to take action against the dumped and/or subsidised imports. 1. The WTO agenda The European Commission is expected to submit proposals and thus to conform to the WTO Declaration Rules, para 28, and aiming ‘at clarifying and improving disciplines under the Agreements on Implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 …, while preserving the basic concepts, principles and effectiveness of these Agreements and their instruments and objectives, and taking into account the needs of developing and least-developed participants’. A new Group on Rules, to be chaired by the New Zealand Ambassador to the WTO, has been created. The deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations