Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (23 April 2009) The Commission is aware that energy companies have reaped windfall profits, due partly to the fact that allowances under the EU Emissions Trading System (‘ETS’) were given out free of charge to power companies in the first and second trading periods of the ETS (2005 to 2007 and 2008 to 2012 respectively). There are a number of studies that try to quantify the extent of these profits. A 2008 study identified that profits ranging from EUR 23 billion to EUR 71 billion would be made in five Member States (Germany, United Kingdom, Spain, Italy, Poland) during the second ETS period with allowance prices from EUR 21 to 32/t CO 2 . A more detailed study covering nine EU Member States, which has been prepared on behalf of the Commission http://www.ecn.nl/publications/default.aspx?nr=ECN-E--08-007 , contains a theoretical and empirical analysis and provides a more detailed estimate at this stage overview. In competitive markets, where prices reflect the cost of producing electricity, consumers should pay for the costs of carbon emissions, power companies are able to pass on the emissions costs to their customers, either in whole or in part, in the same way that they pass on the other costs of producing electricity. When power companies are given emissions allowances free of charge, it is economically rational for electricity producers to include the opportunity costs of these allowances in their electricity prices. In some Member States national authorities are considering measures which will allow them to recover the windfall profits that power companies have made at the expense of consumers, for example through special taxes. In December 2008, the Council and the European Parliament agreed on a Commission proposal to amend the current EU Emissions Trading System. One of the major consequences of this is that full auctioning of emissions allowances will be applied in the energy sector from 2013, save in a limited number of cases where Member States are granted temporary and partial derogations upon the fulfilment of a number of strict conditions. The new regulatory framework is not expected to increase costs for consumers, who already pay for the costs of carbon, but aims to prevent windfall profits for energy companies and to generate revenues which can be used for climate related purposes.