of allegations put forward by Irish policyholders claiming that they were falsely informed by Equitable Life that they bought or would be buying into a separate Irish fund which would be ring-fenced, and thus not affected by liabilities arising within the UK fund " (H8). In response, he told the committee the following (H8): " The printed material I have seen is quite clear that there was an ambition that at some future date the Irish fund or the German fund might be independent. However, clearly, they were not independent funds. They did not have their own start-up capital; that was provided by the main with-profits fund. The degree to which they were separate was in terms of having assets in those countries in that currency and that meant that the investment performance diverged. It is not uncommon in a UK with-profits fund to have quite separate bonus series for different contract types, and they will then get different investment performance fed through to that individual bonus series. However, if there are problems that beset the entire fund, then it will affect all of those components. That was the position of the Irish policyholders in terms of the physical literature that I have seen. That is not to say that individual comments were not made that implied something different, but that was the official position ". Mr THOMSON promised, however " to do what I can to find ...out " (H8) why Irish salesmen appear to have been given misleading information and passed it on to prospective policyholders. Later he confirmed in WE-CONF 21 that " I am not aware of anything in the product literature which states that Irish investments would somehow be kept separate from the rest of the with profits fund ". The Irish regulator notes that " since the commencement of our investigation into the Equitable Life matter at the request of the then Tánaiste, no evidence has been presented to support the allegations that Equitable Life were representing that an Irish ‘ring-fenced’ fund existed " (WE 80). Mr SCHÄFER, a German policyholder claims in WE 10 that policyholders without guaranteed interest rates (GIRs) would be disadvantaged compared to those with GIRs. GIR policies were sold by ELAS up until 1996. He believes that the existence of policies with GIRs has had an adverse impact on the performance of non-GIR policies. He thus considers that non-GIR policyholders have " cross-subsidised GIR policyholders ". Mr SCHÄFER compares the problem with that of GAR-liabilities and believes that non-GIR policyholders have a strong case for mis-selling. In this respect, he referred in particular to a study carried out by the UK Pensions Institute (WE 29), which appears to corroborate his views. The committee asked Mr THOMSON whether the allegations were true but only received an evasive answer (H8 " I was asked if the existence of policies with guaranteed interest rates – GIRs – sold by Equitable Life until 1996 had an impact on the performance of policies without such guaranteed rates; also whether non-GIR policyholders were informed of the possible