Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (11 June 2008) The European Social Fund (ESF) is the main Community fund investing in people. Over the period 2007‑13, some EUR 76 billion will be distributed to the Member States and regions to reduce national and regional differences in prosperity and living standards. The ESF does not follow a sectoral approach, so it is not possible to say what percentage of those funds will go specifically on activities affecting tourism. The rate and type of support depend on the priorities identified by the Member States at national, regional and local level. There is sufficient flexibility to enable the funds to be matched to specific local and regional labour market problems. The Member States have allocated around EUR 6.2 billion under the European Regional Development Fund to expenditure on ‘tourism’, involving the promotion of natural assets, the protection and development of the natural heritage, and other assistance to improve tourist services. An additional EUR 5.8 billion will be spent on ‘culture’, involving the protection and preservation of the cultural heritage, the development of cultural infrastructure, and other assistance to improve cultural services. The Commission has not commissioned any comparative studies or tables illustrating the situation as regards tourism-related training in each Member State. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop), the European Union's reference centre for vocational education and training, and in particular its Skillsnet Team, has been active in skills forecasting in various sectors. In 2005, Cedefop published a report entitled Trends and skill needs in tourism (Cedefop Panorama series, 115), which can be found at http://www.trainingvillage.gr/etv/Information_resources/Bookshop/publication_details.asp?pub_id=413 The report highlights the latest trends and skill needs from an international perspective in the hotel, catering and tourism sector. The Commission has also published a handbook on ‘How to create a Tourism Learning Area’ which is a practical guide for the implementation of learning areas — a concept of multi-stakeholder, inter-sectoral, problem-solving approach aimed at improving small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) performance and human potential in the tourism sector at the destination level. This handbook can be found at http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/services/tourism/studies_and_publications.htm Moreover, the Commission’s Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has launched an exercise to anticipate emerging competences and future skills needs for a number of sectors including tourism (hotels, restaurants, catering). The project ‘Comprehensive sectoral analysis of emerging competences and economic activities in the European Union’ is part of the Community Lisbon Programme and the ‘New Skills for New Jobs’-initiative endorsed by the European Council. It is based on 16 sector studies, discussion in expert panels and coordination to feed the results into education systems. The main objective consists in devising a mechanism for anticipating at European level skills needs (broadly defined) on the basis of these sectoral studies and meetings with experts. However, the Commission has no competence for setting measurable targets for specific training sectors, but leaves it to the Member States to do so if they wish.