which, further to the steps taken pursuant Articles 24 and 25, the information obtained in accordance with this Regulation establishes that they are engaged in IUU fishing activities and whose flag states have taken no effective action in response to those activities. 1. The Commission shall establish the European Community IUU vessel list. This List shall include the vessels in relation to which, further to the steps taken pursuant Articles 24 and 25, the information obtained in accordance with this Regulation establishes that they are engaged in IUU fishing activities in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 3 and whose flag states have taken no effective action in response to those activities. Amendment 47 Proposal for a regulation Article 26 – paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. The Commission shall notify the flag state of a vessel's inclusion in the Community IUU vessel list and shall inform it in detail of the reasons for that vessel's inclusion in the list. Amendment 48 Proposal for a regulation Article 26 – paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. Where one of an owner's vessels has been included on the Community list of IUU vessels, a detailed inspection shall be carried out of all that owner's vessels. Amendment 49 Proposal for a regulation Article 28 – paragraph 1 – point h (h) date of first inclusion on the IUU Vessel List; (h) date of first inclusion on the Community IUU Vessel List and, if applicable, date of first inclusion on the IUU vessel list of one or more RFMOs ; Amendment 50 Proposal for a regulation Article 28 - paragraph 1 - point i a (new) (ia) the technical specifications of the vessel concerned . Amendment 51 Proposal for a regulation Article 28 – paragraph 2 2. The Commission shall take any measure necessary to ensure publicity of the European Community IUU vessels list, including by placing it on the DG Fisheries website. 2. The Commission shall publish the Community IUU vessels list in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall take any measure necessary to ensure publicity of the Community IUU vessels list, including by placing it on the DG Fisheries website. Amendment 52 Proposal for a regulation Article 30 – paragraph 1 1. The Commission, in accordance with the procedure established in Article 52, shall identify the third states that it considers as non-cooperating states in fighting IUU fishing activities. 1. The Commission, in accordance with the procedure established in Article 52, shall identify the third states that it considers as non-cooperating states in fighting IUU fishing activities , on the basis of clear, transparent and objective criteria . Amendment 53 Proposal for a regulation Article 30 – paragraph 6 – point b a (new) (ba) whether the State concerned has ever been the subject of trade restrictive measures in respect of fishery products adopted by an RFMO; Amendment 54 Proposal for a regulation Article 30 – paragraph 7 7. Where appropriate, specific constraints of developing countries, in particular in respect to monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities, shall be duly