5 February 2004 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Karin Riis-Jørgensen and Christopher Huhne on behalf of the ELDR Group on corporate governance and supervision of financial services – the Parmalat case European Parliament resolution on corporate governance and supervision of financial services – the Parmalat case The European Parliament , – having regard to the statement on corporate governance and supervision of financial services (the Parmalat case) made by the European Commission in plenary on 11 February 2004, – having regard to the Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament entitled ‘Modernising Company Law and Enhancing Corporate Governance in the European Union - A Plan to Move Forward’ ( COM (2003) 284 ), – having regard to Rule 37(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the Parmalat group was declared insolvent on December 26 2003 and is now under extraordinary administration, B. whereas the CEO of Parmalat and several others has been arrested on suspicion of fraudulent and criminal actions, C. whereas good company law and good corporate governance practices, together with financial supervision, are essential to an efficient, competitive European business sector and effective investor protection, D. whereas the recent financial scandals in Europe and the United States underline the crucial role of auditing companies and of having high-quality audits carried out and implemented, E. whereas the final responsibility for financial scandals such as Parmalat and Enron rests with fraudulent individuals, and the most effective prevention is good corporate governance, which investors must insist on and companies enact, 1. Welcomes the Commission’s statement on corporate governance and supervision of financial services (the Parmalat case), and the intention of the Commission to use this opportunity to revise and prioritise the Communication on Company Law and Corporate Governance; 2. Insists that the Commission speed up work on the Eighth Company Law Directive on approval of persons responsible for carrying out statutory audits, and in this connection asks that the Commission prepare legislation to force companies to rotate their audit firm or switch the audit partner in charge of their accounts; requests that the Commission look into possible ways of enforcing the liability of auditors; 3. Dismisses the argument that this will risk damaging continuity and bring about more audit failures; rotation will, on the contrary, ensure peer-review of auditing and bring more focus to this important element of control; 4. Asks the Commission to reflect on the possible separation of auditing and non-auditing services provided by the same company; 5. Welcomes the setting up of an advisory group by the International Accounting Standards Board, which will provide a much-needed advisory forum that can take the legitimate concerns of European business, supervisors and the ECB into consideration in the discussions on International Accounting Standards; 6. Demands that the Commission speed up the work on legislation to provide for collective responsibility of board members for financial statements, and in general to enhance corporate governance disclosure requirements; 7. Calls on the Commission to speed up work on