arrows show that the reference modules can be left out temporarily although it would be advisable to develop them. Modules shaded in grey are those which the Member States and traders regard as priorities. For easier reading, not all transmission links have been shown. The following paragraphs summarise the subsystems in each Group. Group I: Pre-requisite functions (development period – two and half years from start-up of activities) This group includes all the functions needed to activate the system as a whole, i.e: – drawing up reference lists (lists of codes, lists of excise offices handling the system, structure of the excisable products, thesaurus of terms; – management and consultation of listed traders; – management of and consultation on guarantees; – management of and consultation on excise rates; – consultation of VAT data; – related reports. It should be pointed out that, where possible, some of the reference lists such as the list of codes and list of Member States" offices will be shared with the New Computerised Transit System (NCTS). Group II: Electronic AAD routing system (development period – four years commencing one year after start-up of activities) This group comprises the functions needed for managing the electronic AAD, i.e: – management of guarantee certificates; – submitting and registering the AAD; – updating and splitting the AAD whilst a movement is under way; – acceptance or rejection of the AAD; – link to the customs arrangements for exporting goods; – claims for losses; – consultation and recovery of movement data; – automatic reminders; – related reports. Group III: Downstream functions (development period – two years commencing three years after start-up of activities) This group includes: – registration of reports on wayside checks; – risk evaluation; – management of warnings; – automatic reminders; – statistics; – movement verification and mutual assistance; – free text messages. Applications Apart from the application functions listed above, other aspects also have to be developed in order to be able to: – allocate user names; – change passwords; – check links; – consolidate statistics; – allow support personnel to consult data; – allow support personnel to make corrections and connect up equipment. 3. Tasks Work will be shared out between the Commission and the Member States as follows: – The Commission will coordinate all work done by the partners, as also the joint programme. It will check the overall systems specification and supervise the development of the common applications. It will provide an applications centre for the partners so that they can check operations and evaluate the various components. – Each Member State will set up a network of terminals, develop its own application and open it up to traders. Each party involved will do that part of the work on the common programme that relates to itself. 3.1 The Commission In view of European Union policy, the system for the movement and surveillance of excisable products should be computerised in three stages, as in the classic V-shaped development approach. The main components identified as being the Commission's responsibility are: A central project office, which will also