or potential customer relationship. The complainant is not required to live or be based in the United Kingdom. The FOS’s compulsory jurisdiction extends to any authorised firm against which a complaint is made where the complaint relates to an activity regulated under the FSMA and is subject to the compulsory jurisdiction rules. Essentially, subject to limited exceptions, all authorised firms are subject to the compulsory jurisdiction of FOS. Such jurisdiction covers acts or omissions by an authorised firm carrying out a regulated activity, including acts of appointed representatives. Before resorting to the FOS, a consumer is required to complain in writing directly to the firm in question. If he is not satisfied by the firm’s response, he can bring the complaint before FOS. The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it more than six months after the date on which the firm sends its final response or more than six years after the event complained of or (if later) more than three years from the date on which he became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint. The Ombudsman can consider complaints outside those time limits when, in his view, the failure to comply with the time limits was as a result of exceptional circumstances or where the firm does not object to the consideration of the complaint (see ES 3 Page 37. ). The circumstances in which the Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without investigating it are laid down in DISP 3.3.1 Abbreviation for "Rules on Dispute Resolution" contained in the FSA Handbook. . Paragraph 18 gives the FOS broad discretion as he may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits, " if it is satisfied that there are compelling reasons why it is inappropriate for the complaint to be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service " (see ES 3 Page 38. ) If, for instance, a single complaint raises issues with wider implications, e.g. a large number of consumers are involved, action may be undertaken by the Financial Services Authority on a large scale (ES 3 Page 38. ). If the FOS considers that a complainant has a valid claim, it can order the firm in question to pay compensation. A determination by the FOS is final and binding on the firm, subject to a maximum enforceable award of £100.000 plus interest. The Ombudsman may recommend to a firm a payment of a higher sum that is not mandatory (WE 27, page 3). If the complainant is not satisfied with the FOS's decision, he/she remains free to take legal action subject to any statutory limitations on timing etc. If the decision is accepted by the complainant, it is binding. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) governs the relationship between the FOS and the FSA. This is dealt with in detail in WE 83 Pages 12-17. : Among other things, the MoU points out that " each is operationally independent and has distinct functions ", it summarises the respective responsibilities of the FSA and the FOS and provides a framework for