team spirit, tolerance and fair play, B. whereas overweight caused by a sedentary lifestyle and incorrect diet, giving rise in some cases to poor health and psycho-social problems and illnesses which are associated with expensive complications, such as high blood-pressure, diabetes, and cardiac and vascular diseases, is affecting an ever greater proportion of the EU's population, including around a quarter of the child population, C. whereas school physical education and sport are among the most important tools of social integration, but whereas for some minority and religious communities, and for children with disabilities, full participation in physical education is in many cases not guaranteed and raises numerous problems that are difficult to solve, D. whereas the number of physical education lessons has fallen in the past decade not only in primary but also in secondary schools, and whereas there are extremely wide divergences between the Member States as regards the provision of establishments and equipment, E. whereas physical education teacher training programmes differ widely among the Member States and there is an increasingly widespread practice whereby physical education is taught in school by teachers with inadequate specialist training, F. whereas there is no appropriate coordination aimed at reconciling school and out-of-school sporting activities, and at making better use of existing establishments, and whereas the link between them varies from one Member State to another, G. whereas parents have a crucial role to play within the network of partnerships in this area, and whereas parental support for children's sporting activities is of vital importance, since parents set an example for their children and it is they who enable children to have access to establishments and programmes, H. whereas the legal frameworks governing physical education and sport, and those governing EU funding for those activities, are both equally uncertain, I. bearing in mind the fact that public health and the protection of young people are priorities of the EU and for this reason special emphasis should be placed on combating doping in sport, J. bearing in mind that sport is one of the most effective measures for combating smoking, especially among young people, 1. Reaffirms the EU's legitimate interest in sport, in particular its social and cultural aspects, as well as the educational and social values that sport transmits such as self-discipline, challenging personal limitations, solidarity, healthy competition, respect for opponents, social inclusion, opposition to any form of discrimination, team spirit, tolerance, and fair play; 2. Stresses the significance of implementing the abovementioned Amsterdam and Nice declarations, especially the specific characteristics of sport in Europe and its social function account of which should be taken when implementing common policies; 3. Stresses that, in our multicultural society, sport can and should be an integral part of formal and informal education and that studies have shown that regular physical activity improves mental and physical wellbeing, while having beneficial effects on learning abilities; 4. Calls on the Member States and the competent authorities to ensure that greater stress is placed on health development in school and preschool teaching programmes by encouraging specific forms of physical activity suitable