Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (11 January 2007) Article 18 of the EC Treaty stipulates that every citizen of the Union shall have the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, subject to the limitations and conditions laid down in this Treaty and by the measures adopted to give it effect. The Community instrument applicable at the time when the expulsion decision against Mrs Alena Grey was adopted in December 2005 was Council Directive 64/221/EEC of 25 February 1964 on the coordination of special measures concerning the movement and residence of foreign nationals which are justified on grounds of public policy, public security or public health OJ L 56, 4.4.1964 . . The directive provided for the right of Member States to restrict the right of Union citizens and their family members to move and reside freely within the European Union on grounds of public policy, public security or public health. The directive, as interpreted by the European Court of Justice, laid down a number of material and procedural safeguards for the exercise of this entitlement. The host Member State was entitled to take measures on grounds of public policy or public security and to expel an individual only when his personal conduct represented a genuine, present and sufficiently serious threat affecting one of the fundamental interests of society. The measure had to be proportionate to the threat represented by him. All measures concerning expulsion had to be given in writing, be motivated and subject to the legal remedies as are available to nationals of the Member State concerned in respect of acts of the administration. Legal remedies may include suspension of the expulsion measure but Article 8 of Council Directive 64/221/EEC cannot be interpreted as obliging Member States to grant suspensory effect to legal remedies. However, Article 9(1) of the directive provides that where the appeal cannot have suspensory effect, as would appear to be the case, a decision ordering expulsion shall not be taken by the administrative authority, save in cases of urgency, until an opinion has been obtained from a competent authority of the host Member State before which the persons concerned enjoy rights of defence and of assistance or representation as the domestic law provides for. This does not necessarily mean that they are entitled to remain in the territory throughout the duration of the proceedings initiated by them. The directive was repealed as from 30 April 2006 by Directive 2004/38/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States OJ L 158, 30.4.2004 . . The above material and procedural safeguards have been strengthened further in this directive. Article 31(4) of Directive 2004/38/EC provides that the host Member State may exclude the individuals concerned from its territory pending the redress procedure against the expulsion decision, but it may not prevent them from submitting their defence in person, except when their