company start-ups differs widely in the Member States. This explains the catalogue of good proposals which the Commission has taken as the basis of its Green Paper. There is room for improvement in all fields of activity of the EU, but particularly where start-up related knowhow can be disseminated by schools and universities. A leaner bureaucracy, a simplified tax system and keeping the focus on services that meet real needs are also part of the equation, as is the attitude of European citizens towards entrepreneurs and business start-ups. The greatest structural problem is the aversion to risk and pessimism about setting up in business of young people in some Member States, as is borne out by the specific figures. This problem cannot be tackled with new promotional campaigns; what is needed here is a return to a belief in the forces of the social market economy in order to create incentives for potential entrepreneurs to assume entrepreneurial risk and responsibility. In its Green Paper, the Commission has described what are in its view the necessary next steps. These include a coordinated approach to entrepreneurship policy based on learning from the best, as well as three pillars for action towards an entrepreneurial society through which barriers to business development and growth are brought down, the risks and rewards of entrepreneurship are balanced and a society that values entrepreneurship is promoted. The ten-point questionnaire listed along with these three tasks is addressed to all concerned parties in the European Union. After evaluating these replies, the Commission has the job of framing a comprehensive blueprint in collaboration with the Member States and Parliament. This approach is the right and necessary one for fostering entrepreneurship in the EU. However, success will be possible only if all Member States exercising their powers collaborate on this large-scale coordinated approach. The challenges facing a new era of business pioneers in the European Union are evident. The essential structure reforms in some Member States need to be tackled in a determined manner. Public sector activity needs to be looked at and more competition in the economy and in the welfare state as well as completion of the European internal market are also needed. Transforming industrial society into a knowledge-oriented society based on services and knowhow requires the removal of barriers and a boost to research and development. Free space for citizens and hence incentives for individual interests and individual initiative must also be included in the equation. Competition must be practised positively and help ensure that the social market economy outranks other economic systems. Ethical business principles are just as much part of this climate as the underlying regulatory approach based on freedom, individual responsibility, the ability to enthuse others and pioneering spirit. The Commission has in recent years adopted a whole range of communications and reports dealing with greater support for small businesses in a growing European Union. Included among these are the report on the implementation of the European Charter for Small Enterprises, the report on implementation of the European Charter for Small Enterprises in the Accession Countries,