Answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission (21 March 2011) 1. The exemptions mentioned in Article 132 of Council Directive 2006/112/EC (hereafter: the VAT Directive) cover activities in the public interest. Article 132(1)(m) exempts ‘the supply of certain services closely linked to sport or physical education by non-profit-making organisations to persons taking part in sport or physical education’. Article 133, however, allows Member States to set conditions to the granting of the exemption. These include the conditions that any entity benefiting from the exemption should not systematically aim to make a profit, that it must be managed and administered on an essentially voluntary basis and conditions on the prices charged by these entities. Article 133(d) in particular mentions that ‘the exemptions must not be likely to cause distortion of competition to the disadvantage of commercial enterprises subject to VAT’. In enacting this provision, the legislators clearly attached significance to the ‘non-profit-making’ aspect of the entity carrying on the exempted activity. The Court of Justice of the European Union underlined the importance of this distinguishing mark in that it is unlike a commercial undertaking in not having the aim of making profits for its members Kennemer Golf and Country Club v Staatssecretaris van Financiën , Case C‑174/00 [2002] ECR I‑3293. . The VAT Directive provides Member States with the elements necessary to ensure that there is no distortion of competition. The Commission has received no complaint that the application of EU VAT law to golf in Denmark is not in compliance with these rules. 2. Furthermore, the Commission has committed itself to review the present provisions concerning public bodies and the exemptions in the public interest in the VAT Directive. In this context the Commission has launched an in-depth study on the VAT treatment of public authorities and on exemptions in the public interest. This study will pave the way for any possible future initiative in this area.