], [ "First inauguration of Barack Obama", [ "The first inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th President of the United States took place on Tuesday, January 20, 2009.", " The inauguration, which set a record attendance for any event held in Washington, D.C., marked the commencement of the first four-year term of Barack Obama as President and Joe Biden as Vice President.", " Based on the combined attendance numbers, television viewership, and Internet traffic, it was among the most-observed events ever by the global audience." ] ], [ "Second inauguration of George Washington", [ "The second inauguration of George Washington as President of the United States was held in the Senate Chamber of Congress Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on Monday, March 4, 1793.", " The inauguration marked the commencement of the second four-year term of George Washington as President and of John Adams as Vice President.", " The presidential oath of office was administered to George Washington by Associate Justice William Cushing.", " This was the first inauguration to take place in Philadelphia (then the nation's capital), and took place exactly four years after the new federal government began operations under the U.S. Constitution." ] ], [ "First inauguration of George W. Bush", [ "The first inauguration of George W. Bush as the 43rd President of the United States took place on Saturday, January 20, 2001.", " The inauguration marked the commencement of the first four-year term of George W. Bush as President and Dick Cheney as Vice President.", " Chief Justice William Rehnquist administered the oath of office at 12:01 p.m.", " An estimated 300,000 people attended the swearing-in ceremony." ] ], [ "Inauguration of Chester A. Arthur", [ "The inauguration of Chester A. Arthur as the 21st President of the United States was held on Tuesday, September 20, 1881, at 123 Lexington Avenue in New York City, New York, following the death of President James A. Garfield the previous evening.", " The inauguration marked the commencement of Chester A. Arthur's only term (a partial term of ) as President.", " This was the fourth non-scheduled, extraordinary inauguration to take place during the 19th century, and was the first to take place in New York City since George Washington's first inauguration in 1789." ] ], [ "First inauguration of George Washington", [ "The first inauguration of George Washington as the first President of the United States was held on Thursday, April 30, 1789 on the balcony of Federal Hall in New York City, New York.", " The inauguration marked the commencement of the first four-year term of George Washington as President.", " Chancellor of New York Robert Livingston administered the presidential oath of office.", " With his inauguration, the executive branch of the United States government officially began operations under the new frame of government established by the 1787 Constitution.", " The first term of John Adams as Vice President commenced on April 21, 1789, when he assumed his duties as presiding officer of the United States Senate." ] ], [ "Federal Hall", [ "Federal Hall, built in 1700 as