team achieved little success.", " After disappearing from television, Hankinson later became the enforcer and \"disciple\" of CM Punk, sporting a cleaner, militant look, with the Festus character's \"real identity\" revealed as Luke Gallows.", " His first run in WWE ended in 2010.", " He is perhaps best known for working for New Japan Pro Wrestling under the ring name Doc Gallows, and he also wrestled prominently under the TNA banner, where he was a member of the heel Aces & Eights stable under the ring name D.O.C. (Director of Chaos).", " Along with Karl Anderson, Hankinson has won the WWE Raw Tag Team Championship once since returning to WWE, and he also held the IWGP Tag Team Championship three times with Anderson, making them one of only three tag teams (with The Steiner Brothers and The Dudley Boyz) to have held both titles between those promotions." ] ], [ "Rob Terry", [ "Robert Terry (born December 23, 1980), is a Welsh professional wrestler and bodybuilder.", " He is best known for working in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) under the ring names Rob Terry and The Freak.", " He also worked TNA's developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), where he is a former two-time Heavyweight Champion and a one-time Southern Tag Team and Television Champion.", " Before signing with TNA, he was under contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) and competed in the company's developmental territory, Florida Championship Wrestling." ] ], [ "Terry Brands", [ "Terry Brands (born April 9, 1968 in Omaha, Nebraska) is an American Olympic wrestler who won a bronze medal at the 2000 Summer Olympics, after losing the semi-final match to the famous Iranian wrestler, Alireza Dabir.", " While wrestling at the University of Iowa, Brands won NCAA titles in 1990 and 1992, both at 126 pounds.", " He was a two-time world freestyle champion at 58 kg, winning titles in 1993 and 1995.", " Terry became the head wrestling coach at The University of Tennessee at Chattanooga in the spring of 2002 where he coached the likes of Christopher Bird and Matthew Wilbanks." ] ], [ "Ray Gordy", [ "Terry Ray Gordy Jr. (born March 23, 1979) is an American retired professional wrestler.", " He is best known for his appearances with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) between 2005 and 2010, where he performed on its \"SmackDown\" brand under the ring names Jesse and Slam Master J." ] ], [ "&quot;Dr. Death&quot; Steve Williams", [ "Steven Williams (May 14, 1960 – December 29, 2009), better known by his ring name \"Dr. Death\" Steve Williams, was an American professional wrestler, author, former collegiate football player, and amateur wrestler at the University of Oklahoma.", " Dr. Death was a three-time professional wrestling world heavyweight champion, having won the UWF World Heavyweight Championship twice and the Triple Crown Heavyweight Championship once.", " In addition to his singles success, Dr. Death achieved notoriety in Japan in tag team competition, winning the World Tag Team Championship eight times with notable tag team partners Terry Gordy, Gary Albright, Vader, and Johnny Ace.", "