Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Member States shall as promptly as possible provide the Commission (Eurostat) with access to all the information requested for the needs of the data quality assessment , including statistical information such as data from national accounts , inventories , excessive deficit procedure notification tables , additional questionnaires and clarification related to the notifications. 2. Member States shall as promptly as possible provide the Commission (Eurostat) with access to all the statistical and budgetary information requested for the needs of the data quality assessment . Th at information shall be based on a standardised and internationally accepted method of accounting agreed with the Commission (Eurostat). Statistical and budgetary information shall include , in particular: (a) data from national accounts ; (b ) inventories ; (c) excessive deficit procedure (EDP) notification tables ; (d) additional questionnaires and clarifications related to EDP notifications ; (e) information from the Gen e ral Audit O ffice, Ministry of F inance or relevant regional authority on the execution of the Member State's national and regional budgets; (f) the accounts of extra-budgetary bodies or non-profit organisations and similar bodies that are part of the general government sector in national accounts; (g) exhaustive information on any type of off-balance sheet body; (h) the accounts of social security funds; and (i) local government surveys . Amendment 1 6 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 3 Regulation (EC) No 479/2009 Article 11 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The methodological visits are designed to monitor the processes and verify the accounts which justify the reported actual data and to draw detailed conclusions as to the quality of reported data, as defined in Article 8(1). 3. The methodological visits may be unannounced and are designed to monitor the processes including the independence of the national statistical authority from the government and verify the accounts which justify the reported actual data and to draw detailed conclusions as to the quality of reported data, as defined in Article 8(1). Justification More stringent regulation should be put in place towards those Member States which deceives the EU and investors by disclosing falsified macroeconomic statistics. This provision has to assure that the Greek example can not re-emerge in the future. Amendment 1 7 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 3 Regulation (EC) No 479/2009 Article 11 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The methodological visits shall only be undertaken in exceptional cases where significant risks or problems with the quality of the data have been clearly identified . The methodological visits , announced or unannounced, shall only be undertaken in cases where serious risks or problems with the quality of the data are suspected . The Commission shall establish a list of cases t o be considered as a significant risk or problem relating to the quality of the data. Th at list shall be established after consult ing the CMFB. Amendment 1 8 Proposal for a