implementing powers provided for in the basic instrument; in such cases, it shall endeavour to reach a balanced solution. (iv) Monitoring the application of Community law 36. In addition to specific reports and the annual report on the application of Community law, the Commission shall, at the request of the responsible parliamentary committee, keep Parliament informed orally of the stage reached in the procedure as from the stage when the reasoned opinion is sent and, where procedures have been initiated for failure to communicate the measures implementing a directive, or for failure to comply with a judgment of the Court of Justice, as from the stage of formal notice. V. COMMISSION'S PARTICIPATION IN PARLIAMENTARY PROCEEDINGS 37. Parliament shall seek to ensure that, as a general rule, items falling under the responsibility of a Member of the Commission are grouped together. The Commission shall seek to ensure that, as a general rule, Members of the Commission are present at plenary sittings for agenda items falling under their responsibility, whenever Parliament so requests. 38. With a view to ensuring the presence of Members of the Commission, Parliament undertakes to do its best to maintain its final draft agendas. Where Parliament amends its final draft agenda, or where it moves items within the agenda within a part-session, Parliament shall immediately inform the Commission. The Commission shall use its best endeavours to ensure the presence of the Member of the Commission responsible. 39. The Commission may propose the inclusion of items on the agenda not later than the meeting of the Conference of Presidents that decides on the final draft agenda of a part-session. Parliament shall take the fullest account of such proposals. 40. As a general rule, the Member of the Commission responsible for an item under consideration in a parliamentary committee shall be present at the relevant committee meeting, when invited. Members of the Commission shall be heard at their request. Parliamentary committees shall seek to maintain their draft agendas and agendas. Whenever a parliamentary committee amends its draft agenda or its agenda, the Commission shall be immediately informed thereof. Where the presence of a Member of the Commission is not explicitly required at a parliamentary committee meeting, the Commission shall ensure that it is represented by a competent official at an appropriate level. VI. FINAL PROVISIONS 41. The two Institutions undertake to reinforce their cooperation in the field of information and communication. 42. The implementation of this Framework Agreement and its Annexes shall be assessed periodically by the two Institutions, and their revision shall be considered, in the light of practical experience, at the request of one of them. 43. This Framework Agreement shall be reviewed following the entry into force of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. Annex 1 : Forwarding of confidential information to the European Parliament 1. Scope 1.1 This Annex shall govern the forwarding to Parliament and the handling of confidential information from the Commission in connection with the exercise of parliamentary prerogatives concerning the legislative and budgetary procedures, the procedure for giving discharge and the exercise in