Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (22 April 2008) Regarding the safety concerns for hair dyes, it should be firstly noted that substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction of Category c or 2 are not allowed at all in cosmetic products, while for Category c substances, it has to be proven that the concentrations used do not pose a threat to consumer health. In June 2001 the Scientific Committee on Consumer Products (SCCP) concluded in its opinion that there was a possible link between the long term use of permanent hair dyes and the development of bladder cancer. Based on this opinion, in April 2003, Member States and stakeholders agreed, together with the Commission, on an overall reassessment strategy to remove any doubts concerning the safety of hair dye products. According to the requirements of the strategy the cosmetics industry was requested to support the use of all hair dye substances with detailed safety data. The reassessment is done by the SCCP which analyses the safety of cosmetics ingredients on the basis of realistic consumer exposure. Consequently, substances receiving a negative opinion from the SCCP or without sufficient data to prove their safety will be banned. As a result of this strategy the total number of prohibited hair dyes in the EU has so far increased to 135 substances. Based on the opinions given by the Scientific Committee, the Commission is in the process of setting up a list of positively assessed hair dye substances which are safe for human health. In March 2007, the SCCP published a memorandum drawing the attention of the Commission to the fact that many currently used hair dye substances are skin sensitizers, and that this property may be of concern for the health of consumers and society. Based on the memorandum, the Commission extended its ongoing assessment of the safety of hair dye substances in order to minimise possible risks of allergic reactions caused by hair dye products. At the same time, current preventive measures are being reviewed and their further improvement considered, in order to minimise possible risks of adverse reactions to hair dyes. In the framework of the ‘Cosmetics Directive’ 76/768/EEC Council Directive 76/768/EEC of 27 July 1976 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to cosmetic products, OJ L 262, 27.9.1976. , the Commission focuses, in particular, on the risks for consumer safety. However, it is evident that all users are going to profit from a better consideration of allergic risks stemming from hair dyes. The aim of the ‘Cosmetics Directive’ 76/768/EEC is to ensure a high level of consumer protection and the free circulation of these products in the internal market. Specific aspects relating to the situation of professional users are appropriately addressed through the obligation in the Cosmetics Directive to label on the cosmetic product special precautionary information for professional users (for example, to wear suitable gloves). In relation to occupational exposure, it is not intended to extend its scope to issues of occupational chemical safety. Rather, occupational chemical safety