WRITTEN QUESTION E-1957/07 by Stavros Lambrinidis (PSE) to the Commission (12 April 2007) Subject: Visa Waiver Programme and PNR The US Congress is in the process of reviewing the Patriot Act together with the legal framework and conditions for including a State in the US Visa Waiver Programme. One of the provisions of the draft law is reportedly that, in order for a State to be included in the Visa Waiver Programme, that State will have to give a bilateral commitment to the USA that it will provide the competent US authorities with an unspecified amount of personal data on European passengers in order to determine to what extent they ‘constitute a threat to the security of the United States’. Given that (a) entry visa policy falls within the competence of the Community and not each Member State separately, (b) under the new law being drafted in the USA, the conditions for the inclusion of the remaining 12 EU Member States in the programme will differ from those applying to those Member States already included, (c) the US Government still refuses to include the remaining 12 Member States (among them Greece) in the programme despite repeated appeals from the Council and the Commission to do so, thus effectively infringing the European principle of reciprocity between the EU and third countries in relation to visas and (d) negotiations are under way to reach a new joint agreement (also known as PNR) on the exchange of data on European passengers between the EU and the USA, which in theory aims to set up a common transparent legal framework and consequently avoid unilateral pressure for separate bilateral agreements between the USA and the Member States, will the Commission answer the following questions? 1. Does it agree that the provision that a Member State of the EU must unilaterally provide data on European passengers in order to be included in the programme not only violates the principle of reciprocity applying to all Member States of the EU but is also flagrantly contrary to the declared wish of both the EU and the USA to negotiate a new joint agreement on the legal transfer and use of data concerning European passengers? If so, what representations has it made to the US Government and the US Congress on this matter and what further measures does it intend to take? 2. Has the Commission informed the USA that visa policy is a Community policy and that negotiations can take place only with the Community and not the Member States separately? 3. Has it given the USA notice of sanctions if the USA persists in not including the 12 Member States currently excluded from the programme, as it has the right to do under the applicable EU legislation and, if so, what are those sanctions specifically?