P6_TA(2004)0021 Ratification procedures of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and the communication strategy B6-0067/2004 European Parliament resolution on the procedures for ratification of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and a communication strategy for the said Treaty The European Parliament, – having regard to the draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, to which the Heads of State or Government of the Member States of the European Union gave their agreement on 18 June 2004 Document CIG 87/04. at the Intergovernmental Conference, on the basis of the text drawn up by the European Convention, and which is due to be signed in Rome on 29 October 2004, – having regard to Rule 108(5) of the Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the agreement reached on 18 June 2004 is of historical significance and constitutes the first major political act of the enlarged European Union, laying the foundations for a renewed Union based on increased democracy, transparency and efficiency, B. whereas, in 2005, 60 years after the end of the Second World War and 16 years after the end of the division of Europe, our continent is reconciled in an order of peace and freedom, based on ever closer economic and political integration, of which the European Communities, and subsequently the Union and their successive enlargements, have been the driving force, C. whereas the Constitution should be presented to Europe's citizens in as clear, fair and understandable a way as possible, clearly emphasising the elements already in force and stressing the new provisions, 1. Will deliver its opinion on the constitutional Treaty as soon as possible after it has been signed; 2. Calls on the Council to devise a coordinated approach to the timetabling of national ratification procedures and to share best practice in terms of parliamentary scrutiny and referendum campaigning; 3. Suggests that the period from 5 to 8 May 2005 might be chosen as a suitable period for holding the planned referenda on the Constitution or the parliamentary ratification in the Member States, as this period would be of symbolic value, both for peace on our continent and for European integration; 4. 4 Suggests that the ratification process in all Member States should be accomplished by June 2006; 5. Deems it essential to emphasise the European dimension of the draft Constitution in the national ratification procedures in order to increase a shared sense of civic community across the Union; 6. Calls on the Council and the Commission to draw up an appropriate campaign and communication strategy; declares its willingness to contribute to this strategy; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the governments and parliaments of the Member States.