in order to improve the collective air navigation structures, the supply of air navigation services and the use of airspace. deleted Justification An additional levy on air navigation charges must be avoided. User charges will already contribute to the programme via Eurocontrol. A successful definition phase should deliver a clear business case triggering the necessary private investment (and public funding). Amendment 4 Recital 11 (11) The public budget for the implementation phase of the SESAR project should be supplemented by contributions from the private sector. (11) The public budget for the implementation phase of the SESAR project should be supplemented by contributions from the private sector. During the development phase (2008-2013) these contributions should amount to 50% of the budget. Justification SESAR should allow industry to fully bring in its expertise. But if SESAR is to be an industry-led initiative, this has also to be reflected in the financing of the development phase. Amendment 5 Recital 14 (14) This entity should also be exempt from taxation by the Member States as regards taxes other than VAT and excise duty, and salaries paid to its staff should be exempt from any national income tax . (14) This entity should also be exempt from taxation by the Member States as regards taxes other than VAT and excise duty, and salaries paid to its staff should be in line with the conditions of employment of other servants of the European Communities. Justification For reasons of legal and social consistency, it is important to clarify that wage levels should be in line with the 'Rules applicable to other servants of the European Communities'. Amendment 6 Recital 15 (15) SESAR is a research and development project which justifies funding from the Community research and development framework programmes. It is therefore necessary to set up a Joint Undertaking under Article 171 of the Treaty in order to enable considerable progress to be made in the development of technologies relating to air traffic control systems during the development phase (2008-2013) phases. (15) SESAR is a research and development project which justifies funding from the Community research and development framework programmes. It is therefore necessary to set up a Joint Undertaking under Articles 171 and 173 of the Treaty in order to enable considerable progress to be made in the development of technologies relating to air traffic control systems during the development phase (2008-2013) phases. Justification This is in line with the twofold legal basis proposed, i.e. Articles 171 and 173 of the EC Treaty. Amendment 7 Recital 17 a (new) (17a) It is desirable for the private sector to be appropriately involved in all phases, especially in the development phase (2008-2013), so as to ensure the liability of private-sector participants during the deployment phase (2014-2020). Justification The industry can have some problems related their liability when install a new system if they are not appropriately involved in the development of the technological bases. Amendment 8 Article 2, paragraph 3 3. The Joint Undertaking shall be exempt from taxation by the Member States as regards taxes other than VAT and