will help this instrument to facilitate cooperation between regional authorities and/or local authorities without any intervention by the Member States (amendments 10 and 17) . Ø Your rapporteur would like to stress that the setting up of a EGCC will result in the national public authorities of the Member State whose law applies to the EGCC having the right of oversight in respect of the way in which any national or Community financial assistance is used (amendment 16). Ø The EGCC is invested with the legal capacity accorded to legal entities by national legislation because of the nature of its activities and the tasks delegated to it. The legal capacity of the EGCC is that accorded to legal entities by the relevant national legislation (Article 3(2) of the Commission proposal) . Your rapporteur stresses that the EGCC must confine its activities to carrying out specific tasks . The EGCC acts in performance of the tasks delegated to it, which may be assigned to one of its members. Moreover, the EGCC must exist as a legal entity (with or without legal personality) by virtue of binding national legislation such as the law on associations (amendments 19, 21 and 31) . Setting up the EGCC : The Commission proposal offers two possibilities (Article 2(3) of the Commission proposal): - the members of the EGCC can set it up as a separate legal entity if they wish, in which case the EGCC itself carries out the relevant cross-border cooperation tasks, or - the members set up an EGCC and the EGCC decides, according to its own decision-making system, to delegate to a regional or local authority which is a member of the EGCC the tasks of the EGCC. This authority will then carry out the tasks delegated to the EGCC. Your rapporteur considers that the text should not state that members ‘can decide to set up the’ EGCC in accordance with one of these two options, but that they ‘set up’ the EGCC (amendment 18) . Ø The tasks and competencies of the EGCC must be specified by its members in a convention of European cross-border cooperation (Article 4 of the Commission proposal). Your rapporteur considers that the EGCC is the subject of the convention of European cross-border cooperation drawn up by its members (amendment 25). Ø The convention specifies: - the tasks of the EGCC, its duration and the conditions for its dissolution(Article 4(2)) - the responsibilities of each of the members with respect to the EGCC and with respect to third parties (Article 4(4)); - the law applicable to its interpretation and enforcement (Article 4(5)). The applicable law is that of one of the Member States concerned, either by virtue of its participation in the EGCC, or by virtue of the participation of a local authority or public body situated on the territory of that Member State. It may also be the law of the Member State where the EGCC has its seat; - the modalities of mutual recognition with regard to control (Article 4(6)); in addition, the convention must be notified to