Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (15 March 2011) Since the inception of the Marie Curie Actions (MCAs) in 1996, some 50 000 researchers have been funded, and by the end of the 7th Framework Programme for Research (FP7, 2007‑13), it is estimated that approximately 90 000 researchers will have benefitted from a Marie Curie grant through either host driven or individual driven actions. The Commission can present detailed figures related to Marie Curie grants for the period 2002‑06 (FP6) and 2007‑10 (FP7 so far) when it comes to: (a) the total number of selected researchers at this stage per MCA; (b) the total number of researchers per nationality; and (c) the total number of host institutions per country (see Annex A for FP6 Annex A, 2 and 3 are sent directly to the Honourable Member and to Parliament's Secretariat. The MCAs differentiate between early stage researchers (doctoral candidates) and experienced researchers (post-doctoral researchers). However, as both categories of researchers are eligible in a few of the same actions, it is difficult to present real figures separated into these two categories. and Annex A for FP7) Detailed statistics on the participation of the individual EU Member States in the MCAs is available at: http://ec.europa.eu/research/mariecurieactions/country-facts.cfm . The MCAs are setting standards for a favourable open recruitment policy for researchers and attractive careers with good working conditions, social security and pension rights, as well as a work-life balance. In March 2005, the Commission adopted the recommendation on the ‘European Charter for Researchers and the Code of Conduct for their Recruitment’ C(2005)576 final of 11 March 2005. , emphasising researchers' professional rights and employment conditions. The MCAs have embedded the principles in the Charter & Code into the agreements signed with the beneficiaries. The MCAs require host institutions to sign an employment contract with researchers. Only in duly justified cases the host institution may recruit the researcher under a status equivalent to a fixed-amount fellowship. In line with Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 OJ L 166, 30.4.2004. of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems, Annexes II and III of the Marie Curie Grant Agreements provide that the beneficiary must ensure that the researcher is covered by the social security legislation applicable according to Title II of the 883/2004 Regulation. The Commission does not have the detailed figures on how many permanent posts have been created by the Marie Curie grants. However, the ‘Ex-post Impact Assessment study concerning the Marie Curie Actions under the sixth framework programme’, which also covers the 4th and 5th framework programmes, provides some useful data to estimate the percentage of Marie Curie fellows that have gained permanent or tenure track positions after their fellowships (see Annex A). Overall 36 % of the Marie Curie Fellows that participated in the study have obtained permanent positions, and this figure goes up to about 50 % when tenure track positions (position for more than three years) are taken into account. When considering the type of a researcher, 40 %