1965 in respect of Members of the European Parliament ( A2‑121/86 ). 5. It seems useful to remind the principles that are applicable to the case under consideration, stressing the need for decisions on waivers of immunity to have a sound legal basis so that they are not influenced by considerations relating to political affiliation and even the nationality of the Member concerned. A. Purpose of parliamentary immunity Parliamentary immunity is not a Member's personal privilege, but a guarantee of the independence of Parliament and its Members in relation to other authorities. On the basis of this principle, the date on which the alleged deeds took place is of no importance and may be either prior to or subsequent to the election of the Member, since protection of Parliament through its Members is the sole consideration. B. Time limit on immunity The Court of Justice has twice been consulted on the interpretation of the phrase 'during the sessions of the European Parliament', which appears in Article 10 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities. From the two judgements of the Court (Wagner v Fohrmann and Krier of 12 May 1964, 101/63, ECR 1964, p. 397, and Wybot v Faure of 10 July 1986, 149/85, ECR 1986, p. 2403), it may be inferred that Parliament holds an annual session during which its Members, even during the periods when the session is interrupted, enjoy the immunity provided for in the above Protocol. Furthermore, it stems from the very purpose of parliamentary immunity that the latter remains effective throughout a Member's term of office and covers the commencement of the proceedings, preparatory inquiries, measures for the execution of pre-existing judgements, appeals or applications for judgments to be set aside. C. Independent nature of European parliamentary immunity compared with national parliamentary immunity The fact that Article 10, first paragraph, section (a), of the Protocol refers to the immunities accorded to members of national parliaments does not mean that the European Parliament cannot create its own rules which, in some way, constitute 'case law'. As regards the waiver of parliamentary immunity, such immunity, which is identical for Members of a given nationality in their national parliament and in the European Parliament, must not be confused with the waiver thereof, which is a prerogative of each individual parliament. These rules, which are derived from decisions adopted in respect of applications for immunity to be waived, create a consistent notion of European parliamentary immunity which, in general terms, is independent of the various national parliamentary procedures. If this were not the case the disparities between members of one and the same parliament would be accentuated on the basis of their nationality. 6. Through application of these principles, a constant factor has emerged in Parliament's decisions, which has become a basic criterion in its response to each request for waiver of immunity. Immunity is not waived in any case where a Member is accused of actions that come under the heading of political activity. Along with this criterion, there are further considerations that militate for