Conference of Presidents shall decide how seats in the Chamber are to be allocated among the political groups, the non-attached Members and the institutions of the European Union. TITLE II LEGISLATIVE, BUDGETARY AND OTHER PROCEDURES CHAPTER 1 LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES - GENERAL PROVISIONS Rule 33 Commission's legislative and work programme 1. Parliament shall work together with the Commission and the Council to determine the legislative planning of the European Union. Parliament and the Commission shall cooperate in preparing the Commission's legislative and work programme in accordance with the timetable and arrangements agreed between the two institutions and annexed to these Rules of Procedure See Annex XIV. . 2. In urgent and unforeseen circumstances, an institution may, on its own initiative and according to the procedures laid down in the Treaties, propose adding a legislative measure to those proposed in the Legislative Programme. 3. The President shall forward the resolution adopted by Parliament to the other institutions which participate in the European Union's legislative procedure and to the parliaments of the Member States. The President shall ask the Council to express an opinion on the Commission's Annual Legislative Programme as well as Parliament's resolution. 4. Where an institution is unable to comply with the timetable laid down it shall notify the other institutions as to the reasons for the delay and propose a new timetable. Rule 34 Examination of respect for fundamental rights, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the rule of law, and financial implications During the examination of a legislative proposal, Parliament shall pay particular attention to respect for fundamental rights and in particular that the legislative act is in conformity with the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and the rule of law. In addition, where a proposal has financial implications, Parliament shall establish whether sufficient financial resources are provided. Rule 35 Verification of legal basis 1. For all Commission proposals and other documents of a legislative nature, the committee responsible shall first verify the legal basis. 2. If the committee responsible disputes the validity or the appropriateness of the legal basis, including in the context of the verification pursuant to Article 5 of the EC Treaty, it shall request the opinion of the committee responsible for legal affairs. 3. The committee responsible for legal affairs may also on its own initiative take up questions concerning the legal basis of the proposals submitted by the Commission. In such cases it shall duly inform the committee responsible. 4. If the committee responsible for legal affairs decides to dispute the validity or the appropriateness of the legal basis, it shall report its conclusions to Parliament. Parliament shall vote on this prior to voting on the substance of the proposal. 5. Amendments tabled in Parliament to change the legal basis of a Commission proposal without the committee responsible or the committee responsible for legal affairs having disputed the validity or appropriateness of the legal basis shall be inadmissible. 6. If the Commission does not agree to modify its proposal to conform to the legal basis approved by Parliament,