numbered as follows: 1. surname of the holder; 2. first name of the holder; 3. date and place of birth of the holder; 4. (a) date of issue; b) date of expiry; c) the name of the issuing authority (may be printed on side 2); d) a different number from the driving licence number for administrative purposes (optional); 5. (a) driving licence number; b) serial number; 6. photograph of the holder; 7. signature of the holder; 8. normal place of residence, or postal address of the holder (optional); 9. the (sub-)categories of vehicles for which the driver satisfies the initial qualification and periodic training requirements; e) the title "European Communities model" in the language or languages of the Member State issuing the card and the heading "driver qualification card" in the other official languages of the Community, printed in blue so as to form the background to the card: tarjeta de cualificación del conductor chaufføruddannelsesbevis Fahrerqualifizierungsnachweis δελτίο επιμόρφωσης οδηγού driver qualification card carte de qualification de conducteur cárta cáilíochta tiomána carta di qualificazione del conducente kwalificatiekaart bestuurder carta de qualificação do motorista kuljettajan ammattipätevyyskortti yrkeskompetensbevis för förare f) the reference colours: – blue: Pantone Reflex blue, – yellow: Pantone yellow. Side 2 contains: a) 9. the (sub-)categories of vehicles for which the driver satisfies the initial qualification and periodic training requirements; 10. the Community code provided for in Article 10 of this Directive; 11. a space reserved for the possible entry by the Member State issuing the card of essential administrative details or details relating to road safety (optional). If the details relate to a heading set out in this Annex, such details must be preceded by the corresponding heading number. b) an explanation of the numbered entries appearing on sides 1 and 2 of the card (at least headings 1, 2, 3, 4(a), 4(b), 4(c), 5(a), 5(b) and 10). If a Member State wishes to word these entries in a national language other than one of the following languages: Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish, it shall draw up a bilingual version of the card using one of the abovementioned languages, without prejudice to the other provisions of this Annex. 3. Security, including data protection. The aim of the various constituent parts of the card is to rule out any forgery or tampering and to detect any attempts to do so. The Member State must ensure that the level of security of the card is at least comparable to the level of security of the driving licence. 4. Particular arrangements After consulting the Commission, Member States may add colours or markings, such as a bar code, national symbols and security features, without prejudice to the other provisions of this Annex. In connection with the mutual recognition of cards, the bar code may not contain any information other than that already legibly appearing on the driver qualification card or which is essential for the card-issuing process. EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES MODEL FOR A DRIVER QUALIFICATION CARD Side 1 Side 2