Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (25 October 2011) Solvency II is the most profound revision of the EU supervisory system and regulatory regime for insurance and reinsurance since decades. The industry has been very closely involved in this major regulatory project since the very beginning. That said, the Commission acknowledges that the new regime will require adaptations from companies as well as supervisors. The principle of proportionality is a fundamental component of the Solvency II regime. The principle applies at all levels, including as regards the requirements imposed on undertakings and the exercise of supervisory powers. More specifically, less complex undertakings (often small undertakings) will have less burdensome requirements because of a less complex risk profile that is less complex. This means that size is not the only relevant factor when the principle of proportionality is considered. Instead, the individual risk profile, which has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, should be the primary guide when applying the proportionality principle. By way of example, less complex undertakings may use simplifications in the valuation of their technical provisions or in the calculation of the Solvency Capital Requirements, by less detailed reporting requirements, by a less sophisticated Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA), or by combining certain key functions in the system of governance. Moreover, there will likely be a phasing-in period between 1.1.2013 (deadline for transposition) and 1.1.2014 (start of application of Solvency II) which can be used by undertakings to prepare for the start of the overall regime. Several transitional provisions, currently discussed in the framework of the so-called Omnibus 2 negotiations in the Council and the European Parliament, are also foreseen. These may allow for an extended recovery period of up to 12 months in case of non-compliance with the Solvency Capital Requirements (SCR) in the first year. Similarly, a phasing-in approach for reporting and public disclosure is foreseen, extending relevant deadlines for undertakings during the first four years of application of Solvency II. Concerning the division of competence between EIOPA and national supervisors, day-to-day supervision will remain with the national supervisor. EIOPA should ensure the consistent application of the EC law and, contribute to the development of common standards and practices in the insurance sector. Some specific tasks are conferred on the Authority, including the preparation of technical standards, the exercise of binding mediation and the possibility to take action in emergency situations or in the case of a breach of EC law. Finally and as is the case under the current insurance legislation, the Solvency II Directive is based on the home-state principle, according to which the prudential supervision of (re)insurance undertakings, including business they pursue either through branches or under the freedom to provide services in other Member States, is the sole responsibility of the home Member State.