said he would support the outcome whatever it may be. Responding to the debate for the Council, Dick Roche emphasised that, coming from Ireland, he understood the problems of historic, generations-long conflict. In such circumstances, there were rare opportunities to resolve the problems, and this was one such opportunity. He quoted the President in Office of the Council, Bertie AHERN, T.D. , as saying the view of the overwhelming majority of the European Council was that the Annan plan was good for both sides of Cyprus and good for the EU. He concluded with a warning that the EU should not be seen as intruding into a decision that was for the people of Cyprus alone to make, though he hoped the decision would be one which served the interests of all the people of the island. In his response to the debate, Commissioner Chris PATTEN said if there were to be a yes from the Turkish Cypriots and a no from the Greek Cypriots, then the Commission would seek to find an efficient and rapid solution to Turkish Cyprus's economic isolation. He also recalled that during his first European Council in Helsinki, the EU had taken the necessary but risky position to decouple enlargement to central and eastern European countries and that of Cyprus. Overall, " there is a feeling of being badly let down in the Commission " and also repeated Commissioner Verheugen's feelings that the Commission and others had been " cheated ". Press enquiries: Marjory van den Broeke (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 72208 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 44304 e-mail : foreign-press@europarl.eu.int Citizens' Rights Risks of violation, in the EU and especially in Italy, of freedom of expression and information Johanna BOOGERD-QUAAK (ELDR, NL) Report on the risks of violation, in the EU and especially in Italy, of freedom of expression and information (Article 11(2) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights) (2003/2237(INI)) Doc.: A5-0230/2004 Procedure : Own-initiative Debate : 20.04.2004 Vote: 22.04.2004 Vote Parliament adopted a highly controversial report on freedom of expression and information by 237 votes in favour to 24 against with 14 abstentions. Before the vote two political groups, EPP-ED and UEN, declared that they would not participate in protest against the voting procedure to be followed. Before this vote MEPs rejected a request to refer the report back to the committee by 214 to 259 against with 1 abstention. One of the controversial points of the own-initiative report by Johanna BOOGERD-QUAAK (ELDR, NL) was the reference made to named persons. President Pat COX ruled that references to named persons should be deleted from the report in accordance with standard parliamentary practice. In this report Parliament stressed that a free and pluralist media is essential to freedom of expression and information. It went on to consider that where Member States fail to take adequate measures the EU has a political, moral and legal obligation to ensure within its competence that media pluralism is respected. MEPs took the view that there are sufficient concerns to warrant a detailed examination of the situation by the Commission, which should be followed