I still believe that it was never insolvent at any point in time that I can identify (H8)." In H2 Mr THOMSON furthermore suggested that there has been " a common interest that we do not want to see the company to become insolvent ". According to him, had the company become insolvent, the prospects for policyholders would have looked substantially worse. In H8 he repeated this view: " There is the suggestion that it would have been better for the Society to become insolvent. This option was dealt with in the documentation for the Compromise Scheme in 2001 and it was obvious then, and it remains so now, that liquidation would have produced a much less satisfactory outcome for policyholder ." Regarding the decision not to close Equitable Life, Mr STRACHAN (H4) pointed out that the FSA considered that " on balance, the interests of the one million or so existing Equitable policyholders were better served by allowing the company ... to continue for new business ". In this respect, Lord PENROSE notes the following: " Following the House of Lords' decision, when considering whether the Society should close, regulators were faced with competing interests. It is a legitimate and necessary part of prudential regulation that the interests of existing and potential policyholders may need to be balanced, and I do not find fault with the regulators for arriving at the conclusion that they did, although I am concerned that FSA and GAD did not have sufficient independent knowledge and understanding of the Society's business to justify their confidence that a sale could be achieved. Nor do I consider that the decision reflected a conflict between prudential and conduct of business objectives, a suggestion that is based on a misunderstanding of the nature of prudential regulation. However, the regulators proceeded on an assumption that if anyone were disadvantaged by a decision not to close the Society, compensation would be available. No legal assurance was sought that this would be so, and there was no examination of the legal issues involved. There was no recognition recorded that if compensation claims were sustained, those claims would be at the expense of the with profits fund, nor any attempt to quantify the risks to which potential policyholders were exposed relative to the benefit claimed by management for continuing to trade. No consideration was given to measures that might have mitigated the potential for subsequent claims of misrepresentation. The Society was permitted to continue its advertising, and so those taking new or further policies with the Society did so by invitation and not as mere volunteers without the risks of doing so being made known to them. In the course of maxwellisation it has been represented that criticism of regulators' actions and decisions relating to product sales fails to give adequate weight to FSA's power to require a scheme under which affected policyholders would be compensated without need for litigation. This misses the point that steps could have been taken to protect late joiners in advance. The Society required them to disclaim any potential benefit