and the forest fires in Greece. A vote on a resolution on natural disasters took place on Tuesday, 4 September. The President also mentioned the 500 victims of the earthquake in Peru on 15 August, the thousands of deaths from the violence in Iraq and the many refugees who risked their lives seeking to reach the EU via the Mediterranean and the Atlantic. The House observed a minute's silence in honour of the lives of all these people. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-COVER-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-002-EN DOC XML V0//EN Institutions President of Portugal stresses solidarity as key European value 2007-09-10 - 13:45 The President of Portugal, Aníbal Cavaco Silva, gave an address to the House in which he focused above all on the theme of solidarity "as a fundamental pillar of European integration". Introducing Mr Cavaco Silva, Parliament's President Hans-Gert Pöttering said that previous Portuguese presidencies had been particularly "ambitious" in their scope and also that Portugal's history gave it a special position: When Lisbon had sent ships to all corners of the world starting in the 14th century, this had marked "the dawn of globalisation". Mr Pöttering also highlighted Portugal's "culture of tolerance and global thinking". Reform Treaty The Portuguese President told the House that one of the priorities of his country's EU presidency over the coming months would be to finalise the Reform Treaty based on the compromise reached at the European Council in June". He hoped this would "overcome a period of erosion of the European integration process". Solidarity highlighted Once the treaty was concluded, said Mr Cavaco Silva, the EU must concentrate on the challenges that worry European citizens: economic growth, employment, security, the environment, energy and globalisation. He then turned to the central theme of his speech - solidarity - quoting from the Schumann Declaration of 1950: “Europe … will be built through concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity” and adding "To be a real Union we must preserve the feeling of community that was, and not by chance, the original designation of European integration". Seeing poverty and social exclusion as crucial problems, he told the House "The principle of solidarity includes an ethical and moral idea of progress, for without it the founding values of the European idea will fade". As President of Portugal, he had highlighted social inclusion as a top priority for his country. But, he added, "it is also true that Europe as a whole is also some way short of the social cohesion objectives that it aims to achieve and that it cannot forsake". He pointed out "In the five-year period between 2001 and 2005, the risk-of-poverty rate in the countries of the Union stood at 16%". Moreover, "a more detailed look at these indicators shows that the old, the unemployed, particularly the long term unemployed, isolated persons and lone-parent families are the social groups facing the greatest risk of poverty and material deprivation". What