Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (5 November 2008) In line with the authorisation Council Decision authorising the Commission to conduct negotiations with a view to conclusion of agreements between European Community and third countries on sanitary and phytosanitary measures, adopted at the 1829th Agriculture Council meeting, Brussels, 20, 21 and 22 February 1995. it received from the Council in 1995 to negotiate agreements with third countries in the field of sanitary and phytosanitary measures, the European Commission is working, and will continue to work, with international trading partners to build a common understanding on the development and implementation of mutually agreed animal welfare standards. In this context, the Commission has repeatedly raised animal welfare concerns in its bilateral negotiations, and intends to promote animal welfare by including specific provisions in sanitary and phytosanitary standards (SPS) parts of free trade agreements with third countries currently negotiated or to be negotiated Beyond this, the Commission takes every opportunity to raise and to promote improved animal welfare standards at European and international levels. In particular, the Commission has been actively engaged with the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) in Paris in developing international standards on animal welfare, as well as in organising seminars, conferences and workshops. In November 2006 the Commission, jointly with the OIE and the Council of Europe, organised a specific workshop Joint EU‑OIE-CoE Workshop on ‘Animal Welfare in Europe: achievements and future prospects’. http://ec.europa.eu/food/animal/welfare/international/index_en.htm where officials from 50 European countries discussed possible ways to implement animal welfare standards. In 2008 the Community financed the organisation of workshops on the implementation of OIE animal welfare standards in countries outside the EU. In particular one OIE workshop was organised for the Region of Americas last August, and a future event is envisaged for the African, Caribbean and Pacific countries. Furthermore, the Community is actively supporting and financially contributing to the organisation of the Second OIE Global Conference on Animal Welfare ‘Putting the Standards to Work’ http://www.oie.int/eng/AW2008/home.htm in Cairo. Through the Commission's Technical Assistance and Information Exchange Instrument (TAIEX), and with the ‘Better Training for Safer Food’ http://ec.europa.eu/food/training_strategy/intro_en.htm initiative, similar activities are ongoing in order to improve animal welfare knowledge in particular in Third Countries. The ‘International Forum on Global Aspects of Farm Animal Welfare’ http://www.animalwelfareandtrade.com/programmes.php in April 2008, together with the ‘Conference on Global Trade and Farm Animal Welfare’ planned in January 2009 constitute an important opportunity to consolidate vision and objectives at international level to promote welfare standards and their integration in relation to trade activities.