to the budgetary principles of transparency and budget accuracy. Accordingly, the Council states that the need for a negative reserve must be re-examined at some point in the future on the basis of Article 184." 7. Re Article 49 7. " The Commission undertakes to include in the Regulation laying down the rules for implementing the Financial Regulation the total amounts currently given in points 37(a)(i) and (ii) of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure. If the above Interinstitutional Agreement is revised, the Commission undertakes to amend accordingly the implementing rules either to include the new total amounts agreed on by the three Institutions in the new Interinstitutional Agreement or, if the latter no longer provides for such amounts, to delete them." 8. Re Article 50 8. " The Commission would point out that, under Article 173 of the Financial Regulation and Article 6(3) of the Commission Decision of 28 April 1999 establishing OLAF, the Director of OLAF is automatically designated as the delegated authorising officer for implementation of the appropriations devoted to the fight against fraud." 9. Re Article 54 9. " The Commission states that the condition laid down in Article 54(2)(c)(i) and (ii) will be applied only for new proposals for programmes or actions submitted to the Council and the Parliament after the Financial Regulation comes into force." 10. "With reference to Article 54(2)(c), the Commission already delegates tasks involved in the administration of education, training and youth programmes to national public-service bodies, in accordance with the basic acts establishing programmes. In the case of external aid, the main responsibilities will continue to lie with the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (Aidco). The Commission has no immediate plans to make use of national bodies for the administration of external relations programmes. However, should the Commission intend to delegate such administrative tasks to a national body in the case of external aid, conditions of transparency and non-discrimination in the choice of the body and in its operation, as set out in the implementing rules for the Regulation, will be strictly observed. In applying the selection criteria, the Commission will have regard in particular to the urgency of situations and the degree of involvement and know-how of national bodies in the non-member countries concerned. In its annual reports on assistance to non-member countries, the Commission will give an account of the way in which any delegation of tasks to national bodies is carried out." 11. Re Article 59 11. " The Commission acts collectively in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. Without prejudice to the principle of the collegiality of the Commission, where a Commissioner is in charge of special fields of activity, he is specifically responsible for the preparation of Commission work and for the implementation of its decisions in those fields." 12. Re Article 85 12. " The Commission undertakes to make a report by 1 January 2006 on the application of the provisions of the new Financial Regulation and, in particular, on the discontinuation of centralised ex ante controls, and,