and demonstration activities under the sixth framework programme. Article 8 Funding 1. The financial framework for the implementation of the programme for the period specified in Article 1 is hereby set at EUR 44 million. 2. Annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limit of the financial perspective. Article 9 Budget distribution Budgetary distribution between the actions shall be as follows: a) e-learning for promoting digital literacy: around 10% of total budget; (b) European virtual campuses: around 30% of total budget; c) e-twinning of schools in Europe and promotion of teacher training: around 45% of total budget; (d) Transversal actions and monitoring of e Learning action plan: maximum 7,5% of total budget; (e) Technical and administrative assistance: maximum 7,5% of total budget. Article 10 Participation of candidate countries for accession to the European Union and EEA-EFTA States The conditions and detailed rules for the participation of candidate countries for accession to the European Union and EEA-EFTA States in the programme shall be established in accordance with the relevant provisions of the instruments governing the relations between the Community and these countries. Article 11 Cooperation with third countries On the initiative of the Commission, experts from third countries other than those referred to in Article 10 may be invited to participate in conferences and meetings with the exception of meetings of the Committee referred to in Article 6. The funds allocated for the reimbursement of travel and subsistence expenses, under the applicable Commission regulations, shall not exceed 0,5 % of the programme's total budget. Article 12 Monitoring and evaluation 1. The Commission shall regularly monitor the programme in cooperation with the Member States. This monitoring shall include the report referred to in paragraph 2 and specific activities. 2. The Commission shall ensure external evaluation of the programme at the moment of its completion. This evaluation is intended to assess the relevance, effectiveness and impact of the different actions, and it shall also consider the overall impact of the programme. Special attention shall be paid to social cohesion issues and to equal opportunities issues. This evaluation shall also examine the complementarity between action under the programme and that pursued under other relevant Community policies, instruments and actions. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions an ex-post evaluation report by the end of 2007. Article 13 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Done at Brussels, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX 1. ACTION LINES The action lines are a means to implement the general objective of the programme: to foster the development and appropriate use of e- learning in Europe, and to accompany Member States' efforts in this field. They are structured according to the four areas of intervention of the programme. Action Line 1"Promotin g digital literacy" Action in this field must cover both conceptual and practical issues, from