Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (17 January 2007) The Commission considers that the 25 % reduction target should be a common target for both the Member States and the Commission. The reduction of administrative burdens will be calculated by taking into account both efforts at Member States and Community level. The Commission's strategy takes into account different national realities. Member States will be delivering on administrative costs from different starting points. Some have already carried out full baseline measurements and are currently cutting 25 % of their administrative burdens. Others have recently launched measurements while others still, are in earlier phases of measurement projects. Consequently, differential targets could clearly be envisaged. In particular targets may differ between Member States, depending on regulatory traditions. They may also differ for policy sectors, and individual pieces of legislation, depending on regulatory intensity and eligibility for administrative simplification. The planned measurement exercise will shed light on all these factors and allow the setting of specific burden reduction targets. In its annual progress report on the renewed Lisbon Strategy to the 2007 Spring European Council COM(2006)816 final. the Commission asks the European Council to endorse an overall 25 % target and commit Member States to take action in reducing administrative burdens produced by national and regional legislation. The Commission will in this context develop proposals to reduce administrative burdens at Community level and there is, therefore, no risk that delays in certain Member States would slow down the Commission’s efforts to address burdens associated with EU legislation. The Commission is launching a wide reaching initiative to reduce administrative burdens deriving from EC legislation and national implementation measures. An action programme will be presented in January 2007. It should not, however, be forgotten that according to the baseline measurements carried out to this day, administrative burdens deriving from EC legislation and implementation measures account for approximately 40 % of the administrative burdens imposed on business. Hence national regulations not associated with EU legislation generate some 60 % of total burdens and will have to be addressed by Member States. The Commission recognises that there are Member States that may need support in launching national actions to reduce burdens. For this reason it will offer some practical solution in helping these Member States with their measurement exercise.