of Quaestors. 2. Any Member may add his signature to a declaration included in the register. 3. Where a declaration is signed by the majority of Parliament's component Members, the President shall notify Parliament accordingly and publish the names of the signatories in the minutes. 4. Such a declaration shall, at the end of the part-session, be forwarded to the institutions named therein together with the names of the signatories. It shall be included in the minutes of the sitting at which it is announced. Publication in the minutes shall close the procedure. 5. A written declaration that has stood in the register for over three months and has not been signed by at least one half of the component Members of Parliament shall lapse. Rule 117 Consultation of the European Economic and Social Committee 1. A committee may request that the European Economic and Social Committee be consulted on matters of a general nature or on specific points. The committee shall indicate the deadline for the European Economic and Social Committee to deliver its opinion. 2. A request for consultation of the European Economic and Social Committee shall be approved by Parliament without debate. Rule 118 Consultation of the Committee of the Regions 1. A committee may request that the Committee of the Regions be consulted on matters of a general nature or on specific points. The committee shall indicate the deadline for the Committee of the Regions to deliver its opinion. 2. A request for consultation of the Committee of the Regions shall be approved by Parliament without debate. Rule 119 Requests to European Agencies 1. Where Parliament has a right to submit a request to a European Agency, any Member may submit such a request in writing to the President of Parliament. Such requests shall be on matters falling within the mission of the Agency concerned and shall be accompanied by background information explaining the issue and the Community interest. 2. The President shall, after consulting the committee responsible, either forward the request to the Agency or take any other appropriate course of action. The Member submitting the request shall be immediately informed thereof. Any request sent by the President to an Agency shall include a time limit for response. 3. If the Agency considers that it is unable to respond to the request as formulated, or seeks to have it modified, it shall inform the President forthwith, who shall take any appropriate action, after consulting the committee responsible as necessary. CHAPTER 6 INTERINSTITUTIONAL AGREEMENTS Rule 120 Interinstitutional agreements 1. Parliament may enter into agreements with other institutions in the context of the application of the Treaties or in order to improve or clarify procedures. Such agreements may take the form of joint declarations, exchanges of letters or codes of conduct or other appropriate instruments. They shall be signed by the President after examination by the committee responsible for constitutional affairs and after approval by Parliament. They may be annexed to the Rules of Procedure for information. 2. Where such agreements imply the modification of existing procedural rights or