14 September 1999 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Watson on behalf of the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the extraordinary European Council meeting on the area of freedom, security and justice (Tampere, 15/16 October 1999) Resolution on the extraordinary European Council meeting on the area of freedom, security and justice (Tampere, 15/16 October 1999) The European Parliament, - having regard to the EU and EC Treaties, and in particular the provisions regarding the development of the Union as an area of freedom, security and justice (AFSJ), - having regard to its previous resolutions on this subject OJ C 219, 30.7.1999, p. 5.OJ C 175, 21.6.1999, p. 4.OJ C 219, 30.7.1999, p. 6.OJ C 219, 30.7.1999, p. 5.. , A. convinced that after the establishment of the internal market and the single currency, the launch of a European social policy and the appointment of the High Representative for the CFSP, the creation of the AFSJ presents one of the greatest challenges in this parliamentary term for the Heads of State or Government and for the European Parliament, B. convinced that the citizens of the Union are now tired of declarations and statements, are aware of the fact that individual Member States acting alone cannot guarantee them the protection they require against the threats posed by international crime, or the safeguarding of their civil liberties in other Member States of the Union, are disappointed by the shortcomings of intergovernmental cooperation and, after three revisions of the Treaties in the past ten years, expect the Union to respond to their concerns effectively, C. whereas among the fundamental rights recognised by the Treaty of Amsterdam are the citizens’ right to security and justice, and whereas the credibility of the EU institutions and the Member States that have subscribed to the AFSJ objective is now at stake, D. noting the statements by the Council and Commission concerning the preparation of the forthcoming extraordinary European Council meeting on this matter to be held on 15‑16 October 1999 in Tampere, 1. Believes that implementation of the AFSJ must seek not only to guarantee the security of persons, but also to foster individual rights, fundamental freedoms, and democratic safeguards, displaying open-mindedness and a spirit of tolerance; calls, therefore, for particular emphasis to be laid on implementation of the AFSJ in such a way as to: - refrain from infringing the rights of the European Parliament, - recognise the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice, - involve NGOs and civil society, - proceed in a spirit of transparency, - seek to foster the protection of democratic safeguards and privacy; 2. Calls on the European Council to take full responsibility in Tampere for the creation of the AFSJ and to define its position with regard to the key aspects of such an undertaking, both in respect of the amendments to the treaties in preparation for enlargement and implementation of the provisions of the existing treaties; recommends, with a