targets or financial commitments, G. whereas the countries most affected by HIV and AIDS will fail to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and will continue to weaken, potentially threatening social stability, H. whereas the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria ("the Global Fund"), set up in January 2002, has shown impressive results to date, with more than 540 000 people living with HIV now having access to life-saving antiretroviral treatment through programmes the Fund is financing, I. whereas the Doha Declaration placed the protection of public health above the protection of private commercial interests and confirmed the right of developing countries to use TRIPS Agreement safeguards, such as compulsory licences, to overcome patents when necessary in order to protect public health and promote access to medicines for all, J. whereas the current pricing system based on companies giving voluntary discounts on medicines to developing countries does not guarantee the affordability of medicines, with some single-source drugs being too expensive even with a discount, some discounts not being available because manufacturers have not registered or are not marketing their drugs in certain countries, and some companies not offering discounts at all to middle-income countries, 1. Welcomes the commitment to a massive scale-up of HIV prevention, treatment and care, with the aim of coming as close as possible to the goal of universal access to treatment by 2010 for all who need it, made at the 2005 meeting of the G8 nations and the September 2005 United Nations World Summit by world leaders and reconfirmed at the 2006 High-Level meeting on AIDS; 2. Welcomes the UNGASS declaration of 2 June 2006, in particular its references to promoting access to medicines for all, which includes production of generic antiretroviral drugs and other essential drugs for AIDS-related infections; 3. Regrets, nevertheless, that the declaration lacks any global targets or timelines on treatment, resources and prevention, and does not provide a viable action plan to back up the goal of providing universal access for all HIV-affected people by 2010; 4. Calls on the international community to deliver on its promises during the Toronto Conference in August, and calls on the Commission and Member States to ensure that health spending in developing countries reaches levels commensurate with the political commitments made; 5. Expresses grave concern at the fact that half of all new HIV infections occur among children and young people; 6. Expresses disappointment at the fact that, although a large number of infections occur due to the sharing of drug abuse needles, there are still no effective programmes in operation for providing clean needles to drug addicts in many countries, including Member States; 7. Calls for measures to be taken to reduce the level of needlestick and medical sharp injuries received by health-care workers; 8. Stresses that, in order to effectively halt and reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS, it is essential to target key vulnerable groups with specific measures; 9. Remains deeply concerned by the overall expansion and feminisation of the pandemic and the fact that women now represent 50% of people living with