WRITTEN QUESTION E-1002/08 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (27 February 2008) Subject: Opportunities for major improvements in the railways of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia by the purchase of diesel train units from the Netherlands 1. Is the Commission aware that rail traffic within the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has dropped significantly since independence owing to high unemployment, limited maintenance of the rail network and rolling stock, lack of financial scope for investments in modernisation and new purchases, and the inefficient use of the available heavy electric and diesel locomotives to pull only one or two coaches? 2. Is the Commission aware that, owing to this state of affairs, and following a complete interruption of rail traffic, there are now only a few early and late passenger services running on the Skopje-Tetovo-Kičevo and Skopje-Veles-Kočani lines, while the main Skopje-Veles-Bitola service has been cut considerably and, since 9 December 2007 on the Kumanovo-Skopje-Veles-Demir Kapija-Gevgelija international main line, the service has been restricted to three daily cross-border connections with Serbia and one with Greece? 3. Does the Commission consider it desirable that this candidate state for EU membership should be enabled to retain its railway system not only for goods transport but also for passenger traffic, and to prevent a situation where public provision for home-to-work and long-distance connections is entirely given over to competing bus services? 4. Is the Commission aware that the national railway company MŽ is interested in used diesel material from the Netherlands, including five 3-section diesel-electric train units, some of which are currently standing unused in Slovakia (bodywork from 1963, fully overhauled 2003, low-maintenance) and one- or two-coach diesel-hydraulic train units on a German model (constructed 1980, complex maintenance can be carried out in Skopje), or the units known as ‘Wadlopers’ which used to run on branch lines in the Northern Netherlands? 5. Is the Commission aware that the Diesel‑3 train units could very well be used on a horseshoe-shaped through main line on the Bitola-Prilep-Veles-Skopje-Tetovo-Gostivar-Kičevo route and the Wadlopers on the less heavily used branch lines to Kočani and possibly the Kosovo capital of Priština, and that these would cost only a few million euro to purchase from an Irish subsidiary of the Dutch railways? 6. Is the Commission prepared, in dialogue with all those involved in the Netherlands and Macedonia, to help make such an improvement project possible in the short term and give it a good start?