Question for written answer E-4398/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Salvatore Tatarella (PPE) (16 June 2010) Subject: European health card It is now possible to produce a European health card, called a Life Card, which, in addition to personal data of a general nature, can memorise health information relating to the holder, such as hospital files, details of diseases, allergies, and intolerance to medicines, and so forth. The introduction of this card could revolutionise state health services and bring numerous benefits to the extent that it would simplify the administrative procedures for obtaining health records from hospitals and health district offices, cut waiting time, do away with paper documents, and reduce costs. Given that it would contain a patient’s medical history and every type of health information, the card would ensure that prompt, effective action could be taken even in a very serious emergency, and would enable medical staff to opt for the most appropriate procedures, avoiding needless tests or the use of contra-indicated drugs. The card would thus be a wonderful life-saver, even in the highest priority emergency cases. The card is a pocket database with an identification number; it can be connected to any computer and is able to accept updates from a host system. The Life Card should not be confused with other national health cards that serve solely to facilitate the reimbursement of medical expenses incurred outside a patient’s home country. The right of data confidentiality can be safeguarded by means of the appropriate techniques. The United States has recently adopted a bold reform of its health care system. This is the most suitable moment for Europe to adopt a procedure that could bring effective improvements to the European health sector. In the light of the foregoing, will the Commission promote a directive calling for every European citizen to have a Life Card, so as to make the European health sector more uniform and efficient, and in that way ensure that all European citizens, wherever they may be, will be able to get the right care at the right time?