Parliament, the Council and the Commission, adopted during the conciliation meeting on 17 July 2008, has confirmed the importance of ensuring a rapid procedure with due respect of the Interinstitutional Agreement for the adoption of decisions on the mobilisation of the Fund. ANNEX: LETTER OF THE COMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS ES/sg D(2010)27788 M. Alain Lamassoure President of the Committee on budgets ASP 13E158 Subject: Opinion on the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) for the case EGF/2009/012 IE/ Waterford Crystal , Ireland (COM(2010)196 final) Dear Mr Lamassoure, The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs (EMPL) as well as its Working Group on the EGF examined the mobilisation of the EGF for the case EGF/2009/012 IE/Waterford Crystal, Ireland and adopted the following opinion. The EMPL committee and the Working Group on the EGF are in favour of the mobilisation of the Fund concerning this request. In this respect, the EMPL committee presents some remarks without, however, putting into question the transfer of the payments. The deliberations of the EMPL committee are based on the following considerations: a) Whereas the Waterford Crystal/Wedgewood group was placed into receivership in January 2009 and consequently purchased by the private equity fund KPS Capital Partners LP, followed by the closure of the manufacture in Waterford; b) Whereas, the Irish authorities argue in the application that the enterprise was severely hit by the global financial crisis in October 2008 while it was in the process of restructuring its debt and that they believe that, without the difficulties in getting access to additional funding, Waterford Crystal would have been able to restructure its debt and continue its activities while focusing on its core products building on its investments in new products and the outsourcing of production to lower-cost countries. c) Whereas more than 72% of the dismissed workers are over 45 years of age and have never worked in any company other than Waterford Crystal. d) Whereas the Ministry for Education and Skills is now responsible for the EGF applications within the Irish government. e) Whereas the EMPL committee needs to be fully informed about how the Member States make use of the EGF with a view to the future development of the fund and is, therefore, in need of comprehensive information about the complementarity of EGF and ESF in particular and other Structural Funds in general. f) Whereas the Waterford Wedgewood Group had dependencies in other EU Member States. g) Whereas measures to enhance entrepreneurship are very important as they offer real chances for a new professional future of workers made redundant and as they are basis for the creation of new employment opportunities in general. Therefore, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs calls on the Committee on Budgets, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution concerning the Irish application: 1. Welcomes the detailed and target package of personalized services aimed at re-integrating the workers into the labour market in an area particularly vulnerable to an economic downturn. 2. Welcomes that the time of unemployment will