by the Commission Amendment 3a. The notification of the offence shall notify the holder that his or her personal data shall be treated in accordance with the provisions of Directive 95/46/EC and shall point out his or her rights as regards access, correction and deletion, as referred to in Article 7. Justification A reference to the holder's personal data protection rights, as safeguarded by Directive 95/46/EC must feature in the notification of the offence addressed to him or her. Amendment 25 Proposal for a directive Article 5 – paragraph 3 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3b . Should the holder not have been the driver at the time when the offence was committed, he or she shall supply the details of the identity of the driver in compliance with the law of the State of residence. This shall not apply where there is an agreement between two or more Member States aimed at dealing with problems arising from the implementation of this article. Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The offence notification shall be communicated to the holder in the official language or languages of the State of residence, as specified by this State. (Does not affect English version.) Justification (Does not affect English version.) Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. The Commission may adapt the model offence notification in order to take account of technical developments. Those measures designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 8(3). 5. The Commission may adapt the model offence notification in order to take account of technical developments. Those measures designed to amend non-essential technical elements of this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 8(3). Justification Amendments to the model offence notification by the comitology procedure must remain technical in character and not modify the elements enabling the holder to be provided with better information, for example as regards personal data protection. Amendment 28 Proposal for a directive Article 5 – paragraph 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5a. No penalty shall be issued in respect of an offence committed before the date of entry into force of this Directive. Amendment 29 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 5 a Follow-up of road traffic infringements 1. Where the financial penalty has not be en paid and the procedures to be followed in the case of a dispute or appeal have been exhausted, F ramework D ecision 2005/214/JHA shall apply as regards the sanctions referred to in Article 1 of that F ramework D ecision. 2. In cases of non-re s p onse referred to in paragraph 1, but in respect of penalties which do not fall within the scope of that F ramework D ecision , the competent authority of the