it appears that, at the time the standstill clause entered into force for them, 16 Member States required a visa from all Turkish nationals; they are therefore not affected by the Soysal ruling. Out of the 11 other Member States that did in principle exempt Turkish citizens from the visa obligation at the relevant dates, seven of them did require a visa from Turkish citizens that came to their territory in order to carry out a paid activity or pursue a professional activity there. Therefore, it appears that the exemption from the visa requirement only benefits, under certain circumstances, Turkish nationals travelling to some Schengen countries (i.e. Germany and Denmark), as well as to the United Kingdom and Ireland, in order to provide services there. In order to clarify the implications of the Soysal ruling, the Commission has prepared ‘Guidelines on the movement of Turkish nationals crossing the external borders of EU Member States in order to provide services within the EU’, which are to be inserted as update of the Commission Recommendation of 6 November 2006 establishing a common ‘Practical Handbook for Border Guards (Schengen Handbook)’ COM(2006)5186 final. to be used by Member States' competent authorities when carrying out the border control of persons and will soon be adopted. This document is primarily addressed to Member States' border guards, and it would also be of help to Member States' consulates in responding to enquiries on the effects of the Court of Justice's ruling of 19 February 2009. The guidelines are currently in the process of formal adoption. Prior to this, they have been shared and discussed with the Member States and Turkey. Turkey does not apply a uniform policy towards all EU citizens as regards the visa obligation. Currently, citizens of 15 EU Member States are required to hold a visa to enter Turkey. This visa can be obtained at the Turkish borders and, depending on the nationality of the applicant, will be valid for a duration of one to three months, and for one or several entries. Citizens of the other 12 Member States are exempted from the visa obligation for a short stay of up to 90 days. The Soysal ruling has no impact on the future of the accession negotiations, which are based on Turkey's progress in meeting the requirements for membership.