WRITTEN QUESTION E-0670/08 by Dorette Corbey (PSE) to the Commission (12 February 2008) Subject: Fisheries agreements Through fisheries agreements the European Union obtains the right for European fishers to fish in a large number of waters outside Europe. Since 1979 agreements have been concluded with African countries. These fisheries agreements are controversial from the point of view of sustainability: fish stocks in African waters have drastically declined. In response to this criticism greater account of sustainability has been taken in fishing agreements in recent years (‘responsible fisheries’). Part of the proceeds from fishing rights must benefit the development of local fisheries and the promotion of local know-how. The monitoring and management of fish stocks are regarded as a task for the African government that signs the agreement. But the criticism continues (see New York Times article, 14 January 2008). 1. Can the Commission confirm that a fisheries agreement has been concluded with Guinea Bissau although that country’s government was known not to have a single patrol boat available for its use? 2. Senegalese and Mauritanian fish stocks have declined so greatly that local people no longer have any fish to eat and local fishers can no longer use their boats for fishing. Can the Commission confirm that in recent and future agreements with African countries the management of fish stocks is a joint responsibility? Can the Commission also guarantee that the share of the proceeds from fisheries agreements that is required to benefit the local community is spent correctly in the case of the African countries? 3. Fisheries agreements are based on the notion that the commercial interests of European fishermen need not obstruct the sustainability of fisheries in African waters because the fishing is for surplus stocks. Is that notion still tenable? If so, can the Commission confirm that the surplus is established by an independent institute? 4. Is the Commission prepared to consider (1) transferring responsibility for fisheries agreements from the DG for Fisheries to the DG for Development, (2) basing such agreements solely on the support of sustainable fisheries and strengthening of local or regional fishing communities, and (3) thus dissociating itself from the commercial interests of the European fisheries sector when concluding agreements?