(suplicatoire) was submitted by the Prague Public Prosecutor to the President of Parliament. Pursuant to Rule 7(7) the Committee on Legal Affairs considered that the Prague Public Prosecutor was the appropriate authority to submit the application. The Metropolitan Prosecuting Attorney's Office is requesting the waiver of parliamentary immunity in respect of the above-mentioned file on the ground that Dr Zelezný is believed to have committed acts constituting fraud on a creditor in 1999 and 2000. He is believed to "have committed the criminal acts jointly with other persons with the intention of frustrating satisfaction of a claim of CME Media Enterprises B.V." The application explains in detail the acts which have given rise to the prosecution in question and relate to Section 256 (1), item c), 256 (4) of the Criminal Code of the Czech Republic or an attempt to commit such crime under Section 8(1) of the Criminal Code. The application explains in detail the circumstances of Dr Zelezný's prosecution (Notice to Members 1/ 2005 ) . In the application it is stressed that, in November 2002, during the criminal prosecution, Dr. Vladimir Zelezný was elected a Senator of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Following the request of the police in charge of the investigation, the Senate granted its consent to the criminal prosecution of Dr Zelezný in January 2003. Pursuant to Rule 7(3) of the Rules of Procedure, Dr Zelezný was heard by the Committee on Legal Affairs. At this hearing Dr Zelezný informed the committee of his views on the situation in his country with respect to him. He also delivered a written declaration translated into English with numerous annexes and exhibits. Dr Zelezný has acknowledged that when he was Senator, a request to waive his parliamentary immunity was presented by the police and that he asked the Senate to waive his immunity on the hope that it would accelerate the investigation procedure. The Senate waived the parliamentary immunity of Mr Zelezný apparently for the same acts as those considered at the present request. At his appearance, Dr Zelezný declared that he had been a victim of political harassment and public intimidation for the last six years. He also mentioned two of the cases that the police is currently investigating (the first of them is dealt with in this report). Dr Zelezný asserts that the three cases are linked (the other two cases are dealt with in two other reports) between them. In his written declaration, Dr. Zelezný points out that the police investigation on him has been purposely protracted for years and years to keep opponents away from fair political competition. Dr. Zelezný claims also that the cases against him are without ground and artificially perpetuated with a view to damaging his political career. The Minister of Justice, in reply to the questions submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs, explains most of the observations made by Dr Zelezný and expressed its conviction that the bodies active in criminal proceedings conducted against Dr Zelezný have acted in accordance with the law and have in