of my life ". III. Complaints to the UK regulators and official investigations 1. Complaints to the FSA After the events at ELAS, there has been continuing outrage and demand from the policyholders for explanation and redress. According to EMAG's petition to the European Parliament (WE 14 Page 28. ), many of them complained directly to the UK regulatory authority in the form of FSA (Financial Services Authority). EMAG says that the FSA rejected all complaints (WE 14 Page 28. ). The FSA's representatives before the committee did not make any specific comments on the treatment by FSA of policyholders' complaints (H4) but rather referred to the UK Financial Ombudsman as the competent body for dealing with such complaints. Mr STRACHAN (H4) only noted in general that " we sympathise with the position of policyholders and understand the strength of feeling that has led them to make a series of complaints but we consider that these complaints reflect a misunderstanding of what regulators could or should have achieved in a case such as Equitable Life ". He added that " a regulatory system neither can nor should aim at avoiding all failures ". WE 32 and WE 37 outline the FSA's regulatory objectives according to Section 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Hence, the FSA is responsible, among other things, for preserving both market confidence and consumer protection. Some policyholders have expressed dissatisfaction with the way in which FSA has pursued the latter objective with regard to Equitable Life and put forward the strong allegation that the FSA has tried to obstruct policyholders from getting redress and failed in its role to protect consumers. EMAG claims in WE 44 that " the FSA is compromised in respect of investor protection because its annual running cost ... is funded by the industry " and calls it " a body with monopolistic control over consumer protection, whilst being in thrall to its industry paymasters ". Specifically, EMAG alleges that FSA had failed to impose a generic approach to compensating aggrieved investors. It even accused the FSA of having " orchestrated a cover-up " in order to avoid compensation payouts: " There has been systematic foreclosure of any effective means of redress " (WE 44). Naturally, the FSA strongly rejected these allegations (see WE 37): " I am aware that the point has been made to this committee that, because it is funded by the industry, the FSA is somehow "in the pocket" of the firms it regulates. I wish to place on record to this committee that such concerns are entirely misplaced. We are a statutory regulator established by Parliament; ... Regulated firms across all financial sectors must pay for the costs of regulation. Our fee-raising powers are statutory and our fees are levied compulsorily on each of the 33,000 or more firms we regulate according to a series of objective formulae and measures. The FSA staff who supervise firms have no policy or operational involvement in the fee-levying process, which is managed by a separate organisational function within FSA with