the time being. Not because the proposal for the Decision would be perfect, but because your rapporteur finds himself in a very difficult position. Firstly, from procedural point of view, adoption of a report with amendments might turn out to be impossible under the current timetable and could thus mean no transfer of funds to the Georgia's budget in 2009. Secondly, this "procedural reality" does not mean that your rapporteur would fully agree with the proposal. For example, your rapporteur cannot agree with the statement that " the Treaty does not provide for the adoption of this Decision powers other than those of Article 308 " (recital 10). The reason for using Article 308 and not Article 181a is not in the Treaty, but in Declaration No. 10 attached to the Treaty of Nice, setting out that " balance ‑of ‑payments aid to third countries falls outside the scope of Article 181a ". The Parliament has already back in 2003 P5_TA(2003)0233 . referred to Article 308 as inadequate and expressed its regrets over the decision to include such a Declaration in the Treaty of Nice. It must be also said that the proposal is very general and most of the specific details are to be agreed in the Memorandum of Understanding. At the same time your rapporteur is of the opinion that several amendments might be necessary in order to improve the clarity, transparency and accountability of the proposal (in terms of conditionality, use of external auditors for independent assessment, specific requests to Georgian government etc), for example setting out that an independent ex post evaluation of the MFA to Georgia provided under Council Decision 2006/41/EC of 24 January 2006 should be completed before the start of implementation of new assistance under the current proposal. Namely, having regard to the Report of the Independent International Fact-Finding Mission on the Conflict in Georgia http://www.ceiig.ch/Report.html of September 2009 (Tagliavini Report), your rapporteur has concerns about EU budgetary assistance on one hand, and about the alleged increases of the Georgian 2008 defence budget on the other. However, the 2008 military conflict between Russia and Georgia has further increased the need for support in the priorities identified in the ENP Action Plan, and that means not only assistance for macro-financial stabilisation and economic rehabilitation and recovery, but also support for resettlement of internally displaced persons (IDPs), for democratic development, for peaceful settlement of Georgia's internal conflicts, etc. Therefore, Georgia needs our assistance but it is of utmost importance that the Commission includes adequate conditions in the Memorandum of Understanding and the Grant Agreement, ensuring that this assistance is really going to be used for what it is intended for and not for military purposes. And thirdly, it must be repeated once more that your rapporteur simply had very limited time to reflect on the actual proposal. Therefore, while entirely in agreement with the need to provide Georgia with exceptional MFA, your rapporteur had a difficult choice to make. Either to propose adopting the Parliament's opinion as soon as possible, in the interest of the needs of