investigate the complaint because the policy was not sold by a company established in the UK . As a result, the policyholder is left out with no access to an out-of-court dispute settlement system " (ES 3 Page 88. ). A similar note was struck by Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9), who referred to a specific case: " There was one person based in Germany who had bought one of these Equitable Life schemes and had lodged a complaint. Since she was in Germany , she first of all lodged a complaint with one of the many German ombudsmen. She was given a negative reply because that German ombudsman did not have jurisdiction. So she then turned to the Financial Services Ombudsman in the UK and was told that the Financial Services Ombudsman in the UK ... had no jurisdiction in this case [either]. This was obviously quite disturbing for us because it meant that our network had some gaps. This particular Equitable Life complaint lodged by this particular person, who then turned to the Commission, helped us to identify where we can improve our network ". Hence, according to Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9), the differences between FIN-NET member schemes in terms of competences and jurisdictions can lead to " situations in which a person [is] not in a position to get proper redress anywhere ". " We are aware of the problem and we do not claim by any means to have full coverage and a perfect network. There are still some gaps " (Mr DUCOULOMBIER). Similarly, ES 3 Page 87. concludes that " the varying structures and rules of jurisdiction of the national out-of-court systems may create loopholes that place cross-border consumers of financial products at a disadvantage vis-à-vis domestic consumers ". Mr MERRICKS strikes a similar note in WE 56: " It is noticeable that there are a number of gaps in provision of redress schemes in the different Member States. ... " Mr MEADE in WE 68 expresses the opinion that " FIN-NET is a very useful method for exchanging information and for ensuring that complaints can be dealt with on a European-wide basis ", but that it would " [suffer] from the situation that unlike in Ireland, and in the UK most of the Schemes are voluntary and therefore do not have the statutory powers of enforcement which the Irish and UK Schemes have ". " We are determined to address these gaps. They are unacceptable and it is unacceptable that there are situations in which the consumer is not getting out-of-court redress in financial services ", said Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9). Commissioner McCREEVY confirmed that " we are ... further developing the FIN-NET system " (H8). In concrete terms, the Commission is currently preparing a " questionnaire, which we will address to the Member States with a view to encouraging them to ensure that, within their respective territories, there are proper alternative dispute resolution schemes for financial services so that there will be no gaps, at least geographically speaking, between the Member States " (Mr DUCOULOMBIER, H9). This is confirmed