Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (17 November 2006) The Commission shares the Honourable Members' concerns regarding the risks of Endocrine Disrupting Substances (EDS) such as the polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs). In this context we would like to draw your attention to the Community strategy for endocrine disrupters COM(1999)706 final. , adopted in December 1999. This strategy further develops the Commission’s policy of 1996 on the use and regulation of suspected endocrine disrupting substances (EDS) and addresses key elements such as: further development of knowledge and research on EDS, international cooperation, public communication and appropriate policy reaction. Within this context, DDT, HCB and certain PBDEs (2,2',4,4'-TBDE, deca-BDE, octa-BDE, penta-BDE) were selected as EDS suspected substances and as priority substances for further evaluation. Some of these substances are already subject to controls today; the Commission has already banned penta-BDE and octa-BDE in 2003, and both DDT and HCB are severely restricted under the Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) Regulation (EC) No 850/2004/EC Regulation (EC) No 850/2004 of the Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on persistent organic pollutants and amending Directive 79/117/EEC, OJ L 158, 30.4.2004. . Furthermore, PBDEs are not allowed to be used in electrical and electronic equipment since 1 July 2006. In addition PFOS compounds, which the Honourable Members mention in the question, are the subject of a proposal for a directive of the Parliament and the Council for a ban with very limited exemptions that is currently going through the co-decision process. An assessment of PFOA is ongoing within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The Commission agrees that REACH will also be important in identifying and controlling such substances in the future. REACH is presently in second reading so changes are still expected. As the text reads now, it is foreseen that, during any registration of such substances, their manufacturer or importer will have to demonstrate that the uses of the substance are safe. This can then be checked by the authorities during dossier evaluation and if a substance is suspected of posing such a risk this can be further explored through substance evaluation. Substances of very high concern, such as endocrine disruptors, can also be subjected to authorisation; applicants will have to show that either the substance is being adequately controlled or otherwise they can demonstrate that there are no available alternatives and that the benefits of using the substance outweigh the risks. The Commission supported the Council's common position on REACH in first reading as a suitable balance between authorisation and registration. The Council strengthened the Commission's original proposal on authorisation by requiring case-by-case review periods to be set for each authorisation and requiring an analysis of substitutes to be submitted with all applications. As a result of the Community strategy for endocrine disrupters, the Commission took early actions to tackle this issue by funding a number of research projects on endocrine disrupters, with the total amount reaching approximately EUR 145 million today. These projects are presented at http://ec.europa.eu/research/endocrine/index_en.html. Among several projects studying health impacts