qualification and periodic training 5.1. The training centres taking part in the initial qualification and periodic training must be approved by the Member States' competent authorities. Approval may be given only in response to a written application. The application must be accompanied by documents including: 5.1.1. a suitable qualification and training programme specifying the subjects taught and setting out the proposed implementing plan and teaching methods; 5.1.2. the instructors' qualifications and fields of activity; 5.1.3. information about the premises where the courses are given, the teaching materials, the resources made available for the practical work, and the vehicle fleet used; 5.1.4. the conditions regarding participation in the courses (number of participants). 5.2. The competent authority must give approval in writing subject to the following conditions: 5.2.1. the training must be given in accordance with the documents accompanying the application; 5.2.2. the competent authority must be entitled to send authorised persons to assist in the training courses of the approved centres, and must be entitled to monitor such centres, with regard to the resources used and the proper running of the training courses and tests; 5.2.3. the approval may be withdrawn or suspended if the conditions of approval are no longer complied with. The approved centre must guarantee that the instructors have a sound knowledge of the most recent regulations and training requirements. As part of a specific selection procedure, the instructors must provide certification showing a knowledge of both the subject material and teaching methods. As regards the practical part of the training, instructors must provide certification of experience as professional drivers or similar driving experience, such as that of driving instructors for heavy vehicles. The programme of instruction must be in accordance with the approval and must cover the subjects in the list in section 1. ___________________ ANNEX II ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES MODEL FOR A DRIVER QUALIFICATION CARD 1. The physical characteristics of the card must comply with ISO standards 7810 and 7816-1. The methods for verifying the physical characteristics of the card to ensure that they are consistent with international standards must comply with ISO standard 10373. 2. The card has two sides: Side 1 contains: a) the heading "driver qualification card" printed in large type in the official language or languages of the Member State issuing the card; b) the name of the Member State issuing the card (optional); c) the distinguishing sign of the Member State issuing the card, printed in negative in a blue rectangle and encircled by twelve yellow stars; the distinguishing signs are as follows: B: Belgium L: Luxembourg DK: Denmark NL: The Netherlands D: Germany A: Austria GR: Greece P: Portugal E: Spain FIN: Finland F: France S: Sweden IRL: Ireland UK: United Kingdom I: Italy d) information specific to the card, numbered as follows: 1. surname of the holder; 2. first name of the holder; 3. date and place of birth of the holder; 4. (a) date of issue; b) date of expiry; c) the name of the issuing authority (may be printed on side 2); d) a different number from