allowed to disclose it, because it would contain information that is to be regarded as confidential under the EU Life Directive. The committee maintained its request in a subsequent letter to IFSRA. IFSRA replied, stating that " we will now conduct a review of the information contained on the files in our possession with a view to identifying any suitable correspondence relating to the period specified in your letter; permission must then be obtained from the UK authorities and Equitable Life prior to any disclosure " (see WE 80). Written evidence received by the committee See for instance WE 3. suggests that some Irish policyholders turned to IFSRA for redress. This is confirmed by Ms O'DEA in WE 80: " No complaints were received at that time [by IFSRA's predecessor]. However, in the period since our establishment, we have received a number of complaints after it became widely known that we were reviewing the matter. " Ms O'DEA did not specify how many complaints were received and which grievances these concerned. However, according to Ms O'DEA, the Irish regulator generally does not have the power to adjudicate on consumer complaints against a financial firm nor to award compensation to customers, since these powers have been vested in the Irish Financial Services Ombudsman (see below). The Irish regulator indicated that it has nevertheless sought to assist Irish policyholders. Firstly, Ms O'DEA indicated that IFSRA referred complainants to the voluntary Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland Scheme. Furthermore, at the request of the then Irish Minister for Enterprise Trade and Employment, IFSRA " undertook a review of matters raised by Irish policyholders in order to identify how their position could be improved " (Ms O'DEA, H4). The review did not identify any means of improving the situation of Irish policyholders. Mr TREACY (H4) stated that " we have tried essentially to provide as much information as we could: we made representations on policyholders' behalf and sought information from the various compensation schemes, the Society itself and the UK regulator and we passed on that information, where it was possible, to the policyholders both individually and by placing it on our website " (Mr TREACY, H4). He concluded that " our role ... has ... been limited to the provision of information and assistance in making contacts ". In this respect, the cooperation received from the UK authorities was good, according to Ms O'DEA (H4). Summarising, Ms O'DEA (H4) stressed that ISFRA " has made every effort ..., within the limits of [its] powers, to assist ... consumers affected in Ireland ". Many Irish policyholders, however, regarded the level of assistance provided by their national financial regulator as unsatisfactory (see in particular the completed questionnaires with annexes in WE-FILE 33 as well as Mr TROY, WE-FILE 4; Mr DUGGAN WE-FILE 14; Ms KNOWD, H2). German financial regulators In Germany, the 'Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht' (BaFin) took over responsibility from the 'Bundesaufsichtsamt für das Versicherungswesen' (BAV) in May 2002. Like the Irish regulators, Mr STEFFEN from BaFin stressed in H6 that financial supervision, including that of business carried on