Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. They strongly support the declaration of 19 May 2006 by the EU Presidency on behalf of the European Union regarding the recent arrests in Syria. They point out that respect for human rights constitutes a vital component in any future EU-Syria Association Agreement and call on Syria to respect its commitments within the framework of the Barcelona Process and along the lines of the European Neighbourhood Policy. Parliament reasserts the necessity for the Commission and the Council also to do their utmost to ensure that the Association Agreement with Syria, which has not yet been signed, leads to an improvement of human rights in Syria. Finally, MEPs call on the Commission to annually assess the human rights situation in Syria and its compliance with the obligations under the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement and to report its findings within the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership. North Korea On North Korea (the Democratic People's Republic of Korea - DPRK), Parliament deplores the lack of cooperation by the DPRK with international human rights institutions, and particularly its refusal to follow the procedures of the UN Commission on Human Rights. It calls on the government of North Korea to: abide by the principles set out in the international human rights treaties it has ratified (such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights) and incorporate these principles into domestic law; abolish the death penalty; release all people detained or imprisoned for the peaceful exercise of fundamental human rights; guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of movement for all North Koreans; review existing legislation to ensure that it conforms with international human rights standards, and introduce safeguards to provide citizens with protections and remedies against human rights violations. MEPs urge the DPRK government to provide information on the case of Mr Son Jong Nam and to stop his execution. They call on the Commission and the Council to do likewise. Parliament also calls on the North Korean authorities to review carefully the situation of all those condemned to death and to grant them a stay of execution, and calls for the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of Human Rights in North Korea, Professor Vitit Muntarbhorn, to be allowed to visit them. The resolution urges the government of the DPRK to end the severe human rights violations, including imprisonment and execution on account of religion or belief, against citizens not affiliated to the state-sponsored religious federations, and to allow religious believers to meet freely for worship, build and maintain places of worship and freely publish religious literature. Parliament recognises that the EU was the first and only party to engage in Human Rights Dialogues with the DPRK, which were discontinued in 2003. It urges both sides to endeavour to restart the dialogue on Human Rights between the EU and the DPRK. It calls on the government of the DPRK to fulfil its obligations under human rights instruments to which it is a party and ensure that humanitarian organisations, independent human rights monitors, the UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of