Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (14 February 2009) The violence that prevails in many parts of Iraq affects many Iraqi communities and continue to be of serious concern to the Commission. In this situation, persons belonging to minorities are particularly vulnerable. On 13 October 2008 the EU Presidency issued a statement, in which the EU condemns the acts of violence against Christian minorities, and this especially with regard to the latest events in Mosul. In the contacts with the Government of Iraq and other international actors the EU frequently voices its human rights concerns, including regarding rights of minorities, religious freedom and related intolerance and discrimination, and calls on the Iraqi authorities to comply with their commitments under international human rights law. It is clear that prolonged insecurity and instability continue to prevent effective governance in many parts of Iraq. That lack of effective governance serves to weaken the position of poorly-protected minorities. The Commission will therefore, within its institutional remit, continue to support the Government of Iraq and other actors in their efforts to achieve national reconciliation and establish effective governance. The Commission will also continue to raise the need to fight against all types of discrimination and to call on the Government of Iraq to make further efforts to fulfil its responsibility to protect all its citizens, notably the members of threatened minority groups. The Commission has since 2003 provided support to internally displaced persons and refugees with to date a total amount of EUR 140 million. Many of these displaced Iraqis belong to minority groups. The majority of the funding has been allocated this year and covers both humanitarian and reconstruction assistance, including the northern parts of Iraq to where many Iraqis including persons belonging to minority groups have fled. The assistance is provided based on the principles of non-discrimination and impartiality and the allocations are decided on the basis of need. The Commission does not target specific ethnic or religious communities. However, the Commission has funded, together with other donors, projects in areas with a large Christian population such as the Governorate of Ninewa. As part of one programme five schools in Ninewa were fully rehabilitated, including the upgrading of water and sanitation facilities there.