up the position, the appointee may be invited to appear before the committee responsible to make a statement and answer questions. 3. Within three months of the hearing, the committee may propose a recommendation pursuant to Rule 114 relating directly to the statement made and answers provided. 4. The Special Representative shall be invited to keep Parliament fully and regularly informed as to the practical implementation of his mandate. Rule 87 Statements by the High Representative for the common foreign and security policy and by other special representatives 1. The High Representative shall be invited to make statements in Parliament at least four times a year. Rule 103 shall apply. 2. The High Representative shall be invited at least four times a year to attend meetings of the committee responsible in order to make a statement and answer questions. The High Representative may also be invited on other occasions, whenever the committee considers this to be necessary, or at his initiative. 3. Whenever a special representative is appointed by the Council with a mandate in relation to particular policy issues, he may be invited to make a statement to the committee responsible, at Parliament's or at his initiative. Rule 88 International representation 1. Where a Head of a Commission external delegation is to be appointed, the nominee may be invited to appear before the relevant body of Parliament to make a statement and answer questions. 2. Within three months of the hearing provided for in paragraph 1, the committee responsible may adopt a resolution or make a recommendation, as appropriate, relating directly to the statement made and answers provided. Rule 89 Consultation of and provision of information to Parliament within the framework of the common foreign and security policy 1. Where Parliament is consulted pursuant to Article 21 of the EU Treaty, the matter shall be referred to the committee responsible which may make recommendations pursuant to Rule 90. 2. The committees concerned shall seek to ensure that the High Representative for the common foreign and security policy, the Council and the Commission provide them with regular and timely information on the development and implementation of the Union's common foreign and security policy, on the costs envisaged each time that a decision entailing expenditure is adopted under that policy and on any other financial considerations relating to the implementation of actions under that policy. Exceptionally, at the request of the Commission, the Council or the High Representative, a committee may decide to hold its proceedings in camera. 3. An annual debate shall be held on the consultative document established by the Council on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy, including the financial implications for the Union budget. The procedures laid down in Rule 103 shall apply. (See also interpretation under Rule 114.) 4. The Council and/or the High Representative and the Commission shall be invited to each plenary debate that involves either foreign, security or defence policy. Rule 90 Recommendations within the framework of the common foreign and security policy 1. The committee responsible for