Joint answer to Written Questions E-0503/99 and E-0634/99 given by Mr Pinheiro on behalf of the Commission (14 April 1999) The Union, including the Commission, has expressed to both governments its grave concern about this conflict and the fighting along the border. It has strongly called on both sides to cease all hostilities and stop the fighting. It has used all diplomatic means at its disposal to put the maximum of pressure on both parties. Démarches were organised both in Addis and in Asmara. Moreover the Union Presidency addressed strong letters to both governments and a number of Union declarations were issued. During the visit of President Isaias to Brussels at the end of January 1999, the Commission reiterated the need for a peaceful settlement of the conflict and urged Eritrea to accept the Organisation of African unity (OAU) framework agreement. On 19-20 February 1999, the Commission participated in a Troïka mission and had meetings with the OAU, the Ethiopian Foreign minister and the President of Eritrea. Regular contacts were also established between the Commission delegation and the respective governments and between the Commission and the respective embassies in Brussels. A number of mediation efforts have been carried out. The most serious mediation effort undertaken up till now is the OAU initiative. The heads of state and government of the OAU presented to both governments on 7-8 November 1998 proposals for a framework agreement, including an end of all hostilities, redeployment of troops as well as a demilitarisation process and a delimitation of the border. Ethiopia had accepted the proposals in November 1998, but Eritrea raised a number of questions and requested modifications. The question of withdrawal of Eritrean forces from the occupied territories remained a stumbling block. Eritrea has received (informally) from the OAU at the beginning of February 1999 the requested clarifications. On 27 February 1999, and after having been dealt a blow by Ethiopian forces on the Batme front, Eritrea also accepted the OAU framework agreement. The Security Council supported also the OAU proposals and a United Nations special envoy, M. Sahnoun, toured the region. As mentioned above, a Troika mission visited the region on 19–20 February 1999. The Union has expressed its unequivocal support for the OAU efforts aiming at a peaceful resolution of the conflict. It has strongly supported the OAU framework agreement and has advocated its acceptance by both countries as the only basis for a peaceful solution.