the plan inadequate, the company must propose modifications to it. Once the Secretary of State accepts the plan, the company must give effect to it. The Directive clearly prescribes that, should this irregularity occur, the competent authority of the home Member State must request the restoration plan. By contrast, the domestic provision stipulates that the company must “… at the request of the Secretary of State…” submit a restoration plan. The domestic provision can thus be construed as conferring a prerogative to the Secretary of State to request the submission of the restoration plan, rather than imposing an obligation on him to request it. Failure to prevent the solvency margin from falling below the guarantee fund : at UK level, section 33 of the ICA, as amended, prescribes that when the margin of solvency of an insurance company falls below the guarantee fund (one-third of a required margin of solvency), the company must, at the request of the Secretary of State, submit to him a short-term financial scheme. If the Secretary of State considers the scheme inadequate, the company must propose modifications to it. Once the Secretary of State accepts the scheme, the company must give effect to it. The Act places the emphasis on the insurance company’s obligation to submit the short-term financial scheme but does not impose an obligation on the Secretary of State to request it. Duties of the Member States where the assets are located : UK legislation does envisage the possibility that the Secretary of State may restrict an EC company’s freedom to dispose of its assets at the request of the supervisory authority of the company’s home State. The power of the competent authority to prohibit the free disposal of assets: under UK legislation, the ICA 1982 confers on the Secretary of State the power to restrict a company’s freedom to dispose of its assets. Sections 37, 40(A) and 45 of the ICA 1982 govern the grounds for the exercise of this power and the formalities to be observed. Section 37(3) of the Act lays down the following grounds on the basis of which the Secretary of State may restrict a company’s freedom to dispose of its assets: where the Secretary of State has given (and not revoked) a direction withdrawing (section 11) or suspending (section 12(A)) a company’s authorisation to carry on insurance business; on the grounds that it appears to the Secretary of State that the company has failed to satisfy its obligation to maintain a minimum solvency margin (section 32) or has failed to comply with the obligations relating to the localisation and currency of the assets (section 35); on the grounds that it appears to the Secretary of State that the company’s liabilities have not been determined in accordance with valuation regulations or generally accepted accounting methods; on the grounds that it appears to the Secretary of State that the company has failed to cover its liabilities by assets of appropriate safety, yield and marketability (section 35A). Section 45 of the Act, as amended by the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations