Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (6 March 2006) The Commission is aware that several episodes of religious communal violence occurred recently, in particular the forcible closure of churches and other places of worship by militant organisations. Besides these individual incidents, another problem is the long-standing decree which governs the opening of places of worship. It requires local communities to approve any new place of worship, a condition which can effectively make it very difficult to open churches in majority Muslim areas. As a result, some Christian groups are reported to resort to private houses, hotels and shopping malls for worship. The Commission is concerned by this situation and is following it closely. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has reaffirmed his commitment to uphold religious freedom in Indonesia and the Government of Indonesia has categorically condemned acts of religious violence. Mainstream public opinion as well as Muslim mass organisations, support a dialogue on the benefits of tolerance and pluralism and condemn such attacks. In the last two elections in 1999 and 2004, faith-based parties have registered a decline. This does not exclude the recent excesses as described above. The Commission has already been active in promoting human rights and religious diversity with the Government of Indonesia. The Commission intends to ensure that such issues are raised on the occasion of the political dialogue held regularly at ministerial troika level. The next ministerial troika to be held in Vienna on 27 March 2006 could present an opportunity to raise these issues. The Commission sees the inter-faith dialogue it is promoting together with Indonesia as part of a long term solution. The first inter-faith dialogue in the framework of ASEM (Asia‑Europe Meetings) hosted by Indonesia in July 2005, with the Commission’s support, brought together high-level religious and political leaders. Lastly, these issues are addressed through the support to human rights projects under the European initiative for democracy and human rights (EIDHR), which has selected Indonesia as a priority country.