Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the interim report of the Committee on International Trade and the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs ( A7-0427/2011 ), A. whereas textiles are excluded from the PCA and were instead regulated by a bilateral agreement which lapsed in 2005, creating legal uncertainty for Union exporters, since Uzbekistan (not being a WTO member) is free to increase import tariffs whereas the Union accords Most-Favoured-Nation treatment (in tariffs) to every country in the world, B. whereas the Protocol aims to include textiles in the PCA, which will lead to both parties granting each other MFN status, thereby putting an end to the legal uncertainty for Union textile exporters, C. whereas the Union has previously rectified this legal uncertainty for Union textile exporters through amendments to PCAs with various countries (e.g. Azerbaijan in 2007 and Kazakhstan in 2008), D. whereas Article 2 of the PCA with Uzbekistan states that ‘Respect for democracy, principles of international law and human rights as defined in particular in the United Nations Charter, the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris for a New Europe, as well as the principles of market economy, including those enunciated in the documents of the CSCE Bonn Conference, underpin the internal and external policies of the Parties and constitute essential elements of partnership and of this Agreement’, E. whereas the Council stated on 25 October 2010 that it ‘remains seriously concerned by the overall situation regarding human rights, democratisation and the rule of law in Uzbekistan’, F. whereas the Government of Uzbekistan is in the process of taking important steps to achieve democracy, G. whereas the Government of Uzbekistan acts contrary to the outcome of the European Union - Central Asia Ministerial meeting in Tashkent on 7 April 2011, in which ‘the sides recalled that the development of a strong civil society constitutes an integral part of democracy development’, H. whereas Uzbekistan inherited and kept largely unreformed a state-run agricultural system; whereas other countries in the same region, such as Kazakhstan and to a lesser extent Tajikistan, are modernising their agriculture and addressing many of the problems What has changed? School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, November 2010, ( http://www.soas.ac.uk/cccac/centres-publications/file64329.pdf ) ; whereas genuine agrarian reform and mechanisation will considerably reduce the incidence of forced child labour and water wastage and will make farms more profitable, I. whereas Uzbek farmers may officially be free operators but they lease their land, buy their fertilizer and are required to meet quotas, all from the government; whereas the government buys its cotton at a fixed price and earns considerable amounts of money from selling the cotton at the much higher world market price, J. whereas the Council Presidency recalled in the Union statement at the ILO in June 2011 ‘the well-documented allegations and broad consensus among the United Nations bodies, the UNICEF, the representative organizations of employers and workers and NGOs stating that, despite the legal commitments made by the Government of Uzbekistan to eradicate forced child labour, in practice, year after year an