The Internet as a political tool Information society 2005-09-13 - 14:43 The second in the series of debates organised by the European Parliament on the effects of the digital society was preceded on Tuesday morning by the official launch of Parliament's new website by its President, Josep Borrell. Mr Borrell acknowledged that a gap exists between European citizens and the Europe built up over the past 50 years. " One of the reasons for this gap is the difficulty of communication between the citizens and the European institutions ," he said. For this reason the European Parliament has transformed its website into a dynamic tool in 20 languages, which is easy to access and to use. " At a moment when our European project needs a new vision of the future, a vision which evokes new hopes and makes sense to all citizens, we offer a new key to enter the European Parliament. I hope they will like this key and will want to enter this house ," Mr Borrell concluded. The participants in the second of Parliament's debates explored the effectiveness of the Internet as a tool of political campaigning and the possible formation of new political communities. The use made of the web by French opponents to the EU constitution and the campaign for debt relief of the poorest developing countries were presented as case studies. Guilhem Fouetillou of the French research group RTGI explained how opponents of the EU constitution made far greater use of the internet than supporters: of the over 250 sites examined dealing with the referendum, 161 were hosted by opponents and only 79 by supporters of the constitution. The opposing sites could be considered to be a community in the sense that they usually referred to links of like-minded sites, whereas the supporters of the constitution were more open, providing links to other sites as well. Fouetillou warned, however, that this "geography" did not correspond to the actual social geography of France. In his opening remarks, Bill Hayton, a journalist of BBC On-line, who led the debate, had also pointed out that those with access to the Internet in fact already form a pre-selected, privileged group and that there would seem to be a disjuncture between the users of the traditional media and the young, technologically savvy users of the net. Somewhat contradictory were the research results presented by Ann Zimmermann, who is studying political public spheres in Europe on the Internet at the Free University of Berlin. Her conclusions were that the Internet would appear to be a replication of actors in the traditional mass media, which continue to be the largest providers of information on the Internet. By contrast, Martin Gill, who is responsible for the Internet campaign of MakePovertyHistory, set out how the Internet and e-mail was used to engage a wide audience in the political aims of ensuring debt relief, better aid and better trade conditions for the poorest countries. The MakePovertyHistory campaign succeeded in having 650,000 registered supporters, who were not only informed about but also encouraged to take part