stabilise the price of commodities, particularly in its relations with ACP countries, arguing that they were not yielding sufficient results (Systmin, Stabex...) or that they were not compatible with WTO rules. Within the same period, prices of most commodities for producers have diminished drastically, with enormous consequences on the poor of the world ... " Millions of producers of commodities are facing a depression even worse than the one of the ‘1930....At the end of the 80’s, the coffee exporting countries were receiving nearly 12 billions of dollars for their exports. In 2003, they were exporting more coffee but were receiving less that half of the amount previously mentioned: 5,5 billions of dollars ", UNDP, World Report on Human development 2005, p. 19. The control of the commodities-market, -and the benefits of it- are today very much concentrated in the hands of few retailer companies. " The 30 first supermarkets corporate and food corporate do 1/3 of the sales of retail worldwide. ..Wal-Mart, the biggest company in the word, sells more that 1/3 of the sales of food industry in the US " Same report, p. 152. This seems to be a typical area where the European Commission as well as the WTO should stress in the building of mechanisms to stabilise the price of commodities and establish a reasonable balance between the benefits of the producers and the retailers. Services and public health Access to minimum services is a necessary condition for human dignity and for democracy. Any improvement of access to public services has immediate consequences in terms of poverty reduction. Access to water is particularly sensitive for the poor and has enormous potential for future conflicts for this century. Actual use of water is totally irrational: 70% of the world’s water is now used for irrigation (of which 60% is wasted), 22%by industry and just 8% for human consumption. In its resolution on water management in developing countries, the European Parliament "emphasises that distribution of water should be looked upon as essentially a public service" European Parliament, 4 September 2003, Resolution on the Commission communication on water management in developing countries and priorities for EU development cooperation. . Some governments - the one in Mali - have decided to return the management of water to the public sector. In Uruguay a popular initiative allowed an amendment in the Constitution in order to limit to the public sector the right to administrate water. In Bolivia, poor people linked to the new indigenous government reversed the privatisation of water in two major cities (Cochabamba and El Alto). As it is now known that water is a reason for future conflicts, the EU, in view of its conflict-prevention policy should abstain from any demand of liberalisation of water distribution in any trade negotiation, and could undertake an initiative in order to turn water into a universal public good. Public services are part of the identity of Europe. Fair possibility for everyone to have access to basic services is considered a precondition for democracy and every European country has been built on this