of the Bank of Spain to the discussions and decision-making on key issues in the Eurosystem. In this respect, I had the opportunity to follow the activity of the main working groups and to become involved in the preparation of the positions of the Bank of Spain as regards its participation in the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. Secondly, I should refer to my participation in working groups on economic and financial matters at the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). I took part in these fora in my capacity as an economic adviser to the Bank of Spain. Moreover, I have undertaken independent advisory and consultancy work in monetary, budget and fiscal matters for the European Commission (D-G for Economic and Financial Affairs) and the World Bank (Argentina, Colombia and the World Bank Institute), among other international institutions. Lastly, I have published my research on fiscal and economic issues in international journals and books edited by prestigious publishing companies. Furthermore, I am a member of the European Academy of Arts and Sciences and of the International Institute of Public Finance. 3. What are the most important decisions to which you have been party in your professional life? I have indirectly referred to some of the most important decisions in which I have taken part in my response to the two preceding questions. Nevertheless, I would highlight the following: First, my involvement in the design and implementation of a new monetary policy strategy at the Bank of Spain. In 1995, against the background of the peseta’s membership of the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM) and after the Bank of Spain was endowed with full independence, a monetary targeting-type strategy , the so-called “two-stage scheme” was discontinued and replaced by an inflation targeting-type strategy, namely “direct inflation monitoring”. This new framework proved successful in bringing inflation below 2% in 1998, just before the inception of the euro, while being compatible with the restrictions set by the ERM to a fully autonomous monetary policy. As a member of the decision-making bodies of the Bank of Spain, I have been involved in the design of Stage Three of EMU and its implementation in Spain. A particularly important milestone in this respect was the euro cash changeover. Thirdly, I have been actively involved in all the decisions concerning banking supervision and regulation in Spain over the last ten years. Among the latter, I may cite the creation of a new statistical (dynamic) provision aimed at reinforcing medium-term solvency through a proper recognition of ex ante credit risk. Besides this, I have also participated in the design of a framework for the evaluation and monitoring of financial stability in the banking sector. Finally, I should mention my role in the reform of the rules and procedures geared to deficit restraint and budget stability. I participated in these decisions as an adviser, as a member of working groups, and as an author of academic and professional publications. 4. Do you have any business or financial holdings or any other