with the payment of compensation. To my knowledge, there are no provisions in any of the Life Directives that are concerned with the payment of damages or compensation. That is currently a matter for national law " (H7). Commissioner McCREEVY reiterated this point in H8: " The insurance Directives do not deal with or make any reference to the question of compensation. " Mr ALEXANDER expresses the view that " European law should have a role to play in further defining the remedies available to policyholders to bring claims for losses arising from breach of EU legislation against third party firms ". Such remedies would not replace but complement existing remedies under national law.(WE-FILE 31 Page 2. ). According to him, it should be defined exactly what losses should be compensated and how compensation is calculated. Legislation should also " address the elements required for a policyholder to bring a claim or define requirements for a policyholder to bring ... civil action against a firm or an individual in breach of EU law " (WE-FILE 31). Mr KERN suggests that " European legislation could amend existing directives to provide remedies for private individuals to bring civil claims in Member State courts ... Alternatively, a separate directive could be adopted that provides for remedies for losses suffered from violations of any number of existing EU directives ... that govern life assurance and financial services more generally " (WE-FILE 31 Page 3. ). 2. Primary EU law a.) The right to petition and complaints to the European Commission Under Article 194 of the EC Treaty, any citizen of the European Union, or resident in a Member State, may, individually or in association with others, submit a petition to the European Parliament on a subject which comes within the European Union's fields of activity and which affects them directly. The petition may present an individual request, a complaint or observation concerning the application of EU law or an appeal to the European Parliament to adopt a position on a specific matter. Such petitions give the European Parliament the opportunity of calling attention to any infringement of a European citizen's rights by a Member State or local authorities or other institution. Depending on the circumstances, the Committee on Petitions may, for instance, ask the European Commission to conduct a preliminary investigation and provide information regarding compliance with relevant Community legislation. In some exceptional cases, the committee may submit a report to Parliament to be voted upon in plenary or conduct a fact-finding visit. It may also seek to cooperate with national or local authorities in Member States to resolve an issue raised by a petitioner. The Petitions Committee cannot, however, override decisions taken by competent authorities within Member States. As the European Parliament is not a judicial authority, it cannot pass judgement on, nor revoke decisions taken by the Courts of law in Member States. Similarly, the European Parliament does not have the power to award compensation to petitioners who have suffered loss as a consequence of incorrect transposition of EU law. In the case of