to business conducted with clients through a branch, since that authority is in greatest proximity to the branch, and is better placed to detect and intervene in respect of infringements of rules governing firm-client transactions. (27) It is necessary to impose an effective "best execution" obligation to ensure that the investment firms execute client orders on terms that are the best reasonably achievable under the terms of the execution policy agreed between the firm and the client or, in the case of professional clients, in accordance with the client's specific instructions . This obligation should apply to the firm which owes contractual or agency obligations to the client - irrespective of whether that firm executes the order itself or relies on another intermediary to do so. It is appropriate to require investment firms to have in place effective and efficient procedures so as to be able to demonstrate to the competent authority that it has met its best execution obligations. (28) In order to enhance confidence in the impartiality and quality of execution services and to improve the overall price-formation process, it is essential that the investment firm which receives a limit order and is unable to execute such an order on specified terms immediately, route it to a "regulated market" or MTF, or disclose the terms of the trading interest to the market in some other way. (29) This Directive recognises that investors should be fully aware of the potential risks and benefits associated with particular order handling arrangements. To this end, the clients should give their express consent before their orders are executed, in particular against the proprietary positions of the firm. The investment firm should have the right to decide whether to obtain this prior consent on a general basis (e.g. at the outset of the relationship) or on a trade-by-trade basis. (30) It is appropriate to determine the conditions under which investment firms can rely on the offices of tied agents. As it performs a limited range of functions on behalf of one investment firm, the tied agent should not be considered an investment firm itself and should not be eligible to undertake its activities in other Member States. Member States should be able to delegate responsibility as regards the authorisation, registration and supervision of tied agents to appropriately resourced and independent self-regulatory bodies. This Directive should be without prejudice to the right of tied agents to undertake related activities in respect of financial services or products not covered by this Directive, including on behalf of parts of the same financial group. The conditions for conducting activities outside the premises of the investment firm (door-to-door selling) should not be covered by this Directive. (31) For the purposes of ensuring that conduct of business rules are enforced in respect of those investors most in need of these protections, and in reflection of well-established market practice throughout the Community, it is appropriate to clarify that conduct of business rules may be waived in the case of transactions between eligible counterparties. (32) The mere fact, however, that an entity which is