concepts and standards, with the aim of achieving the fullest practicable comparability between transport modes. (5) Inland waterways transport does not occur in all Member States and, therefore, the effect of this Regulation is limited to those Member States where this mode of transport exists. (6) Since the objective of the action to be taken, namely the creation of common statistical standards that permit the production of harmonized data, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective . (7) Council Regulation (EC) No 322/97 of 17 February 1997 on Community Statistics OJ L 52, 22.2.1997, p. 1. Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). provides a reference framework for the provisions laid down by this Regulation. (8) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. . (9) The Statistical Programme Committee established by Council Decision 89/382/EEC, Euratom OJ L 181, 28.6.1989, p. 47. has been consulted in accordance with Article 3 of that Decision. HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 Subject matter This Regulation establishes common rules for the production of Community statistics concerning inland waterways transport. Article 2 Scope 1. Member States shall transmit to the Commission (Eurostat) data relating to inland waterways transport on their national territory. 2. Member States in which the total volume of goods transported annually by inland waterways as national, international or transit transport exceeds one million tonnes shall supply the data referred to in Article 4(1). 3. By way of derogation from paragraph 2 , Member States where there is no international or transit inland waterways transport but where the total volume of goods transported annually by inland waterways as national transport exceeds one million tonnes shall supply only the data required under Article 4(2). 4. This Regulation shall not apply to: a) the carriage of goods by vessels of less than 50 deadweight tonnes ; b) vessels used principally for the carriage of passengers ; c) vessels used for ferrying purposes ; d) vessels used solely for non-commercial purposes by port administrations and public authorities ; e) vessels used solely for bunkering or storage ; f) vessels not used for the carriage of goods such as fishery vessels, dredgers, floating workshops, houseboats and pleasure craft. Article 3 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation , the following definitions shall apply: a) "navigable inland waterway" means a stretch of water, not part of the sea, over which vessels of a carrying capacity of not less than 50 tonnes