Answer given by Ms Hedegaard on behalf of the Commission (23 March 2011) The origin of the attacks is being investigated by law enforcement authorities in the Member States concerned and by Interpol. Once the investigations has been completed, it is expected that the Commission will be informed of the outcome by the relevant national Registry Administrators. The extent of the damage is not clear as some national Registries have not confirmed the number of allowances affected. The Commission's best estimate is that roughly 2 million allowances, representing a total of less than 0.02 % of allowances in circulation, have been illegally transferred out of certain accounts. Some phishing attacks on end users were carried out early in 2010. Some users divulged their Registry credentials, leading to theft from their accounts. It appears that, according to the terms of use of national Registries' accounts, users are usually liable for the consequences of divulgation of their user name and password or for not taking adequate measures such as updating anti-virus software on their own computers. As most trading is in futures, which does not involve the immediate delivery of allowances in Registries, in practice, the suspension affects only the spot market, which accounts for less than a fifth of the average daily market volume. The spot market in the Member States where the national Registries have been re-instated has resumed activity; only market participants with accounts in the Member States whose Registries are still suspended are currently not able to trade in the spot market. National Registries must satisfy agreed minimum security criteria in the short term before resuming normal operations. Discussions are ongoing with Member States, e.g. through the Climate Change Committee, with a view to agreeing medium term improvements in security such as regular monitoring and security testing. The work and activities of the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) in promoting exchanges of best practises and cooperation on public and private approaches to network and information security could possibly also constitute an important input to this process. Lastly, as announced in the Digital Agenda for Europe COM(2010)245 final. , the Commission has launched an initiative towards the establishment of a Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) for the EU institutions, which will aim at promoting good security practises and help ensure higher coordination across the institutions. Given that from 2012 onwards, the allowances under the EU ETS will be held in a centralised Registry As provided in Article 19(1) of Directive 2003/87/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC (Text with EEA relevance), OJ L 275, 25.10.2003, as amended by Directive 2009/29/EC. operated by the Commission, the security of the ETS system will benefit from the establishment of the CERT for the EU institutions.