Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (8 May 2008) In response to the Honourable Member's question, he will understand that the Commission cannot comment on a specific infringement case given that it is held to confidentiality in its discussion with the relevant Member State. It follows that the Commission, given this constraint, can only answer the Honourable Member's specific questions in a general manner. Thus, as regards the Honourable Member's first question, the Commission would note that no evidence has been provided to the Commission regarding the need to subsidise pharmacies in rural areas. Obviously any such schemes could at first sight constitute state aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty. However, the Court of Justice has clarified in its Altmark judgment that, if the measure is conceived by the Member State concerned as a compensation for a service of general economic interest (SGEI), it may not fall within the scope of Article 87(1) provided that it complies with certain criteria set out in the judgment Case C‑280/00 Altmark Trans GmbH and Regierungspräsidium Magdeburg v Nahverkehrsgesellschaft Altmark GmbH [2003] ECR I‑7747. . Member States have a wide margin of discretion regarding the nature of services that could be classified as being of general economic interest in respect of which compensation could be provided. Where at least one of the ‘Altmark’ criteria is not met, the public service compensation will constitute state aid if all the conditions set out in Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty are also fulfilled. Should the compensation system constitute state aid, it would be compatible with Community law and exempt from the notification obligation of Article 88(3) of the EC Treaty when the conditions specified in Commission decision of 28 November 2005 Commission decision of 28 November 2005 on the application of Article 86(2) of the EC Treaty to state aid in the form of public service compensation granted to certain undertakings entrusted with the operation of services of general economic interest, OJ L 312, 29.11.2005. are met. These conditions seek to ensure that the compensation allocated corresponds to the net costs estimated on the basis of the precisely defined parameters included in the act of entrustment, and that there is no overcompensation. Should the conditions of this decision not be met, the Member State concerned can still notify the measure to the Commission who will then examine its compatibility with the common market on the basis of the Community framework for state aid in the form of public service compensation OJ C 297, 29.11.2005. . As regards the second question, the Commission has no evidence that suggests that the possibility of foreign ownership negatively impacts upon the quality of pharmacy service provision. On the contrary, a study carried out for the Commission by an external consultant and that has been made available to the public (‘Study of regulatory restrictions in the field of pharmacies’ by Ecorys http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/services/pharmacy_en.htm. ) suggests a negative correlation between what the Commission considers to be disproportionate ownership restrictions and the quality of pharmacy services. In