is a need to take stock of results before fully authorising the funds requested for external programmes from 2007 and onwards. This is also the case since the Court of Auditors has previously pointed out the need to monitor the costs of devolution to delegations against the results. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should: - provide a clear overview of the new provisions/measures foreseen for the new generation of external programmes 2007-2013 to improve the integration of environmental aspects into development programmes; - list concrete measures already decided/implemented following the establishment of the Commission steering-group to improve quality and coordination of environmental aspects in external programmes; - explain the inter-relationship between devolution of aid programmes to the EC delegations and the trends in expenditure observed. This shall include an analysis of operational vs. administrative costs and the split between headquarters and delegations, including aspects of staff, temporary staff, and other types of support expenditure; - clarify whether it now considers the working relationship between headquarters and delegations as satisfactory or which additional measures will still need to be put in place; - clarify whether the need for simplification with regard to delegation procedures has now been completed. If not, what new measures have been proposed, i.e. within the framework of the new regulation? Amendment 3805 : budget line 19 10 01 : Cooperation with developing countries in Asia Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: According to Special Report 4/2005 of the Court of Auditors, application procedures for funding are excessively complex, delegations should assist applicants more and there should be a greater focus on sustainability of projects. According to its Special Report 6/2006, the Court of Auditors considers that reporting, monitoring and evaluation systems covering the environmental aspects of the Commission's development cooperation need to be strengthened. Almost all of the environment projects examined were relevant to beneficiary country needs, and frequently also addressed global conservation needs but outputs and results frequently fell short of objectives. According to Special Report 10/2004 of the Court of Auditors on the devolution of external aid, better indicators of speed and quality of aid delivery are needed and delays in project implementation should be reduced. Given the completely new landscape of implementation of external aid following devolution over the course of the current financial perspective, there is a need to take stock of results before fully authorising the funds requested for external programmes from 2007 and onwards. This is also the case since the Court of Auditors has previously pointed out the need to monitor the costs of devolution to delegations against the results. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should: - provide a clear overview of the new provisions/measures foreseen for the new generation of external programmes 2007-2013 to improve the integration of environmental aspects into development programmes; - list concrete measures already decided/implemented following the establishment of the Commission steering-group to improve quality