Answer given by Mrs Wallström on behalf of the Commission (14 October 2003) 1. In the Apulia Region, the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guarantee and Guidance Fund (EAGGF) contributes to the co-funding of the rural development plan for the period 2000-2006, which was approved by Commission Decision No C(2001)479 of 2 March 2001. This programme provides, among other things, for a measure concerning the reforestation of agricultural land. The rural development plan covers the entire regional territory, but gives priority, in particular as regards the reforestation of agricultural land, to sites of Community importance (SCI) and special protection areas (SPA) and to other protected areas. For the period 2000-2006, guaranteed EAGGF co-funding of EUR 11 million is planned for this measure. Farmers in the Alta Murgia were able and still can submit projects under this measure. The Guidance Section of the EAGGF contributes to the co-funding of the regional operational programme (ROP) and the Community initiative Leader+ programme for the period 2000-2006. Under the ROP, which was approved by Commission No C(2000)2349 of 8 August 2000, the Apulia Region plans, in the framework of measure 1.7, to carry out activities for the forestation and reforestation of woodland for environmental purposes in particular. The measure covers the entire regional territory, but gives priority to the SCI and SPA areas and other protected areas. For this programme, foresters and other aid recipients in Alta Murgia may also submit reforestation projects in response to the invitations for tender issued by the Region. EAGGF co-funding of EUR 31 million is scheduled for this measure. With regard to the Community initiative Leader+ programme for the period 2000-2006, which was approved by Commission Decision No C(2002)171 of 29 January 2002, no specific EAGGF Guidance Section funding is planned for forestation in the Apulia Region. The Commission has approved the above programmes after verifying that they conform with the relevant Community provisions. Local management is the responsibility of the Member States, at the most appropriate geographical level. The programmes must be implemented by the competent national and/or regional authorities, which must in particular ensure that projects are selected from among those proposed by potential recipients which fulfil the eligibility requirements and apply for support. The Commission is kept informed, in the framework of the partnership, about the detailed arrangements for using the funds by means of programme implementation reports and by Monitoring Committees in which the Member States participate. The information, which is in the form of financial and physical monitoring indicators, and the assessment factors do not concern specific areas such as the Alta Murgia or individual cases in which support is given, since in conformity with the principle of subsidiarity the Commission is not competent to express an opinion on them. The Commission would therefore ask the Honourable Member to contact the Apulia Region Assessorato all'Agricoltura for information about funding for reforestation in the specific area of Alta Murgia in the framework of the above programmes. 2. Under the current LIFE III Programme, projects are the responsibility of individual beneficiaries and not of a region.