designed for application to trim and cladding which produce an opaque film. These coatings are designed either for a wood or metal or plastic substrate. This subcategory includes undercoats and intermediate coatings . Justification This amendment seeks to correct a technical error: the table in Annex II puts opaque wood stains in category (e) (Interior/exterior trim varnishes and woodstains, whereas in the definitions in Annex I, these products come under the definition for subcategory (d) (Interior/exterior trim and cladding paints for wood and metal). It is therefore proposed that opaque wood stains should be put in the relevant subcategory of Annex I. Amendment 34 ANNEX I, 1.2 Vehicle refinishing products means products used to coat a road vehicle or part of it, whether as part of a repair job, or to coat the vehicle with refinish-type materials, where this is done away from the original manufacturing line. Vehicle refinishing products means products used in any industrial or commercial coating activity and associated degreasing activities performing: - the coating of road vehicles as defined in Directive 70/156/EEC, or part of them, carried out as part of vehicle repair, conservation or decoration outside of manufacturing installations, or- - the original coating of road vehicles as defined in Directive 70/156/EEC or part of them with refinishing-type materials, where this is carried out away from the original manufacturing line, or the coating of trailers (including semi-trailers) (category O). Justification For the purposes of ensuring consistency in Community legislation, the rapporteur proposes to reproduce the wording used in Directive 1999/13/EC for the definition of road vehicles. Amendment 35 ANNEX I, 2.1 (e) 2.1e) Special finishes means coatings designed for application as topcoats requiring special properties, such as metallic or pearl effect, in a single layer, high-performance solid-colour and clear coats, (e.g. anti scratch and fluorinated clear-coat) reflective base coat, texture finishes (e.g. hammer), anti-slip, under-body sealers, anti-chip coatings and interior finishes . 2.1e) Special products means matting, texturing and leather graining coatings and agents; antigraffiti clearcoat; coatings for plastic components, flexible / adhesion primers, plasticizing additives; spot repair fade out additive; anti surface-defect additive; transparent, special effect design colours; organic solvent degreasers/silicone removers; electrostatic additive and aerosols. Justification The Commission definition is ambiguous and includes products that are no longer used (single layer metallics). It also omits some important (though low volume) product types. Some of these are additives so the term "special finishes" is inappropriate. Amendment 36 ANNEX A, row (e), WB, (Phase II) Phase II (g/l*) (from 1.1.2010): (from 1.1.2010) WB 100 Phase II (g/l*) (from 1.1.2010): (from 1.1.2010) WB 130 Justification The limit for subcategory (e) ‘Interior / exterior trim varnishes and wood stains including opaque wood stains’ WB is set at 100g/l for Phase II. This category of WB coating is even more critical in respect of open time and flow characteristics than paint. As such a low VOC limit will lead to unacceptable aesthetical appearance of the coating materials applied. It is therefore not understood why particularly this category of paint is directed to lower VOC threshold limits than opaque WB products.