EU Member States were affected, in particular approximately 8 000 Irish and 4 000 German citizens. Thus, a large number of European citizens have suffered as a result of the crisis at Equitable Life. 2. The written and oral presentations made to the committee See Part IV, Section II points 1 and 3. suggest that the crisis at ELAS has caused financial hardship to many individual pensioners and savers. Evidence also shows that many policyholders have suffered considerable worry and distress in relation to issues surrounding the availability of redress and access to justice, in addition to their financial losses. 3. The collective losses incurred by policyholders cannot be quantified precisely on the basis of submissions made to the committee. See Part IV, Section II point 2. The cut in policy values intimated on 16 July 2001 equalled around £4 billion. However, there has been conflicting evidence as to which part of the cut can be attributed to mismanagement of the Society and which part was rather a consequence of external factors, such as the weak performance of financial markets at the time. However, the Society's practice of paying excessive bonuses throughout the 1990s, together with the cost of paying for GAR appear to have been major causes for the reduction in policy values. In the aftermath of the crisis, the investment options of ELAS were severely constrained with further financial repercussions for the policyholders. 4. Statements made to the committee See Part IV, Section II point 3. have highlighted the fact that various classes of policyholders were affected by the crisis to differing degrees. However, it appears that several groups were particularly disadvantaged: firstly those non-GAR policyholders who joined between the late 1990s and 2000, as they had not previously benefited from the Society's excessive bonus allocation; secondly, with-profits annuitants who suffered severe reductions in their annuity payments without having the possibility to transfer policies to another provider; thirdly, policyholders from Member States other than the United Kingdom, such as Ireland and Germany, were put in a particularly difficult position, irrespective of the terms of their policy with ELAS. 5. Statements made to the committee have shown that many of the victims of the ELAS crisis had great difficulty in knowing what route to take or who to apply to in trying to obtain information, make a complaint and obtain redress. Many were literally passed from pillar to post by various agencies. Others clearly had huge expectations of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) systems when they might have been better advised to have pursued a claim through the traditional courts, if they could have afforded the financial cost. In short, the material presented to the committee shows a pattern of confusion and much inequality of treatment. Subsequent conclusions and recommendations on the status of claims and adequacy of remedies available to policyholders and access to judicial and non-judicial remedies are now examined in turn. I. Redress through the courts (a) Litigation by ELAS 6. Equitable Life's attempt to recover losses by litigation against its former directors and auditors did not result in