Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (17 June 2010) The Commission has developed a policy to respond to possible threats deriving from the misuse of CBRN (Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear) materials, including biological agents and toxins. The overall goal of the policy is to reduce the threat from CBRN incidents by way of a coherent, prioritised EU CBRN Action Plan, which involves all relevant stakeholders at both the EU level and outside of the Union. In order to prepare the CBRN policy, in February 2008 the Commission established a CBRN Task Force consisting of experts from a broad range of national and international authorities and organisations. The recommendations of the final report of the Task Force were the basis for an EU CBRN Action Plan by the Commission in June 2009 and approved by the Council in November 2009. The EU CBRN Action Plan contains about 130 recommendations in three main areas of CBRN security work. Firstly, it has to be ensured that unauthorised access to high-risk CBRN materials is as difficult as possible (prevention). This entails measures to enhance the security of facilities dealing with high risk CBRN materials and contributions to the development of a high security culture of staff. The second area of the CBRN Action Plan aims at improving the capabilities to detect CBRN materials. The last part of the action plan then deals with recommendations in order to provide an efficient response to incidents involving CBRN materials and to recover from them as quickly as possible (preparedness and response). This includes actions to improve emergency planning and to strengthen countermeasure capacities. The implementation of the CBRN Action Plan began in 2010. The Commission has set up a CBRN Advisory Group, consisting of Member State experts and representatives of relevant international organisations, which will provide advice and will support the implementation process. However, the CBRN Action Plan deals with possible CBRN incidents only from a civilian viewpoint. It does not address specific issues related to the military aspects of CBRN preparedness and response. The development status of the biodefence industry in Europe has not been assessed.