Answer given by Mr Almunia on behalf of the Commission (7 February 2011) The Honourable Member refers to an increase in airfares charged by Lufthansa/Brussels Airlines, as well as to reductions in the flight schedule on the Brussels-Frankfurt route. The Commission approved the acquisition of SN Brussels Airlines by Lufthansa in June 2009 subject to conditions. The Brussels-Frankfurt route was thoroughly investigated during the Commission's merger investigation. The Commission found that the merger of Lufthansa and SN Brussels Airlines on this route would lead to competition concerns that could however be alleviated by commitments. In particular, during the Commission's market investigation three airlines (VLM, Air Berlin and easyJet) expressed interest in taking up slots offered by the merging parties on the Brussels-Frankfurt route and were therefore considered as potential competitors of the merged entity. Finally, considering the interest demonstrated by several airlines in entering routes where competition concerns had been identified, the Commission concluded that the commitments were very likely to lead to entry by one or several airlines on the identified city pairs in a timely manner and that this entry would suffice to resolve the competition concerns identified on these markets. So far, no entry has however taken place on the Brussels-Frankfurt route. This is possibly due to market circumstances, for instance, the difficult situation with which the air transport sector has been confronted. Moreover, the pricing policy of Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines on the Brussels-Frankfurt route relates to a business decision of the merged entity. It does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Commission under the merger control rules. In addition, the agreements within a group of companies cannot be examined under Article 101 TFEU (prohibition of anti-competitive agreements between undertakings). For an assessment pursuant to Article 102 TFEU (prohibition of the unilateral abuse of dominant position), the Commission currently lacks sufficient evidence.