1996; Final Report to the Lord Chancellor on the civil justice system in England and Wales. on the civil justice system in England and Wales: " The defects ... identified in our present system were that it is too expensive in that the costs often exceed the value of the claim; too slow in bringing cases to a conclusion and too unequal: there is a lack of equality between the powerful, wealthy litigant and the under-resourced litigant. It is too uncertain: the difficulty of forecasting what litigation will cost and how long it will last induces the fear of the unknown; and it is incomprehensible to many litigants. Above all it is too fragmented in the way it is organised, since there is no-one with clear overall responsibility for the administration of civil justice; and too adversarial as cases are run by the parties, not by the courts and the rules of court, all too often, are ignored by the parties and not enforced by the court “ (WE 23 Page 22. ). WE 23 includes a letter sent by a law firm to the FSA in answer to a consultation paper. It notes the following: " A lawsuit in the High Court concerning a financial services mis-sale, which is defended up to the point of trial, can cost anything from £30,000 to £150,000. Few business clients, and even fewer private clients, can afford this kind of outlay. ... The uncertainty of the outcome and the risk of paying the other side’s costs are a significant disincentive. " " Apart from a small number of relatively wealthy claimants, this approach is more or less closed to the average policyholder in the UK ", Mr SCAWEN (H3) concluded. The evidence obtained from both EMAG (H1) and Mr WEIR (H2) suggests that only a few high net-worth individuals and groups have issued court proceedings or threatened to do so against ELAS. Naturally, the committee sought to obtain evidence as to the number of court cases issued by policyholders against ELAS and the outcome achieved. It therefore contacted several witnesses asking them to make available court documents and judgements. In response, it received a copy of one claim for rescission and damages for misinterpretation and/or breach of statutory duty issued on 13 May 2002 by a policyholder who had invested more than £850.000 in 2002, which was reportedly settled in full before the hearing (see WE-CONF 15). Apart from this document, no written evidence on court cases initiated by policyholders was received. Mr BAIN (H8) reported a case where a complainant, who had allegedly been mis-sold an income drawdown pension policy was offered a compensation of £522 by ELAS. After he threatened ELAS with legal action, the Society agreed to pay him £81,907, according to Mr BAIN. Mr WEIR stressed that " to my personal knowledge, everyone [who instructed lawyers or launched claims] was settled in full before their case ever got to court ". " In other words, Equitable Life was well aware that it would lose in open court and that it would