rapporteurs, particularly those on freedom of expression, religious freedom, torture, human rights defenders and violence against women, and to the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detention; Laos 8. Welcomes the ratification of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights by the Laotian Government; calls on the Laotian authorities to respect fully the terms of the Covenant, to harmonise Laotian law with its provisions without delay and to practise these provisions to internationally agreed standards, notably when it comes to freedom of speech, assembly and faith; 9. Reiterates its demand for the immediate release of the leaders of the "Student Movement of 26 October 1999", as well as of all the prisoners of conscience held in Laos, and entrusts the competent EU delegation in Vientiane with the responsibility for following up this matter; 10. Calls on the Laotian authorities to release unconditionally all those people arrested during the attempted peaceful demonstration on 2 November 2009; 11. Calls on the Thai authorities to put an immediate end to the detention of 158 Lao Hmong refugees and to allow them to resettle in Thailand or in the United States, Canada, the Netherlands or Australia, which have already agreed to take them in; calls likewise on the Thai Government to guarantee that all Lao Hmong in the Huay Nam Khao camp have access to screening and status determination procedures if they wish to make an asylum claim; 12. Calls on the Commission to monitor closely the situation of the Lao Hmong community and the government's programmes for ethnic minorities; 13. Reiterates its demand to the Laotian authorities to devise and implement as soon as possible all the reforms needed to bring democracy to the country, to guarantee the right to peaceful expression of political opposition and to ensure that internationally monitored multi-party elections take place soon, with a view to national reconciliation; General 14. Urges the authorities to release immediately and unconditionally all human rights defenders, political prisoners and prisoners of conscience, as their detention is a violation of human rights; also requests the authorities to guarantee their physical and psychological wellbeing in all circumstances and to offer those who need it access to good independent professional medical care; 15. Calls on the Council and the Commission to carry out a detailed assessment of the implementation policies in the field of democracy and human rights conducted in Laos and Vietnam since the signing of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreements and to report back to Parliament; o o o 16. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the governments and parliaments of Vietnam and Laos, the ASEAN Secretariat, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Secretary-General of the United Nations.