Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (11 October 2005) For many months, the Commission has been closely monitoring the difficult food situation in Niger and, to a lesser extent, other countries of West Africa. In the case of Mali, the Commission is aware of the food situation in the livestock-rearing areas, where there are pockets of malnutrition. A bad rain season in 2004 and the locust invasion have damaged pastures, killed significant numbers of cattle and lowered livestock farmers’ incomes. Speculation has driven up cereal prices, aggravating all of these factors. In response, in May 2005 the Commission’s European Community Humanitarian Office (ECHO) mounted emergency operations worth EUR 2 million in cooperation with the World Food Programme (WFP) and non-governmental organisations (NGOs). In addition to these emergency actions, the Commission is mobilising EUR 1.2 million under the food-security budget line for medium-term measures in Mali. The information coming from organisations active on the ground and from ECHO’s evaluation visits indicates fewer cases of serious malnutrition than initially anticipated. Moreover, this year’s abundant rains offer hope that the next harvest, which has just begun, will be better. Pastures have recovered, thereby solving the problem of a concentration of herds in the internal delta of the River Niger. The WFP’s representative in Mali confirmed the improved situation in a statement on 27 August: ‘There is no famine in Mali. The Malians, with the help of some of their partners, have mitigated the effects of a crisis that others were unable to manage in their own countries.’ The representative’s statement confirms that while there are isolated areas of the country where food security is precarious, there is no famine. Mali’s Food Security Commissioner, Ms Lansry Nana Haïdara, said the same thing in Bamako in mid-August, stating that there was ‘no risk of famine in Mali’ this year. Nevertheless, the difficult situation in the region and commercial speculation have kept cereal prices very high, particularly in the North, making this carryover period difficult for the poorest segments of the population. The Commission therefore continues to monitor the situation closely. What is very alarming is that the cereal-market reform programme, the Programme de Réforme du Marché Céréalier du Mali or PRMC, whose stocks and funds have been exhausted over the years without being replenished by the government, was unable to cope with what is certainly a difficult situation but not an exceptional one. It is extremely regrettable that such an exemplary programme, which functioned very well over many years, has collapsed in this manner. A prerequisite for replenishment of the strategic and emergency stocks as requested by the government is an overhaul of Mali’s food security system. The Commission has raised this issue with the Malian authorities, and it will have to be kept in mind in establishing priorities for the next country strategy paper.