granted to the obligation to sign the grant agreement within the first four months of the start of the beneficiary's budget year, as referred to in Article 112(2) of the Financial Regulation. In this case, the grant agreement should be signed by 30 June 2004 at the latest. 6. MANAGEMENT OF THE PROGRAMME In the light of a cost/benefit analysis, the Commission may decide to entrust all or part of the tasks of managing the programme to an executive agency, in conformity with Article 55 of the Financial Regulation. It may also have recourse to experts and incur any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance, not involving the exercise of public authority, outsourced under ad hoc service contracts. It may also finance studies and organise meetings of experts likely to facilitate the implementation of the programme, and undertake information, publication and dissemination actions directly linked to the achievement of the programme's objective. 7. CHECKS AND AUDITS 7.1. The beneficiary of an operating grant shall keep available for the Commission all the supporting documents, including the audited financial statement, regarding expenditure incurred during the grant year, for a period of five years following the last payment. The beneficiary of a grant shall ensure that, where applicable, supporting documents in the possession of partners or members be made available to the Commission. 7.2. The Commission may have an audit of the use made of the grant carried out either directly by its own staff or by any other qualified outside body of its choice. Such audits may be carried out throughout the lifetime of the agreement and for a period of five years from the date of payment of the balance. Where appropriate, the audit findings may lead to recovery decisions by the Commission. 7.3. Commission staff and outside personnel authorised by the Commission shall have appropriate right of access, in particular to the beneficiary's offices and to all the information, including information in electronic format, needed in order to conduct such audits. 7.4. The Court of Auditors and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) shall enjoy the same rights, especially of access, as the Commission. 7.5. In order to protect the European Communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities, the Commission may carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections under this programme in accordance with Council Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 2. . Where necessary, investigations shall be conducted by OLAF and these shall be governed by Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. . ANNEX II Organisations referred in Annex I, section 3, part 2, paragraph 2 – the European Union Youth Orchestra, – the European Union Baroque Orchestra (EUBO), Philharmony of the Nations, – the European Choral Academy, – la Fédération européenne des choeurs de l'Union, Les Choeurs de l'Union européenne, Europa Cantat (European Federation of Young Choirs), – the European Opera Centre (Manchester), – the European Union Jazz Youth Orchestra ("Swinging Europe"), – the International Yehudi Menuhin Foundation, – the European Chamber Orchestra, Association