the duration of the environmental policy-making process by delaying the formulation of concrete policy proposals and the adoption of resulting measures; 3. Considers, in view of the importance of environmental policy to industry and the fact that it is, in general, implemented by local authorities, that it should be taken into account when legislation is drafted and that the views of industry, small business and local authorities should be represented in and listened to by the relevant consultative bodies; 4. Considers it essential to strengthen the position of the Sixth EAP as the environmental dimension of the EU's sustainable development strategy; 5. Believes that, within the EU, competences must be clearly allocated and defined and points out that the Commission's mid-term review shows confusion and internal ambiguity with regard to the competences of the Commission and of the Member States; points out that both the limits of their respective competences and their specific responsibilities must be clearly established and set down in order to ensure that those responsibilities continue to be met; 6. Points out that thematic strategies are not useful if they coincide in timing with large legislative dossiers, they are useful either before the appearance of the relevant legislative document or on their own; 7. Stresses the direct connection between the state of the human environment and human health; calls on the Commission, with the aim of implementing the 'health in all policies' approach, to draft studies indicating the causal relationship between change in the quality of the environment and change in the state of people's health; Thematic Strategies 8. Considers that the EU has acted consistently to attain the climate diplomacy objectives set in the Sixth EAP; recalls, however, that, as far as the objectives and priority actions to halt climate change are concerned, the EU has not succeeded in fulfilling all the commitments; is extremely concerned about the increase in transport emissions and the slow effect of the measures which have been used in an attempt to improve energy efficiency; reminds the Commission to publish a communication on quantified environmental objectives for a sustainable transport system; expects Member States to attain the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for individual countries laid down in the Kyoto Protocol by 2012; 9. Deplores the fact that the objective of halting the decline of biodiversity by 2010 will probably not be attained and that the proposed strategies for protecting the marine environment and soil will not produce concrete environmental results by 2012; notes that greater effort is needed to assist the integration of biodiversity policy into other policy areas; draws attention to the need for appropriate funding of Natura 2000 and other closely related priority objectives; 10. Considers that, as far as chemicals are concerned, Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and establishing a European Chemicals Agency OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1, Regulation as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1354/2007 (OJ L 304, 22.11.2007, p. 1). represents progress in reducing