the legal, audit and actuarial advice that [it] received and with very strong backing from policyholders and from action groups ", the Society proceeded to pursue its former directors and its former auditors for alleged breaches of duty " culminating in court proceedings [in 2005] " (Mr THOMSON, H2). The committee has received a number of documents from the Court case ELAS vs. Ernst&Young (WE-CONF 14). According to the court documents, two types of breach were alleged. First, in each of the years 1997, 1998 and 1999 it is alleged the statutory accounts should have included very substantial technical provisions in relation to GAOs. Second, for each of the years 1998 and 1999 it was also alleged that the accounts should have disclosed contingent liabilities and uncertainties in respect of the Hyman litigation. ELAS claimed to have suffered loss by not selling the business and assets (either in September 1998 or 2000), loss of the chance of such sales and loss by declaring bonuses which would not have been declared. Mr THOMSON (H2) pointed out that the loss pursued through these proceedings was corporate loss, i.e. the diminution of the value of the society as an entity and not individual policyholder losses. Eventually the Society had to drop the case because it was not able to establish a causal link between the alleged failures and the losses incurred. " To our great disappointment we were unable to establish that loss has been caused that could be attributed to [the] defendants " (Mr THOMSON, H2). In H8 Mr THOMSON deemed it " a pity that nobody can be held to account for what happened " because he would have " some difficulty in believing that this was entirely accidental " (H8). Mr CHASE GREY, however, believes that the court actions by ELAS against its former directors and auditors " were commenced ... not with the real intent of covering damages but to distract policyholders, to divert press attention and most probably to incur further wastages of time in the investigative process and the time allowed to policyholders under the Limitations acts to commence compensation proceedings " (WE 40 Page 4. ). " The ELAS Chairman ... - by profession a lawyer - and (the)Chief Executive ... have each explained (in my view with great hypocrisy) the need to discontinue these actions on the basis that ELAS in the course of the proceedings had found that they were unable to prove loss, a point a competent lawyer would have checked before proceedings commenced " (WE 40 Page 5. ). In a letter of 2 December 2005 addressed to policyholders (annexed to WE 35), ELAS provides the following explanations in relation to the litigation against former directors: " Your board launched the claims based on careful consideration of detailed legal advice. In the light of that advice, the Board considered that it would have been a dereliction of our duties as directors and our responsibilities to policyholders not to pursue the claims on your behalf, while it remained cost-effective to do so. We have continued