for an on-the-spot verification or in an investigation. Competent authorities which receive such requests shall, within the framework of their powers, act upon them by: a) carrying out the verifications themselves; b) allowing the authorities who have requested them to carry them out; or c) allowing auditors or experts to carry out the verification. 2. A competent authority may refuse to act on a request for cooperation in carrying out an investigation as provided for in paragraph 1 only where: a) such an investigation might adversely affect the sovereignty, security or public policy of the State addressed; b) judicial proceedings have already been initiated in respect of the same actions and the same persons before the authorities of the Member State addressed; c) final judgement has already been given in the Member State addressed in respect of the same persons and the same actions. In the case of such a refusal, the competent authority shall notify the requesting competent authority accordingly, providing as detailed information as possible. Article 55 Exchange of information 1. Competent authorities of Member States shall immediately supply one another with the information required for the purposes of carrying out their duties set out in the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive. Article 51 shall not prevent the competent authorities from exchanging information in accordance with this Directive. Competent authorities communicating information shall indicate what information, or part of it, thus supplied shall be considered confidential and therefore covered by professional secrecy. The Commission may adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2) , implementing measures concerning procedures for the exchange of information. 2. Competent authorities receiving confidential information under paragraph 1 of this Article or under Articles 52 and 59 may use it only in the course of their duties: a) to check that the conditions governing the taking up of the business of investment firms are met and to facilitate the monitoring, on a non-consolidated or consolidated basis, of the conduct of that business, especially with regard to the capital adequacy requirements imposed by Directive 93/6/EEC, administrative and accounting procedures and internal-control mechanisms; b) to monitor the proper functioning of trading venues; c) to impose sanctions; d) in administrative appeals against decisions by the competent authorities; or e) in court proceedings initiated under Article 49. However, where the competent authority communicating information consents thereto, the authority receiving the information may use it for other purposes. 3. Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article and Article 51 shall neither preclude the disclosure of information to bodies which administer compensation schemes where this is necessary for the performance of their functions nor the exchange of information needed for the performance of supervisory functions: a) within a Member State or between Member States, between competent authorities and i) bodies responsible for the liquidation and bankruptcy of investment firms and other similar procedures; ii) and persons responsible for carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of investment firms and other financial institutions and insurance undertakings, b) between competent authorities and the authorities or bodies of other Member States