Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (12 April 2005) 1. The Constitutional Treaty sets up as one of the objectives of the European Union (EU) the promotion and protection of the rights of the child. The Charter of Fundamental Rights, as inserted in Part II of the Constitutional Treaty, explicitly recognizes the fundamental rights of children. The Commission would like to assure you that it attaches special importance to the issue of the protection of children’s rights and is willing to develop a coherent policy in this field. The issue has been discussed in the Group of Commissioners on Fundamental Rights, Anti-discrimination and Equal Opportunities, set up by the President of the Commission. At the same time the Commission needs to inform the Honourable Member that the Community and the EU do not have general competence as regards fundamental rights under the terms of the Treaties on the European Union and establishing the European Community. It may intervene only in the case of violations of fundamental rights in the field of the application of Community legislation and the issue of infanticide is not a matter governed by Community law. 2.&3. Activities to prevent violent acts against newborn babies (including maltreatment, abandonment or killing), such as those mentioned by the Honourable Member may be supported under the second phase of the Community action programme to prevent and combat all forms of violence against children, young people and women and to protect victims and groups at risk – the Daphne II Programme Decision No 803/2004/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 adopting a programme of Community action (2004 to 2008) to prevent and combat violence against children, young people and women and to protect victims and groups at risk (the Daphne II programme), OJ L 143 , 30.4.2004 . The Daphne II Programme 2004-2008 is a five-year programme of Community action aimed at preventing and combating all forms of violence, occurring in the public or the private domain, against children, young people and women by taking preventive measures and by providing support for victims and groups at risk, including in particular the prevention of future exposure to violence. It further aims to assist and encourage non- governmental organisations and other organisations active in this field. It should be noted, however, that projects funded under the Daphne II Programme must be transnational in nature, and involve a partnership of at least two public (local level) or private non-profit organisations or institutions in at least two different States eligible for Daphne II Programme financing (i.e., EU Member States, the European Free Trade Association (EFTA)/European Economic Area (EEA) States and the candidate countries Romania, Bulgaria and Turkey). Financial support will therefore not be granted to organisations covering one country only. For further details regarding the scope and objectives of the Programme, the eligibility, selection and award criteria for Daphne funding, please visit the Daphne website: http://europa.eu.int/comm/justice_home/funding/daphne/funding_daphne_en.htm For further information regarding the more than 300 projects financed under the Daphne Programme since 1997, please visit the newly launched website