Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (10 October 2007) The Commission has taken into account the mentioned Parliament resolution when taking concrete measures to help improve the competitiveness of the EU textile and clothing sector. The Commission also carries on implementing recommendations for Community actions put forward by the Textiles High Level Group (hereinafter HLG) as set out in the HLG’s last report of 2006 http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/textile/documents/hlg_report_18_09_06.pdf . The Commission has commissioned a study to assess the consequences of the textile and clothing liberalisation on producer and consumer prices in Europe. The findings of this study show that quota liberalisation has had a substantial impact on both producer and consumer prices across EU‑15. Changes in import prices, linked to the Agreement on Textiles and Clothing (ATC) liberalisation stages, led directly to changes in producer prices, on a comparable order of magnitude, within the industry. The changes in producer prices also lead to substantial average drops in real consumer prices. On average, clothing prices fell 16,2 % relative to consumer prices over the ATC phase-out period for EU15. There are, however, geographic variations around this trend. The greatest decrease in consumer prices is apparent in Ireland and Great Britain, where clothing prices have fallen by about 50 % while consumer prices in Italy and Spain have remained largely unchanged during this period. Meanwhile, in Greece, clothing prices actually went up relative to the overall price level. Consumer price reductions depend to an important part on the structure of the national service sector and in particular the retail sector. The study has been published on the website http://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/docs/2007/june/tradoc_134778.pdf . The application of Trade Defence Instruments (TDI) contributes to provide industry with a level playing field when faced with cases of unfair trade. In line with its long-standing practice to regularly review and as necessary adapt the EU's Trade Defence Instruments to changes occurring in the global and European economic context the Commission adopted a Green Paper COM(2006)763 final. on the functioning of these instruments and launched a wide ranging reflection process with stakeholders in December 2006. The current review on TDI — which generated considerable interest among stakeholders who have submitted more than 540 replies to the Green Paper, posted on the external website of the Directorate-General responsible for Trade, does not put these instruments or their use into question. The Commission is working on proposals drawing on these inputs on eventual changes to current TDI rules and practice. The aim of these proposals is neither to weaken nor to strengthen the current TDI rules but to make them clearer, more transparent and more consistent. The proposals will reflect the need to counter unfair competition and other misconduct by third country operators, to increase the efficiency of the enforcement of measures and further to enhance the transparency and predictability of TDI proceedings. This readiness to tackle unfair competition applies to all sectors for which TDI can be used, including the textile and clothing industry. It should be noted that the TDI Green Paper process and the proposals to be formulated by