practices but had remained totally unheeded by the GAD see also 'timeline' in Section III.2.6 of this Part. . A 'light touch attitude' exudes from a letter of January 2001, i.e. just weeks after the mass resignation of the EL board and its closure to new business, to the German regulator BAV. In this letter, the FSA reiterated the point that " EL remains solvent, existing policies remain valid and it is able to meet its contractual obligations to policyholders." It even claimed that "many of the press reports in relation to EL have been inaccurate and speculative" and added peremptorily that the FSA "will not be requiring the company to provide a new valuation." Or, as summed up by policyholders' representative Ms. KWANTES (H7): " I think the truth was the regulators were asleep at the wheel. They appeared to stand in awe of Equitable and handled it with kid gloves ... If the regulator was aware that Equitable had problems why didn't they say something? If they were not aware, they were not doing their job of regulation properly." These allegations, in particular the " lack of challenge to EL's senior management by the UK regulators" were emphatically rejected by WE-CONF8, which referred directly to the findings of the First Parliamentary Ombudsman's report sections 168-170 and para.9 of the summary of findings, claiming that the FSA (with GAD) could not be said to have addressed the GAR reserving issue and any misrepresentation of EL's financial position " in anything less than a resolute manner", that their approach could not be described as 'passive' and that " FSA continued to insist throughout that Equitable conform to their full reserving requirements in the face of strong resistance from Equitable ." . It equally dismissed any claims of inaction in investigating the responsibilities of EL's auditors Ernst & Young, an issue considered to be " a matter for the professional bodies ". Equally dismissed were claims of not preventing EL management from engaging in legal action against its auditors, on the grounds that " EL had a discrete set of legal and fiduciary obligations to its policyholders and was entirely responsible for its own decisions ." 1e) Claims of Regulators' excessive 'deference' to EL In H5, Mr. BAYLISS described how an attitude of deference by the regulators towards Equitable Life existed at the time, due "to the fact that Roy Ranson instilled – and it was him principally as an individual – the huge belief that Equitable could do no wrong. It oversold to itself and to its 300 salesmen. It was not criminal until the end, but it was mismanagement and it was not halted by the regulator as it should have been ... This was down to Equitable’s stature and the value it was perceived to have in the marketplace. It was supposedly the ‘good company’, and better than the others, so much better than the rest ... I do not think we have finished the learning curve ..." Not excluding financial sector company failures in the future, Mr. BAYLISS concluded