Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (8 February 2008) Contacts between the Commission and the Bulgarian Government on the issue of children’s rights and childcare institutions took place in the framework of the Commission’s regular monitoring activities prior to Bulgaria’s accession to the European Union. In all the accession reports concerning Bulgaria, the Commission closely monitored the implementation of the de-institutionalisation policies as well as efforts to improve living conditions in institutions and the creation of alternative services such as foster families. In this regard, legislative modifications were introduced by Bulgaria in September 2003. These reforms targeted the training of staff, the decentralisation of services and the establishment of cooperation structures between local authorities and non governmental organisations (NGOs) active in the field of child protection, social inclusion and particularly those working with children living in institutions. The last regular monitoring report prior to Bulgaria’s accession COM(2006)549 final. concluded that Bulgaria had made some progress in the area of child protection. Consequently, the improvement of child protection was not a condition for the accession of Bulgaria to the European Union. However, in its evaluation of the Bulgarian strategic report on social protection and social inclusion, the Commission considered, in its joint report of 23 February 2007, that the continuing reform of the long time care institutions system remains a challenge for the Bulgarian authorities. The Commission will continue to monitor progress in this area particularly under the next national strategic reports cycle which covers the period 2009‑11. In addition, under the new financial perspective 2007‑13 of the structural funds, one of the main objectives of the European Social Fund (ESF) is to promote social inclusion and equal treatment for all. The Bulgarian operational programme ‘Development of human resources’ funded by the ESF includes, as a priority, social inclusion, and the support for social economy. The objective of this is, amongst others, the improvement of services provided in care institutions and the continuation of the deinstitutionalisation process. Projects carried out will be carefully audited. As far as the EU funding of Bulgarian childcare institutions prior to the accession is concerned, there was a grant scheme ‘Component 1’ under Phare 2004 dealing with de-institutionalisation and childcare. It was assessed by independent evaluators who found that overall the grant scheme was satisfactory, with some critical remarks on delivery of the planned results Monitoring of FM 2003 and FM 2004 Grant Schemes in Bulgaria: Deinstitutionalization through provision of community based services for risk groups, BG 2004/016‑711.01.02 . In regard to the post- accession financial aid, there have not been any audits yet.