while the Greens; GUE/NGL and IND/DEM groups were generally in favour of shorter extensions to avoid citizens ending up financing the industry through inflated prices. Anne FERREIRA (PES, FR) for example, called for a fixed protection period of three months, with a further three months for companies with a turnover of under 100 million euro. "This is an important question for our social security systems and for all citizens," she said, "as it is public money which will end up paying for all of this." Dagmar ROTH-BEHRENDT (PES, DE) said some of the disagreements reflected national special interests, a reference to the Poland and Hungary which are calling for shorter periods of patent protection in order to benefit their generic pharmaceuticals producers. "This is a pitiful, cheap debate," she said. "Parents of sick children will not understand it. We must think about the interests of patients, not national interests." Commissioner Gunter VERHEUGEN told MEPs the six month fixed period was essential: "This system would be simple to use, is predictable, will produce less bureaucracy and is compatible with existing patent law. The Commission is not prepared to accept and compromise on this point ... I ask Members to think of the interests of children, which are far more important than one lobby or another." In the end, the plenary decided to support the line of the rapporteur and Commission: there will be a fixed extension of six months. A revision clause sets out that this point should be re-evaluated six years after entering force. Press enquiries: André Riche (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73840 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 40992 Mobile: (32) 0498.983.585 e-mail : envi-press@europarl.eu.int Environment Mining waste: no major tightening of the rules Jonas SJÖSTEDT (GUE/NGL, SE) Report on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the management of waste from extractive industries and amending Directive 2004/35/EC (16075/1/2004 – C6-0128/2005 – 2003/0107(COD)) Doc.: A6-0236/2005 Procedure : Codecision (2nd reading) Debate : 05.09.2005 Vote : 06.09.2005 Parliament adopted its second reading recommendation on mining waste. Reversing the position of its Environment Committee, the plenary rejected most of the amendments proposed in the report by Jonas SJÖSTEDT (GUE/NGL, SE). In its common position, the Council exempted a particular category of waste from some of the measures required by the directive. The majority of MEPs in the Environment Committee had opposed this exemption, but the plenary agreed with the Council, rejecting the two amendments to this point. It was mainly MEPs from the EPP-ED group who wanted to follow the Council line. Some of the provisions of the directive will therefore not apply uniformly to " non-hazardous non-inert " waste, with the Member States able to opt-out. MEPs also voted against amendments requiring former mining sites to be cleaned up, which would have had consequences in particular for some of the new Member States. During the debate which preceded the vote, some Polish MEPs said that this requirement would be too costly to implement - and their argument prevailed. Parliament had included this requirement at the first