Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (30 November 2010) The Commission is collecting information on sites protected under the Habitats Directive OJ L 206, 22.7.1992 . (Natura 2000 sites) in the form of the so called ‘Natura 2000 Standard Data Form’. This standardised form is the basis for the production of the community list of sites, for assessments as to the sufficiency of the network to protect the relevant habitats and species and for a range of wider analysis. The information is publicly available via the ‘Natura 2000 public viewer’ (http://natura2000.eea.europa.eu/). Member States are held to keep up to date the forms, providing an accurate documentation of the network. The main tool to analyse the effectiveness of the directive as a whole (of which Natura 2000 is the main instrument), is reporting under Article 17 of the Habitats Directive. The focus of this reporting is on the assessment of conservation status of species and habitat-types as achieving a favourable status is the overarching objective of the directive. These assessments have to be provided by Member States every 6 years and they are compiled and analysed by the Commission together with the European Environment Agency and the European Topic Centre on Biological Diversity. The last reports were received in 2007 and the Commission composite report was published in mid‑2009 Report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament Composite — Report on the Conservation Status of Habitat Types and Species as required under Article 17 of the Habitats Directive; COM(2009)358 final. . Detailed analysis of the data can be found in the online technical report (http://biodiversity.eionet.europa.eu/article17). On the last part of his question, the Commission would refer the Honourable Member to the nature and biodiversity website of the Commission (http://ec.europa.eu/environment/nature/index_en.htm), which holds a lot of interesting information on conservation in relation to socioeconomic activities. In relation to the balance between promoting the protection of biodiversity and socioeconomic requirements, many good examples exist on these and can go hand in hand (e.g. agricultural, forestry or fisheries management). When it comes to major projects with important impacts on Natura 2000 sites, the Commission is under certain circumstances required to give an opinion before the project can be realised and from these opinions it can be seen that in the large majority of cases a positive opinion was given, acknowledging overriding public interests. The Commission is also working intensively on guidance documents in cooperation with various economic sectors. Such documents have recently been completed for wind-energy and non‑energy mineral extraction.