Reiterates its conviction that a European information and communications policy based on the principles of pluralism, openness and diversity would strengthen public debate and awareness - especially among young people - of the benefits of European co-operation within the framework of the EU; believes that the key principles of the EU's information policy should be decentralised implementation , notably through existing Commission offices, coordination (especially between the efforts of the Commission and of the Parliament), targeting, and the best use of information technology; continues to believe that greater cooperation between the EU and the applicant countries in this field would help to ensure that forthcoming enlargements are successful; 10. In order to achieve a greater level of democracy, the Commission ought to promote and finance more information and publicity programmes concerning the EU, its institutions and the results of its activities, including the criteria for the granting of aid, the allocation of funds and the selection of projects; 11. Considers that the White Paper ought to take as its primary model for citizen consultation and information the existing arrangements within democratic systems, and should take account of the diversity of democratic models recognised by the constitutions of the various countries; 12. Calls, as a complement to an effective information and communication strategy and in line with the Union's commitment to maximising openness and transparency, for an end to the secrecy surrounding voting in Council and for public access to Council meetings. 16 October 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEN'S RIGHTS AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Commission White Paper on European governance ( COM(2001) 428 – C5-0454/2001 – 2001/2181(COS)) Draftsman: Maj Britt Theorin PROCEDURE The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities appointed Maj Britt Theorin draftsman at its meeting of 1 October 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 15 and 16 October 2001. At the last meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Maj Britt Theorin, chairman and draftsperson; Anne E.M. Van Lancker , vice-chairman; María Antonia Avilés Perea, Marie-Hélène Gillig, Lissy Gröner, Mary Honeyball, Juan de Dios Izquierdo Collado, Anna Karamanou, Maria Martens, María Rodríguez Ramos, Patsy Sörensen, Joke Swiebel, Helena Torres Marques, Elena Valenciano Martínez-Orozco, Lousewies van der Laan, Sabine Zissener SHORT JUSTIFICATION The reasons for the reform of European governance, according to the White Paper, are summarized as follows. - a perceived inability of the Union to act effectively where a clear case exists, such as unemployment, food safety threats, crime etc; - where the Union does act effectively, it rarely gets proper credit for its actions; - Member States do not communicate well about what the Union is doing and what they are doing in the Union; “Brussels” is too easily blamed; - many people do not know the difference between the Institutions, and they do not understand who takes the decisions that affect them. The five principles which are the basis for the proposals are: openness, participation, accountability, effectiveness and coherence. “Governance” means rules, processes and behaviour that affect