captain of a ship bound for a port or offshore terminal under the jurisdiction of a Member State or which wishes to drop anchor in an area under the jurisdiction of a Member State in the cases set out in Article 8 shall notify the authorities of that Member State that a financial guarantee certificate is being carried on board in accordance with the provisions of Annex IV . 4. The competent authorities of the Member States may share the information provided for in paragraph 1 through the SafeSeaNet Community platform for maritime data exchange. Article 11 Penalties Member States shall monitor compliance with the rules laid down in this Directive and shall establish penalties for the infringement of these rules. These penalties shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. Article 12 Mutual recognition by Member States of financial guarantee certificates Member States shall recognise certificates issued or certified by another Member State under Article 9 for all purposes of this Directive and shall consider them as having the same value as certificates which it issued or certified itself, even when the ship is not registered in a Member State. A Member State may at any time request an exchange of views with the issuing or certifying State should it believe that the insurer or guarantor named on the certificate is not financially capable of meeting the obligations imposed by this Directive. Article 13 Direct action against the provider of the financial guarantee for civil liability The provider of the financial guarantee covering the owner's civil liability shall be directly liable for compensation for loss or damage caused by the ship . The provider of the financial guarantee may rely on any defence which the owner himself would be entitled to raise , with the exception of those based on the owner's bankruptcy or liquidation . The provider of the financial guarantee may also rely on the fact that the loss or damage was the result of an act or omission of the owner committed intentionally . However, it may not rely on any defence which it could have raised in an action brought against it by the owner. The provider of the financial guarantee may, in all cases, require the owner to be joined in the proceedings. Article 14 Solidarity fund to cover damage caused by ships without a financial guarantee A solidarity fund shall be set up to compensate third parties, whether natural or legal persons, that have suffered damage caused by ships which, notwithstanding the obligations laid down in this Directive, have sailed in EU territorial waters without being in possession of a financial guarantee certificate. The amount to be allotted to this fund, and the fund's operating rules, shall be determined in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 17(2). Article 15 Community Office A Community Office shall be established which shall be responsible for keeping a full register of certificates issued, monitoring and updating their validity, and checking the existence of financial guarantees registered by third countries. Article 16 Reports Five years after the date of