declared, " With this framework directive, the EU is equipped with a new tool in the protection of the environment. Almost 80% of environmental pollution stem from the design phase of production. It is therefore important to tackle the problem from its source ." Since the Commission had not set out any specific measures in its initial proposal, MEPs, in the short term, insisted that implementation measures begin to be looked at in the following two years in eight priority areas, which are seen as having the greatest potential for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. These products are identified as, in order: - heating and water heating equipment; - electric motor systems; - lighting in both the domestic and tertiary sectors; - domestic appliances; - office equipment in both the domestic and tertiary sectors; - consumer electronic, heating ventilating and air conditioning systems (HVAC): - and a separate implementing measure reducing stand-by losses for a group of products. Together, these priority axes would prevent nearly 200 million tonnes of CO2 from entering the atmosphere, which is the level of pollution generated by a country the size of the Netherlands, and is half-way towards the target established by the EU in the context of the Kyoto Protocol. Beyond these eight priority axes, Parliament also establishes one implementation measure per product group, except where rendered superfluous by self-regulation agreements between manufacturers. That said, any such agreements will be governed by clear criteria, carefully set out in the text voted by MEPs. Manufacturers and distributors will have to conform to a broad area of eco-design requirements. Energy consumption objectives will be fixed in a manner that takes into account the best performing products on the international market. On the question of assistance, Member States are called upon to ensure that small and medium sized firms have the necessary adaptation resources to cope with future European legislation, in particular by strengthening support networks and structures. It is recognised that consumers also have a role to play. Specific implementation measures will set out the manufacturers' consumer information obligations as regards the ecological profile of the product and the benefits of eco-design. Finally, they will have to inform the consumer about the role they may play in reducing energy consumption by sustainable use of the product. The rapporteur was congratulated for the balance reached in the text negotiated with the Council, for the priority given to energy efficiency, and for the clarification of the obligations of all parties - manufacturers, distributors, Commission. However, not all of the MEPs were satisfied. " My group is not really very happy but it is the best result we can get ", said Karin SCHEELE (PES, AT). Peter LIESE (EPP-ED, DE), on the other hand, said that the PE had obtained " an excellent result ", underlining that the concluded agreement would involve less bureaucracy for SMEs. This view was in sharp opposition to that held by Holger KRAHMER (ALDE, DE), who considered the text to be a " bureaucratic monster ". While Claude TURMES (Greens/EFA, LU) deplored the Commission's allocation of just