the major storms in the United Kingdom in June and July 2007. The grant will go towards reimbursing part of the cost of emergency measures such as rescue services, cleaning up after flood damage, and restoring basic infrastructure. New technologies for active ageing and longer independent living Helping older people to stay healthier and to live independently for longer is the aim of a new research programme on "Ambient Assisted Living" (AAL) says the co-decision report by Neena GILL (PES, UK). It will develop new information and communication technology (ICT), to enable more elderly people to access public services more easily, but these services must nonetheless respect their privacy and dignity, say MEPs. Common rules for safeguarding civil aviation - sky marshals must be "specially selected and trained" The European Parliament adopted a new regulation that aims to ensure a high level of aviation security throughout the EU. It lays down common rules and standards, such as screening of passengers and cabin baggage, access control and aircraft security checks. The regulation also deals with in-flight-security measures, such as the deployment of "sky marshals" and the carriage of weapons on board an aircraft. The conciliation was approved with 583 votes in favour, 21 against and 35 abstentions. MEPs debate the situation in Gaza and Israel Opening a debate on the situation in Gaza and Israel, President Pöttering asked "What can Europeans do? In his view, the answer was that Europe must help push forward the peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians. "The peace process launched at Annapolis must not founder on violence and terror", he stressed. Support democratic governance in Iraq, and increase EU presence on the ground, say MEPs The Council should become more actively engaged in assistance to Iraq and also improve the transparency of its aid to the country, says a report by Ana Gomes (PES, PT) on the EU's role in Iraq adopted with 506 votes in favour, 25 against and 26 abstentions. It calls on the Council to "step up the quantity, but especially the quality, of EU support for UN efforts to build a safe, stable, unified, prosperous and democratic Iraq." Congestion charges and road-pricing supported by the European Parliament Parliament adopted an own-initiative report by 539 votes in favour, 78 against and 25 abstentions on sustainable European transport policy, which says that the problem of urban congestion, which causes 40% of CO2 emissions and 70% of other pollutant emissions from vehicles, needs to be tackled more ambitiously, by applying a Europe-wide cooperation and coordination strategy. Minimum taxes for diesel should rise to equal petrol tax minimums The current EU-wide minimum rate of tax on diesel should be increased to match the current minimum rate for unleaded petrol, but no further, say MEPs. They also want to set a limit on further petrol and diesel tax increases in the Member States which already have the highest taxes. Women in rural areas Parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the situation of women in rural areas of the EU, Christa KLAß (EPP-ED, DE) for the Women's Rights committee which