bodies. (19) Since the objective of the proposed action, namely the promotion of European cooperation to improve the quality and accessibility of education and training by an effective use of e-learning, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore by reason of the transnational dimension of the actions and measures necessary be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Decision does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. (20) This Decision lays down for the entire duration of the e Learning programme a financial framework constituting the prime reference, within the meaning of point 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure OJ C 172, 18.6.1999, p. 1. Agreement as amended by Decision 2003/429/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 147, 14.6.2003, p. 25). , for the budgetary authority during the annual budgetary procedure. (21) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. , HAVE DECIDED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 Establishment of the programme 1. This Decision establishes the e Learning Programme, a multiannual programme for the improvement of the quality and accessibility of European education and training systems through the effective use of information and communication technologies (ICT), hereinafter referred to as "the programme". 2. The programme shall be implemented over a period starting on 1 January 2004 and ending on 31 December 2006. Article 2 Objectives of the programme 1. The overall objective of the programme is to support and develop further the effective use of ICT in European education and training systems, as a contribution to a quality education and an essential element of their adaptation to the needs of the knowledge society in a lifelong learning context. 2. The specific objectives of the programme are: a) to identify the actors concerned and inform them of ways and means of using e-learning for promoting digital literacy and thereby contribute to strengthening social cohesion and personal development and fostering intercultural dialogue; b) to exploit the potential of e-learning for enhancing the European dimension in education; c) to provide mechanisms for supporting development of European quality products and services, and for exchange and transfer of good practice; d) to exploit the potential of e-learning in the context of innovation in teaching methods with a view to improving the quality of the learning process and fostering the autonomy of learners. Article 3 Areas of intervention of the Programme 1. The objectives of the programme shall be pursued in the following areas of intervention, in accordance with the action lines described in the Annex: a)