the common frame of reference for European contract law ( B6-0374/2008 ) The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 03.09.2008, item 7.6 . 23 Certain issues relating to motor insurance (debate) Report: on certain issues relating to motor insurance [ 2007/2258(INI) ] - Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. Rapporteur: Nickolay Mladenov ( A6-0249/2008 ) Nickolay Mladenov introduced the report. The following spoke: Meglena Kuneva (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Othmar Karas (draftsman of the opinion of the JURI Committee), Andreas Schwab , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Diana Wallis , on behalf of the ALDE Group, and Malcolm Harbour . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Zita Pleštinská , Milan Gaľa and Colm Burke . The following spoke: Meglena Kuneva and Nickolay Mladenov . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 02.09.2008, item 5.18 . 24 Coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud (debate) Report: on a co-ordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud [ 2008/2033(INI) ] - Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Rapporteur: Sharon Bowles ( A6-0312/2008 ) Sharon Bowles introduced the report. The following spoke: László Kovács (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Othmar Karas (draftsman of the opinion of the JURI Committee), Werner Langen , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Benoît Hamon , on behalf of the PSE Group, Zbigniew Krzysztof Kuźmiuk , on behalf of the UEN Group, Hans-Peter Martin , Non-attached Member, Zsolt László Becsey , Antolín Sánchez Presedo , Desislav Chukolov and Astrid Lulling . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Andrzej Jan Szejna . The following spoke: László Kovács and Sharon Bowles . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 02.09.2008, item 5.19 . 25 Agenda of the next sitting The agenda of the next day's sitting had been established ('Agenda' PE 411.060/OJMA). 26 Closure of the sitting The sitting closed at 24.00. Harald R ømer Hans-Gert Pöttering Secretary-General President ATTENDANCE REGISTER The following signed: Adamou Agnoletto Aita Allister Alvaro Andrejevs Andrikienė Angelilli Arif Arnaoutakis Ashworth Attard-Montalto Attwooll Aubert Audy Auken Ayala Sender Aylward Ayuso Baco Badia i Cutchet Baeva Barón Crespo Barsi-Pataky Bartolozzi Basile Batten Batzeli Bauer Beaupuy Beazley Becsey Belder Belet Belohorská Bennahmias Beňová Berès Binev Birutis Blokland Bloom Bobošíková Bodu Böge Bösch Bono Bonsignore Booth Borghezio Borrell Fontelles Boso Boştinaru Botopoulos Boursier Bowis Bowles Bozkurt Bradbourn Braghetto Brejc Brepoels Breyer Březina Brok Budreikaitė van Buitenen Buitenweg Bulfon Bullmann Bulzesc van den Burg Burke Bushill-Matthews Busk Buşoi Busquin Busuttil Buzek Cabrnoch Callanan Camre Capoulas Santos Cappato Carlotti Carnero González Casa Casaca Casini Caspary Castex Cavada Cederschiöld Cercas Chatzimarkakis Chichester Chiesa Chmielewski Christensen Chruszcz Chukolov Ciani Claeys Clark Cocilovo Cohn-Bendit Corbett Corbey Corda Cottigny Coûteaux Cramer Cremers Corina Creţu Gabriela Creţu Crowley Csibi Marek Aleksander Czarnecki Ryszard Czarnecki Dahl Dăianu Daul David Davies De Blasio de Brún Degutis De Keyser Demetriou Deprez De Sarnez Descamps Désir Deß Deva De Veyrac De Vits Díaz de Mera García Consuegra Dičkutė Dillen Dimitrakopoulos Dobolyi Dombrovskis Donnici Doorn Douay Dover Doyle Drčar Murko Duchoň Dührkop Dührkop Duff Duka-Zólyomi Ebner Ek El Khadraoui Elles Esteves