defending peaceful resistance." 20101213BKG09328 Fariñas chosen from three finalists Guillermo Fariñas competed with Israeli NGO Breaking the Silence and Ethiopian politician Birtukan Mideksa, also shortlisted for the 2010 Sakharov Prize. Mr Fariñas was nominated by the Group of the European People's Party, the European Conservatives and Reformists Group, Edvard Kožušník and 91 other MEPs. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left supported the nomination of Breaking the Silence, while Birtukan Mideksa was backed up by the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament. Breaking the Silence works to shed light on the injustices of the Israeli occupation of the West Bank, Gaza Strip, and East Jerusalem, through exposing the Israeli public to the realities of the occupation as seen through the eyes of Israeli soldiers. Birtukan Mideksa is a politician and former judge, fighting for democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Ethiopia. Each September, candidates for the Sakharov prize are nominated by political groups and at least 40 MEPs. After discussions on the proposed contenders, a joint vote of the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Development decides the short list of 3 nominees. In October, the final winner is then chosen by the Conference of Presidents. The prize is then awarded during the Parliament's plenary session in December in Strasbourg. The Sakharov Prize and the EP commitment to human rights The Sakharov Prize is the European Parliament's way of honouring outstanding achievements in the ­fight to protect freedom of thought and expression against intolerance, fanaticism and hatred. This reflects the Parliament's conviction that fundamental freedoms include not only the right to life and physical integrity, but also freedom of expression and of the press. The prize is named after Andrei Sakharov (1921-1989) a renowned physicist, dissident and Nobel Peace Prize winner. The European Parliament is committed to ensuring that rights and freedoms are defended and promoted, both within and outside the European Union. The Parliament promotes initiatives in areas such as torture prevention, the protection of minorities, conflict prevention, the promotion of women's rights and children's rights and the protection of human rights activists. Each year, the Parliament publishes a report on human rights around the world, while every month it adopts urgent resolutions on serious human rights violations or attacks on freedom of speech. This year's report, drafted by Laima Liucija Andrikienė (EPP, LT) advocated a strong and effective EU human rights policy that guarantees greater consistency between internal and external policies. This was the first EP human rights report drafted following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, and addresses issues such as a global moratorium on death penalty, violence against women, children's rights and the fate of Guantánamo prisoners. Previous winners of the Sakharov Prize 2009 Memorial 2008 Hu Jia 2007 Salih Mahmoud Osman 2006 Alaksandar Milinkievič 2005 Ladies in White, Reporters Without Frontiers, Hauwa Ibrahim 2004 Belarusian Association of Journalists 2003 Kofi Annan and the United Nations staff 2002 Oswaldo José Payá Sardiñas 2001 Izzat Ghazzawi, Nurit Peled-Elhanan and