Thursday Plenary in Brussels: climate roadmap, Roma, postal services Institutions 2008-02-01 - 13:46 Roma language classes in Slovakia Thursday saw MEPs adopt resolutions on an action plan to combat climate change and on a European strategy to improve the position of the 10 million Roma people in the EU. MEPs also voted on the liberalisation of postal services in a second reading vote on legislation. This is likely to lead to the EU's postal services open for greater competition. A report on steps to improve energy saving were also agreed. Thursday also saw an incident in the Chamber sparked by a row over a procedural matter. Climate change roadmap on track A resolution adopted by MEPs welcomed the Bali roadmap's 2009 deadline for the conclusion of an international agreement on climate change. Though satisfied that the Bali Action Plan contains "a clear timetable" for reaching agreement, MEPs regretted "that it was not possible to make unambiguous references to science in relation to the necessary greenhouse gas reductions". They welcomed, however, the Kyoto Protocol parties' recognition of the need for industrialised countries to cut emissions by 25-40% (compared to 1990 levels) by 2020. The EP also called for the WTO to consider "temporary measures that favour the manufacture and export of climate-friendly products and innovative technology". Call for better rights for Roma people Out of the 12 to 15 million Roma living in Europe, about 10 million live in EU countries. A majority of them became EU citizens after the 2004 and 2007 enlargements. MEPs believe Roma communities still suffer clear discrimination and adopted a resolution on the European Strategy on the Roma warning of the risks of anti-Gypsy sentiments promoted by extremists. They call for renewed efforts to integrate Roma through positive measures in housing, health, education and employment. Parliament condemned substandard and unsanitary living conditions and wide scale "ghettoisation" of Romani people. Calls for steps to get more Roma people into the labour market and the use of more training. MEPs also want the Commission to strengthen anti-discrimination legislation in education. Other votes Other votes during the day included two reports reported in detail elsewhere on this site: a legislative report on European postal services and a non-binding but keenly-followed report on energy conservation. On postal services, Parliament voted for a general ending of postal monopolies in Europe by 2011, with a few exceptions until 2013. This outcome effectively seals an agreement with Council, which had already accepted Parliament's position on the subject. On energy conservation, Parliament's vote drew widespread attention across the continent as a pointer to the direction of European energy conservation policy. Parliament focused on domestic energy use and on private homes in particular, while the headlines homed in on the report's recommendation on outdoor "patio" heaters. Incident in the chamber In the course of proceedings a point of order raised by a British Member Daniel Hannan (EPP-ED), during which he drew a parallel between some of the European Parliament’s procedures and parliamentary manoeuvrings in 1930s Germany, provoked strong protests from MEPs across the House. Later in the