{ "context": [ [ "Peter Masak", [ "Peter C. Masak (August 17, 1957 – May 22, 2004) was an engineer, inventor, and glider pilot.", " He graduated with a Bachelor of Applied Science degree in Mechanical Engineering in May 1981 from the University of Waterloo, Ontario Canada.", " He earned his glider pilot license at the age of 16 and his power pilot license at the age of 18, the minimum ages for both.", " Peter was a Canadian soaring record holder and represented Canada and later the United States in the World Gliding Championships.", " He logged almost 2000 hours of glider flight time.", " He was living in West Chester, Pennsylvania with his wife Adrienne and their three children when he died." ] ], [ "DUATS", [ "DUATS, or Direct User Access Terminal Service is a weather information and flight plan processing service contracted by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for use by United States civil pilots and other authorized users.", " The DUAT Service is a telephone- and Internet-based system which allows the pilot to use a personal computer for access to a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) database to obtain weather and aeronautical information and to file, amend, and cancel domestic IFR and VFR flight plans.", " The DUAT Service provides direct access to weather information via a National Airspace System (NAS) Data Interchange Network II (NADIN-II) interface to the Weather Message Switching Center Replacement (WMSCR) System and the Air traffic control (ATC) Facilities for filing flight plans.", " The pilot users can interface the DUAT Services via the FTS-2001 toll free telephone numbers or via an Internet Interface into the Contractor's Facility." ] ], [ "Doris Grove", [ "Doris Grove is an American world record breaking glider pilot, flight instructor, and a member of the U.S. Soaring Hall of Fame.", " She was an early pioneer of ridge soaring in the Ridge-and-valley Appalachians in the 1970s, ultimately setting three world records flying gliders there, and becoming the first woman to earn the FAI 1000 km Diploma.", " She was also a stunt co-pilot in the 1999 film \"The Thomas Crown Affair\"." ] ], [ "George B. Moffat Jr.", [ "George B. Moffat Jr. is an author, twice world champion glider pilot, and a member of the U.S. Soaring Hall of Fame.", " He began flying airplanes in 1953, gliders in 1959, entered his first national soaring competition in 1962, and was still an active competition pilot as of 2008.", " Before competing in sailplanes, he compiled a winning record in International 14 foot Dinghy racing and is still an active sailor." ] ], [ "The Thomas Crown Affair (1999 film)", [ "The Thomas Crown Affair is a 1999 American heist film directed by John McTiernan.", " The film, starring Pierce Brosnan, Rene Russo and Denis Leary, is a remake of the 1968 film of the same name.", " The film generally received positive reviews.", " It was a success at the box office, grossing $124 million worldwide." ] ], [ "Dick Johnson (glider pilot)", [ "Richard H. Johnson