economic diversification and mitigating the social consequences of adjustment. The Banana Accompanying Measures programme will apply to ten ACP banana exporters (Belize, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Ghana, Jamaica, St Lucia, St Vincent & the Grenadines, and Suriname), including two non-traditional exporters (Ghana and Dominican Republic). In addition to the traditional focus on competitiveness and diversification, the programme will also seek to address broader employment, educational, health and environmental adjustment issues. Implementation of the programme should begin in 2011 and run through 2013. Measures supported under the programme will involve: support to investments in competitiveness improvements; support to economic diversification policies; support to broader social, economic and environmental adjustments. The measures to be supported will be determined jointly by the beneficiary government and the Commission. Country allocations will be based on three criteria: - the volume of the banana trade with the EU; - the importance of bananas exports to the EU to the country’s economy; - the level of development of the country (such as its HDI rating). The allocation amounts to an average of €5 million per beneficiary country per annum. ACP concerns Traditional ACP banana exporters have been concerned about the serious social, economic and political dislocation that could result from the banana agreements. ACP believe that in order to minimise potential losses to ACP banana exporters following the banana deal and other bilateral tariff concessions granted to Latin American banana exporters, a far larger level of financial support to production and trade adjustment measures in ACP banana-exporting countries would be needed. European banana producers The support for the EU banana sector is provided through the POSEI (Programme d'options spécifiques à l'éloignement et l'insularité) envelope. As a result of the reform of the EU's Common Market Organisation for bananas in 2006, European banana producers in the outermost regions receive €279 million annually within this envelope. However, as the reform of POSEI was carried out in 2006, it did not take into account the future reductions of tariffs for imported bananas. It is therefore not clear whether the current POSEI envelope is sufficient to ensure that European banana producers are able to withstand the pressures created by the increasing liberalization of the global trade in bananas. Their competitiveness and their actual existence may therefore be threatened as a result of the WTO Agreements on Trade in Banana. Bilateral accords The recent bilateral agreements concluded with Colombia and Peru, and Central America (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama) offer a even better preferential treatment to exports from these countries (a duty of €75/t by 2020, in a series of incremental reductions). This will cause the ACP’s preferential margin to erode even further. Ecuador - the world’s biggest banana exporter, which is not currently a party to the bilateral accords - is worried. In fact, as Colombia and Costa Rica, Ecuador's main competitors in banana exports, have better tariffs, they could easily take over Ecuador's share of the EU market. Although the country will benefit from the Geneva Agreement cuts, by 2020 every tonne of Ecuadorian bananas exported