pending. A total of 50 complaints were Penrose-related and not therefore investigated (see below). Latest figures submitted by the FOS See WE 90. indicate that by 31 March 2007 7377 complaints have been completed and 752 are still pending. Awards of compensation have been made in 2087 of these complaints. In view of the high number of complaints received, FOS decided to group together cases which appeared to involve similar issues and focus initially on investigating “lead cases” from each group. The lead cases adjudicated by the FOS were the following Each of the lead case adjudications is discussed in more detail in ES 3, pages 40 to 46. : · The "N case" involved advice given by Equitable in 1990. FOS dismissed the complaint on the grounds that, at that time, the GAR risk was only theoretical. · The "H case" involved advice given before 20 March 1998. FOS dismissed the complaint on the grounds that, although the GAR issue had been discussed in professional circles at that time, there was no firm evidence to suggest that Equitable was aware of it. · In the "E case", FOS upheld the complaint relating to advice given between September 1998 and July 2000 (the date of the Hyman judgment) on the ground that, at that time, Equitable had knowledge of the risk and ought to have disclosed it to policyholders. · Similarly, in the "G case", FOS upheld complaints relating to advice given between 20 March and August 1998. · The "O case" involved advice given after the judgment in Hyman. FOS decided that Equitable had no duty to advise specifically that the sale of the Society might fail and it was justified in presenting the prospect of a sale in a positive light. ES 3 Page 43. outlines how the FOS calculated compensation in relation to the two lead cases it upheld: " FOS held that Mrs E should receive compensation that should put her in the position she would have been in if she had not invested with Equitable Life. Given, however, that the stock market fell after the purchase of her policy, it would be unfair to compensate Mrs E for losses due to falls in the stock market that would have affected all with-profits funds and which she would have suffered if she had invested with an another firm. Compensation therefore was to be assessed by comparing the return Ms E received on the money she put into a with-profits pension with Equitable Life and the average return achieved by comparable with-profits funds. In addition, Mrs E’s loss should include the reduction her funds suffered when she transferred them from Equitable and an allowance for the costs she paid to set up a new policy with another firm because she would not have suffered the reduction or paid those costs if she had not invested with Equitable Life ". The FOS seems to have had wide discretion in devising the method for calculation of compensation, since, as it stated in one of its adjudications " the law relating to