26 May 2000 PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENT of Parliament’s Rules of Procedure pursuant to Rule 181 by Mr Herbert Bösch concerning Rule 9a of the Rules of Procedure RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT New Rule 9a of the Rules of Procedure (replaces previous text and annex) 9a. Internal investigations by the European Anti-fraud Office 1. Members shall cooperate fully with the European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF) in so far as they do not consider that their independence in the exercise of their mandate is jeopardised by cooperation. 2. Any Member who becomes aware of evidence which gives rise to a presumption of the existence of possible cases of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity detrimental to the interests of the Communities, or of serious situations relating to the discharge of professional duties which may constitute a failure to comply with obligations liable to result in disciplinary or, in appropriate cases, criminal proceedings, shall inform the President or, if he considers it useful, the Office direct. He shall not supply such information if to do so would impair his independence in the exercise of his mandate and in particular the entitlement to refuse to give evidence. This shall be without prejudice to the provisions concerning confidentiality contained in legislation and the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. 3. Where the possible personal implication of a Member emerges, the interested party shall be informed rapidly. The President shall immediately inform the persons concerned of impending measures by the Office against them. 4. The Office’s employees shall have access to Members’ offices only with the latter’s consent. 5. Under no circumstances may conclusions relating to a named Member be drawn at the end of an investigation without his having had the opportunity to state his position with regard to the facts concerning him. If at the end of an investigation no case can be made out against the Member against whom allegations have been made, the internal investigation concerning him shall be closed by decision of the Director of the Office, who shall inform him of this in writing. 6. The Office shall be informed of any request for the immunity of a Member to be waived. The proposed amendment takes account of the decision of the President of the Court of First Instance of 2 May 2000 laying down by way of interim protective measures certain conditions for the investigations of the European Anti-fraud Office (OLAF). Justification: The text I propose follows the original recommendation of the Committee on Budgetary Control that the provisions relating to Members should be separated from those relating to officials. It adheres strictly to the Interinstitutional Agreement with the Commission and Council. The aim of my proposal is to eliminate the existing uncertainties with regard to OLAF and create the same conditions for all Members.