elements of this Directive by supplementing it, shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 22 (3). Article 18 Trial areas The Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, may designate border regions as trial areas in which innovative cross-border healthcare initiatives can be tested, analysed and evaluated. Article 19 E-health The Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22 (2), adopt specific measures necessary for achieving the interoperability of information and communication technology systems in the healthcare field, applicable whenever Member States decide to introduce them. Those measures shall conform to the applicable data protection laws in each Member State and shall also reflect developments in health technologies and medical science, including telemedicine and telepsychiatry, and respect the fundamental right to the protection of personal data ▌.They shall specify in particular the necessary standards and terminologies for inter-operability of relevant information and communication technology systems to ensure safe, high-quality and efficient provision of cross-border health services. The Member States shall ensure that the use of e-Health and other telemedicine services: (a) adhere to the same professional medical quality and safety standards as those in use for non-electronic healthcare provision; (b) offer adequate protection to patients, notably through the introduction of appropriate regulatory requirements for practitioners similar to those in use for non-electronic healthcare provision . Article 20 Cooperation on management of ▌health technologies 1. The Commission shall, in consultation with the European Parliament, facilitate the establishment of a network connecting the national authorities or bodies responsible for health technology assessment. That network shall be based on the principles of good governance including transparency, objectiveness, fairness of procedures, and broad and full stakeholder participation of all relevant groups, including - but not limited to - health professionals, patients" representatives, social partners, scientists and industry, whilst respecting Member States' competence in the area of health technology assessment. 2. The objective of the health technology assessment network shall be: (a) to support cooperation between national authorities or bodies; (b) to find sustainable ways to balance the objectives of access to medicines, reward for innovation and management of healthcare budgets; ( c ) to support provision of objective, reliable, timely, transparent and transferable information on the short- and long-term effectiveness of health technologies and enable an effective exchange of this information between national authorities or bodies ; (d) to analyse the nature and type of information that can be exchanged. 3. Member States shall designate the authorities or bodies participating in the network as referred to in paragraph 1 and communicate to the Commission the names and contact details of those authorities or bodies. 4. The Commission shall, in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 22(2) , adopt the necessary measures for the establishment , the management and the transparent functioning of this network ▌. 5. The Commission shall only allow such authorities to join the network which fulfil the principles of good governance as defined in paragraph 1. Article 21 Data collection for statistical and monitoring purposes 1. Member States