list of corrections to votes will be finalised so that it can be translated and published in the Official Journal. (The sitting was suspended at 13.20 and resumed at 15.00.) IN THE CHAIR: Josep BORRELL FONTELLES President 7 Approval of Minutes of previous sitting Martine Roure had informed the Presidency that she had been present but that her name was not on the attendance register. The Minutes of the previous sitting were approved. 8 The period of reflection: structure, subjects and context for an assessment of the debate on the EU (debate) Report on the period of reflection: the structure, subjects and context for an assessment of the debate on the European Union [ 2005/2146(INI) ] - Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Co-rapporteurs: Johannes Voggenhuber and Andrew Duff ( A6-0414/2005 ) Andrew Duff and Johannes Voggenhuber (co-rapporteurs) introduced the report. The following spoke: Hans Winkler (President-in-Office of the Council) and Margot Wallström (Vice-President of the Commission) . The following spoke: Elmar Brok (draftsman of the opinion of the AFET Committee), Hannes Swoboda (draftsman of the opinion of the ITRE Committee), Paolo Costa (draftsman of the opinion of the TRAN Committee), Vladimír Železný (draftsman of the opinion of the REGI Committee), Willem Schuth (draftsman of the opinion of the AGRI Committee), Maria Berger (draftsman of the opinion of the JURI Committee), Jean-Marie Cavada (draftsman of the opinion of the LIBE Committee), Edit Bauer (draftsman of the opinion of the FEMM Committee), Alexander Stubb , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Richard Corbett , on behalf of the PSE Group, Bronisław Geremek , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Monica Frassoni , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Francis Wurtz , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, and Jens-Peter Bonde , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group . IN THE CHAIR: Manuel António dos SANTOS Vice-President The following spoke: Brian Crowley , on behalf of the UEN Group, James Hugh Allister , Non-attached Member, Jean-Luc Dehaene , Carlos Carnero González , Ignasi Guardans Cambó , Bernat Joan i Marí (who spoke Catalan. The President pointed out to him that as Catalan was not yet an official language, no interpretation was provided in the Chamber and his speech would not be transcribed in the Verbatim Report of Proceedings), Sylvia-Yvonne Kaufmann , Bastiaan Belder , Irena Belohorská , Íñigo Méndez de Vigo , Jo Leinen , Jules Maaten , Roger Knapman , Jan Tadeusz Masiel , József Szájer , Pierre Moscovici , Nils Lundgren , Daniel Hannan , Genowefa Grabowska , Maria da Assunção Esteves , Pasqualina Napoletano , Panayiotis Demetriou , Stavros Lambrinidis , Reinhard Rack , Hans Winkler and Margot Wallström . The debate closed. Vote: Minutes of 19.01.2006, Item 8.9 . 9 Welcome On behalf of Parliament, the President welcomed Mr Paavo Lipponen, Speaker of the Finnish Parliament, to the distinguished visitors' gallery. 10 Chechnya after the elections and civil society in Russia (debate) Council and Commission statements: Chechnya after the elections and civil society in Russia Hans Winkler (President-in-Office of the Council) and Benita Ferrero-Waldner (Member of the Commission) made the statements. The