On a related point, the Commission insisted that it could not express an opinion or investigate infringements that have been remedied by the Member State concerned. This was due to the nature of infringement proceedings, whose objective was merely to ensure compliance with EU law. Victims of past infringements could still test the compatibility of the Member State's conduct through national courts. Members expressed astonishment that there is no way to reopen infringement cases or investigate past infringements, especially when the detrimental effect of those infringements is only revealed at a later stage. Finally, Alan BEVERLY from the Commission, in H7, defends his institution's actions, reiterating Mr TERTAK's views, by saying that the "the role of the Commission is not to be a supervisor of the supervisors. It is not our mandate and we cannot possibly do that. We have said to you before that, having checked that implementation has been carried out in Member States, we are then virtually dependent on complaints or letters from citizens to have an idea of whether something is going wrong. Again, as we have informed you, we were not informed of any problems before the earliest letters we received, which were sent in 2001, after the closure to new business [...] Why did we not hear anything before 2001? It was probably because in the 1990s people leaving Equitable Life left with generous payments and had no reason whatsoever to complain". 5. Implementation reports done by UK firm At the request of committee members, the Commission provided the so-called implementation reports of the 3LD. The report was produced by a UK private law firm called Wilde Sapte. The report includes an overall summary as well as nine individual country correlation reports. The Commission states that the Directive was implemented too late in two countries to be caught by the report. Mr. VAN HULLE from the Commission, explained that the usual public tender was followed in order to select the firm, and that it was selected to do a study on the whole of the EU, which also includes the UK; it is unfortunate that there was such a linkage, but at the time that the study was carried out the ELAS affair had not arisen. The Commission " tries to select usually a firm which has contacts in all the Members States " (H1), a difficult endeavour. Commissioner MCCREEVY (H8) also explained how " how we checked the implementation of the third generation of insurance directives back in 1994-95 using in part a study commissioned from a well-known law firm. We have made available to you the study reports and our own internal papers which show clearly the problems encountered. Those papers also show the considerable efforts of Commission officials to achieve value for money and obtain the best possible result." 6. Transposition: Commission can only view a 'snapshot' Mr. TERTAK, under questioning, admitted that when analysing the transposition of a directive " you can just get a snapshot of any given time which not automatically covers what will happen afterwards (…). We should not