the Budget 2004 should be the basis to evaluate further needs during the period. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 AMENDMENT TO THE LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION [The European Parliament] Considers that the financial statement of the Commission proposal [as amended] is compatible with the ceiling of heading 5 of the financial perspectives 2000-2006. Justification According to the common declaration of 20 July 2000, the budgetary authority is entitled to evaluate the compatibility of new proposals in relation with the expenditure foreseen to maintain existing policies. If, in the course of the adoption of the decision, other amounts were to be proposed by the legislative authority, the budgetary authority would need to be consulted again. In this case, the Committee on Budgets would re-examine the impact on the ceiling under the current financial perspective according to Rule 63a of the Rules of Procedure. Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 2 Recital 9a (new) The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission undertook, at the time of the adoption of the Financial Regulation, to achieve the objective of ensuring that this basic act enters into force as from the financial year 2004 . Justification In the negotiations of the new Financial Regulation, a common agreement was reached to preserve the EP's rights to identify beneficiaries of grants through earmarking in the budget. This right has been formalised in the statement to Article 108 of the Financial Regulation. Amendment 3 Article 4, paragraph 1 An operating grant shall be awarded directly to the European Women's Lobby in so far as it complies with the general criteria laid down in point 2.1 of the Annex Group 1: An operating grant shall be awarded directly to the beneficiaries referred to under point 2.1 of the Annex Justification The legal act should identify with more transparency the different awarding criteria in respect of the provisions of the Financial Regulation. Amendment 4 Article 4, paragraph 2 The award of an operating grant on the basis of an ongoing programme of work or of a grant for a specific action to an organisation which is pursuing an objective of general European interest or an objective which is part of the European Union's policy of promoting equality between men and women must meet the general criteria laid down in points 2.2. and 2.3. of the Annex. Organisations entitled to receive grants shall be selected following a call for proposals. Group 2: The award of an operating grant on the basis of an ongoing programme of work or of a grant for a specific action to an organisation which is pursuing an objective of general European interest or an objective which is part of the European Union's policy of promoting equality between men and women must meet the general criteria laid down in points 2.2. and 2.3. of the Annex. Organisations entitled to receive grants shall be selected following a call for proposals. Justification The legal act