Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (18 January 2010) At European Union level, protection against any potential risks to the safety and health of workers at work, including risks which might be caused by vaccinations administered to members of certain professions, is covered by Directive 89/391/EEC Council Directive 89/391/EEC of 12 June 1989 on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work, OJ L 183, 29. 6. 1989 . . Risks of a biological nature to workers at work are also covered by Directive 2000/54/EC Directive 2000/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 2000 on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to biological agents at work (seventh individual directive within the meaning of Article 16(1) of Directive 89/391/EEC), OJ L 262, 17.10.2000 . . Article 3(2) of this directive states that, in the case of any activity likely to involve a risk of exposure to biological agents, the nature, degree and duration of workers' exposure must be determined in order to make it possible to assess any risk to the workers' health or safety and to lay down the measures to be taken. Annex VII to the directive also contains a ‘Recommended code of practice on vaccination’. The Commission reiterates the fact that it is the task of the Member States to transpose Community directives into their national legal order and to enforce the national legislation transposing Community directives. At this stage, the Commission does not intend to propose specific measures in the area referred to by the Honourable Member. As regards the issue of monitoring the adverse effects from vaccines, the European Union has in place a comprehensive and effective safety monitoring system for the reporting and assessment of the safety and efficacy of a medicinal product after it has been authorised. If, after assessment of new data, the view is taken that the risk-benefit balance of the vaccine is not positive under normal conditions of use, competent authorities are expected to suspend, revoke, withdraw or vary a marketing authorisation or prohibit the supply. In general, the supervision and monitoring of adverse reactions to authorised medicines are carried out through the EU’s pharmacovigilance system. This system ensures that any product which presents an unacceptable level of risk can be rapidly withdrawn from the market. Thus pharmacovigilance comprises collecting and managing data on the safety of medicines, evaluating such data and deciding to act to protect public health. In addition, the European Medicines Agency, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the Heads of Medicines Agencies have adopted a specific strategy to further strengthen the coordination of benefit-risk monitoring for influenza A/H1N1 vaccines http://www.ema.europa.eu/pdfs/human/pandemicinfluenza/european_strategy.pdf . A number of specific activities to be performed by vaccine manufacturers, in addition to their routine regulatory obligations, when the pandemic vaccines are used have been defined by the Committee on Human Medicinal Products (CHMP). These activities include conducting a prospective safety cohort study for each vaccine, surveillance of adverse events of special interest (AESI),