best practices to facilitate the implementation of this Directive; d) the creation of an Internet portal in line with Article 4(6). Article 22 Transposition 1. Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than ... * Two years after the entry into force of this Directive . They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those measures and a correlation table between those measures and this Directive. When Member States adopt those measures , they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made. 2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. Article 23 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 24 This Directive is addressed to the Member States. Done at ║, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX I Training and further training programmes Training and further training programmes shall be designed so as to ensure that sufficient knowledge on the following subjects is acquired: 1. all relevant legislation regarding pesticides and their use , pesticide labels and labelling systems, pesticide terminology, pesticide safety, toxicity and eco-toxicity; 2. the hazards and risks associated with pesticides, and how to identify and control them, in particular: a) risks to humans (operators, residents, bystanders, people entering treated areas and those handling or eating treated items) and all potential acute and chronic long-term adverse health effects of exposure and how these are exacerbated by factors such as smoking , eating or not wearing the appropriate protective equipment, b) symptoms of pesticide poisoning and first aid measures and symptoms of chronic health effects, c) risks to non target plants, beneficial insects, wildlife, biodiversity and the environment in general , with special attention to the adverse effects of pesticide use in agriculture, for instance the loss of natural enemies and the decrease of pollination by insects; 3. notions on integrated pest management strategies and techniques, integrated crop management strategies and techniques, ▐organic farming principles and non-chemical crop protection, in particular preventive methods and biological control methods ; information on general and crop-specific standards and practices of non-chemical methods of plant protection and pest and crop management; 4. initiation to comparative assessment at user level to help professional users make the most appropriate choices among all authorised products for a given pest problem, in a given situation , choosing the least dangerous product for human health and the environment; 5. measures to minimise the risks to humans, non-target species and the environment: safe working practices for storing, handling and mixing pesticides, and disposing of empty packaging, other contaminated materials and surplus pesticides (including tank mixes), whether in concentrate or dilute form; recommended way to control operator exposure