and issuers or offerors referred to in Article 2 may only use for regulatory purposes credit ratings which are issued or endorsed by credit rating agencies established in the Community and registered in accordance with this Regulation. Amendment 4 5 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Investment firms and credit institutions referred to in Art. 1 of Directive 2004/39/EC should not execute orders on behalf of their clients with respect to financial instruments which have been rated, unless the credit rating has been issued by a credit rating agency registered in accordance with this Regulation. 2. The rating of entities or products that are located in a third country and that are prepared or issued by a credit rating agency that is established and authorised or registered in a third country, may be used within the Community where : (a) t hose ratings are endorsed by a credit rating agency that is established in the Community and registered in accordance with this Regulation ; and (b) t he third-country credit rating activities resulting in the issuance of the credit rating to be endorsed are subject to a legal and supervisory framework deemed to be equivalent to th e measures provided for in th is Regulation. The Commission shall establish and publish a list of third-country legislation deemed to be equivalent to this Regulation. Th at list shall be updated on an ongoing basis. 3. A credit rating endorsed in accordance with paragraph 2 shall be deemed to be equivalent to a credit rating issued by a credit rating agency established in the Community and registered in accordance with this Regulation. A credit rating agency registered in the Community shall include a statement to th at effect in its rating announcement. 4. A credit rating agency established in the Community and registered in accordance with this Regulation shall not use th at endorsement for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of this Regulation. A credit rating agency that has endorsed a credit rating prepared or issued by a third-country credit rating agency shall remain fully responsible for that credit rating and for the fulfilment of the conditions of that endorsement. 5 . Once an international regulatory and supervisory framework for credit rating agencies and their activities is established, the European Parliament and the Council shall review this Regulation. 6 . The Commission, assisted by the CESR, shall establish transitional measures for existing third-country credit ratings already used within the Community. Those measures, design to amend non-essential elements of this Regulation by supplementing it, shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 33(2). 7. Without prejudice to the competition rules, Member States shall ensure that issuers use credit rating agencies that have their head office in the Community for a proportion of their ratings . Amendment 46 Proposal for a regulation Article 5 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. A credit rating agency shall ensure that the issuance of a credit rating is not