6, within five years of the issue of that CPC; b) the drivers referred to in Article 4, within five years of the respective dates referred to in Article 14(2), in accordance with a timetable decided on by the Member States. Member States may reduce or extend the periods of time referred to in (a) and (b), inter alia so that they coincide with the date of expiry of the driving licence or so as to ensure the gradual introduction of periodic training. The period may not, however, be shorter than three years or longer than seven years. 3. A driver who has completed a first course of periodic training as referred to in paragraph 2 shall undergo periodic training every five years, before the end of the period of validity of the CPC certifying periodic training. 4. Holders of the CPC as referred to in Article 6 or the CPC as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the drivers referred to in Article 4 who have ceased pursuit of the occupation and do not meet the requirements of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article , shall undergo a course of periodic training before resuming pursuit of the occupation. 5. Drivers undertaking the carriage of goods or passengers by road who have completed courses of periodic training for one of the licence categories provided for in Article 5(2) and (3) shall be exempt from the obligation to undergo further periodic training for another of the categories provided for in those paragraphs. Article 9 Place of training Drivers referred to in Article 1(a) shall obtain the initial qualification referred to in Article 5 in the Member State in which they have their normal residence, as defined in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 3821/85 Council Regulation (EEC) No 3821/85 of 20 December 1985 on recording equipment in road transport (OJ L 370, 3.12.1985, p. 8). Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1360/2002 (OJ L 207, 5.8.2002, p. 1). . Drivers referred to in Article 1(b) shall obtain that qualification in the Member State in which the undertaking is established or in the Member State which issued a work permit to them. Drivers referred to in Article 1(a) and 1(b) shall undergo the periodic training referred to in Article 7 in the Member State in which they have their normal residence or the Member State in which they work. Article 10 Community code 1. On the basis of the CPC referred to in Article 6 and the CPC referred to in Article 8(1), Member States' competent authorities shall mark, taking into account the provisions of Article 5(2) and (3) and Article 8, the Community code provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article alongside the corresponding categories of licence: – either on the driving licence – or on the driver qualification card drawn up in accordance with the model shown in Annex II. The driver qualification card issued by Member States shall be mutually recognised. When the card is issued, the competent authorities shall check the