States refused". The resolution was passed with 507 votes in favour, 25 against and 109 abstentions. Next steps The new regulation must be formally approved by the Council in the coming weeks, and will enter into force in November 2012. Parliament gives green light to future economic governance plans 28-09-2011 . Eurozone members will no longer be able simply to ignore Commission warnings to correct their budgetary policies. The economic governance legislation voted in plenary on Wednesday should also help ensure that countries tackle unsound economic policies more promptly, considerably increases transparency and accountability and will improve the compilation of statistics to make them more reliable and accurate. As expected, the plenary vote was tight with left-of-centre groups abstaining and voting against some parts of the deal for fear that the package is overly focused on budgetary correction, to the detriment of growth and employment. On the part of the package dealing with macroeconomic imbalances, a large majority was obtained because centre-left groups felt that an adequate balance had been struck between social and financial imperatives. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet had congratulated EP negotiators a week earlier for resisting attempts to water down the package: "If I compare the deal to the initial proposals, there is substantial improvement. I have to pay homage to the Parliament for this." More details on the deal are available in an FAQ published separately. Less horse trading, more responsibility The vote came two weeks after certain Member States, led by France, climbed down from their insistence that a warning to a country would require approval by the Council. MEPs feared that this would lead to back-room deals in which countries needing to reform their budgetary policies would be let off the hook. Instead, the agreement will force Eurozone governments to muster a majority to block a warning being issued. Neither can the governments opt to do nothing, since such a warning will in any event be issued if the vote is not taken within 10 days of it being proposed by the Commission. And if governments do vote to reject a warning, they will need to explain themselves to the European Parliament in public. Public hearings and macroeconomic surveillance Parliament also won the right to invite finance ministers from countries that have received a warning to hearings. Member States long insisted that this should not be the case. MEPs also negotiated that the Commission would look not only at countries with a trade deficit, but also at those running current account surpluses, when investigating the sources of macroeconomic instability. Member States had initially insisted that only current account deficit countries would be investigated. The agreed rules will therefore require the Commission to consider the possibility that countries like Germany or the Netherlands are a cause of instability and reforms could be asked of them too. Other improvements by Parliament Apart from the issues settled, many other improvements were brought about by pressure from MEPs. Some of the most important improvements are: putting into law the European semester (annual assessment of national budgets for economic policy coordination),