geographical distribution or the activities actually carried out indicate clearly that an investment firm has opted for the legal system of one Member State for the purpose of evading the stricter standards in force in another Member State within the territory of which it intends to carry out or does carry out the greater part of its activities. An investment firm which is a legal person should be authorised in the Member State in which it has its registered office. An investment firm which is not a legal person should be authorised in the Member State in which it has its head office. In addition, Member States should require that an investment firm's head office must always be situated in its home Member State and that it actually operates there. (17) An investment firm authorised in its home Member State should be able to carry out business throughout the Community by whatever means it deems appropriate. (18) In the interest of the sound and prudent management of the investment firm, special obligations should be imposed on persons who effectively direct the business and persons exercising effective control. Since certain investment firms are exempted from the obligation imposed by Council Directive 93/6/EEC of 15 March 1993 on the capital adequacy of investment firms and credit institutions OJ L 141, 11.6.1993, P. 1. Directive as last amended by Directive 2002/87/EC . , they should be obliged to hold professional indemnity insurance. The adjustments of the amounts of that insurance should take account adjustments made in the framework of European Parliament and Council Directive 2002/92/EC of 9 December 2002 on insurance mediation OJ L 9, 15.1.2003, p. 3. . This particular treatment for the purposes of capital adequacy should be without prejudice to any decisions regarding the appropriate treatment of these firms under future changes to Community legislation on capital adequacy. No later than the 31 December 2006, the Commission should present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of these provisions accompanied where appropriate by proposals for their revision. These proposals should take account of developments within the Community and other international fora, particularly those pertaining to capital charges on operational risk. (19) Since the scope of prudential regulation should be limited to those entities which, by virtue of running a trading book on a professional basis, represent a source of counterparty risk to other market participants, entities which deal for their own account in financial instruments, including those commodity derivatives covered by this Directive, on an ancillary basis to their main business, should be excluded from the scope of this Directive. (20) Since the prudential framework established by Community law is not currently adapted to the specific situation of persons or undertakings whose main business consists in dealing on own account in commodity derivatives it is appropriate to exclude them from the scope of this Directive. (21) In order to protect an investor's ownership and other similar rights in respect of securities and his rights in respect of funds entrusted to a firm those rights should in particular