WRITTEN QUESTION E-2658/07 by Stavros Arnaoutakis (PSE) to the Commission (24 May 2007) Subject: EU technical assistance to third countries in the fisheries sector The EU finances the programme ‘Strengthening Fishery Products' Health Conditions in African, Caribbean and Pacific Countries (ACP/OCT) ’. The duration of this programme is five years (2002‑07). One of the reasons why this programme was devised is the almost doubling in demand for fisheries products on the EU internal market, which necessitates imports of fisheries products from third countries, such as African, Pacific and Caribbean countries. In most of these countries, there is no legal or organisational framework to ensure compliance with health conditions, essential procedures for quality control of production, testing laboratories, trained personnel and certification of procedures and products. The EU developed this specific programme for these reasons with the focus on four basic objectives: (a) improving national health conditions and control of fishery products; (b) providing technical assistance to the fisheries industry (fishing vessels and processing units) to ensure compliance with health conditions for export; (c) provides technical assistance and training for laboratories carrying out microbiological and other quality and health controls to testing laboratories and technical support institutions so that they operate autonomously, and (d) providing training and improvement of practices and infrastructures for small-scale coastal fishing. After almost four and a half years of the programme, legal commitments have been undertaken for 12 regional, 19 local and 2 general sub-programmes, amounting in total to only 22 % of the overall available budget, while there are a large number of applications for technical assistance which appear unlikely to be processed before the expiry of the programme. 1. What are the reasons which have resulted in such a low take-up rate and how does the Commission intend to utilise the sums not made available? 2. Does the Commission intend to finish processing countries' applications for technical assistance which cannot reasonably be expected to be completed before the expiry of the programme? 3. Does the Commission intend to extend the validity of the programme?