European State to become a member of the European Union shall be referred to the committee responsible for consideration. 2. Parliament may decide, on a proposal from the committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members, to request the Commission and the Council to take part in a debate before negotiations with the applicant State commence. 3. Throughout the negotiations the Commission and the Council shall inform the committee responsible regularly and thoroughly of the progress in the negotiations, if necessary on a confidential basis. 4. At any stage of the negotiations Parliament may, on the basis of a report from the committee responsible, adopt recommendations and require these to be taken into account before the conclusion of a Treaty for the accession of an applicant State to the European Union. Such recommendations shall require the same majority as the final assent. 5. When the negotiations are completed, but before any agreement is signed, the draft agreement shall be submitted to Parliament for assent. 6. Parliament shall give its assent to an application by a European State to become a member of the European Union by a majority of its component Members on the basis of a report by the committee responsible. Rule 83 International agreements 1. When it is intended to open negotiations on the conclusion, renewal or amendment of an international agreement, including agreements in specific areas such as monetary affairs or trade, the committee responsible shall ensure that Parliament is fully informed by the Commission about its recommendations for a negotiating mandate, if necessary on a confidential basis. 2. Parliament may, on a proposal from the committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members, request the Council not to authorise the opening of negotiations until Parliament has stated its position on the proposed negotiating mandate on the basis of a report from the committee responsible. 3. The committee responsible shall ascertain from the Commission, at the time it is intended to open negotiations, the chosen legal basis for concluding the international agreements referred to in paragraph 1. The committee responsible shall verify the chosen legal basis pursuant to Rule 35. Where the Commission fails to designate a legal basis, or where there is doubt about its appropriateness, Rule 35 shall apply. 4. Throughout the negotiations the Commission and the Council shall inform the committee responsible regularly and thoroughly of the progress in the negotiations, if necessary on a confidential basis. 5. At any stage of the negotiations Parliament may, on the basis of a report from the committee responsible, and after considering any relevant proposal tabled pursuant to Rule 114, adopt recommendations and require that these be taken into account before the conclusion of the international agreement under consideration. 6. When the negotiations are completed, but before any agreement is signed, the draft agreement shall be submitted to Parliament for opinion or for assent. For the assent procedure Rule 75 shall apply. 7. Parliament shall give its opinion on, or its assent to, the conclusion, renewal or amendment of an international agreement or a financial