favour of the complainants, it was likely that its decision would result in a stalemate. This is because, if it found in favour of the complainants and awarded them compensation, the necessary funds would have to be drawn from the with-profits fund. A major scheme of rearrangement of fund values would be necessary. The implementation of such a scheme would have to be the subject of supervision by the FSA who would have responsibility to oversee the continuing solvency of the Society and ensure fair treatment of all affected members. Thus, FOS’s decision would give rise to a regulatory issue which would need to be referred to the FSA. The FSA, however, had already reached the conclusion that no loss suffered by investors could be attributed to the regulatory system. Finally, in deciding not to investigate the complaints, FOS took account of the wide implications of any investigation that potentially might affect up to a million people contrasted with the relatively small number of those who complained ." In WE 56, Mr MERRICKS makes the following general statement with regard to his treatment of complaints concerning Equitable Life: " I should emphasise that our role in relation to Equitable is limited to dealing with complaints about Equitable Life itself, and the awards that we make when complaints are upheld are met from the Equitable Life with-profits fund – that is to say they reduce the fund that belongs to other Equitable policyholders. As I indicated in making an earlier decision, nearly everyone affected by the crisis involving the Society has a grievance. All have suffered losses - judged at least against their expectations. It would be impossible to say which group could be regarded as the more deserving of sympathy, and thank goodness that is not what I had to do ." The FOS's stance is echoed in ES 3 Page 51. : " It appears that FOS took into account, among others, two considerations: first, that investor protection should be balanced with other interests; and secondly, that any compensation to complainants will come from the with-profits fund and would therefore be to the detriment of continuing policyholders. Thus, compensation claims were not a juxtaposition of the interests of investors vis-à-vis the interests or funds of corporate managers but a balancing exercise between the interests of two competing investor groups. " c.) Policyholders' criticism of the FOS's handling of complaints A number of policyholders heard by the committee, such as Mr LAKE (H1), Mr BRAITHWAITE (H1), Mr BELLORD (H2), Mr WEIR (H2) and Mr SCAWEN (H3) heavily criticised the FOS's handling of Equitable Life - related complaints. " The FOS's treatment of individual cases has been unfair, bizarre, partial to the Equitable and lacking natural justice and accountability ", said Mr LAKE (H1). Others referred to " obfuscations and general obstructiveness " (Mr BELLORD, H2) and " a pattern of deliberate delay " (Mr WEIR, H2). Mr SCAWEN (H3) said that " the Financial Ombudsman Service is ... part of the problem and not part of the solution ". The more specific