Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development ( A5‑0442/2001 ) 1. Approves the Commission proposal as amended; 2. Calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly, pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty; 3. Calls on the Council to notify Parliament should it intend to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 4 Asks to be consulted again if the Council intends to amend the Commission proposal substantially; 5 Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Since 1994, the area sown to seeds in the European Union has increased substantially, as have the quantities produced, particularly for certain species. Over that period, the market prices received by producers have fluctuated, sometimes considerably. At the same time, there has been an increase in the quantities exported and in the stocks held by the Community, demonstrating that more seeds are being produced than can be actually disposed of on the Community market. EAGGF Guarantee Section spending on the seed sector has been increasing constantly since 1994. This trend accelerated in 1999 and 2000, reaching EUR 109.5 million in 2000. The only budgetary stabilising mechanism that currently exists in this sector concerns rice seed, for which the Council introduced a maximum guaranteed quantity apportioned among the Member States from the 1999 marketing year. The Commission is responsible for determining and applying this mechanism. The Commission proposal: The Commission proposes, as provided under the common organisation of the market in seeds established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2358/71, to fix the amount of aid to be paid for the 2002/03 and 2003/04 marketing years. The amount of aid is to be kept at the current level. In addition to that obligation, the Commission considers there is a need to introduce a stabiliser mechanism similar to the existing one for rice seed in order to curb the constant increase in expenditure under this common organisation of the market. In the Commission's view, these two matters (fixing the aid and introducing a stabiliser) are closely linked. Spending on the market organisation depends on the unit rate for aid applied to the quantity produced and eligible for Community aid. Keeping the aid at the current level is acceptable only if a stabiliser mechanism is introduced to keep spending within reasonable limits. The alternative of reducing the unit rate of aid would not be as effective and would not place responsibility on the Member States where the increased production has been recorded. Finally, the Commission proposes to scrap the current differentiation between three varieties of Lolium perenne L which currently receive aid. The last time the aid was fixed, it was noted that this differentiation was no longer justified. Conclusion: The maintenance of aid for seed at the current level is to be welcomed as it is required to ensure a market balance between production and outlets. There are no objections either to scrapping the differentiation between three varieties of Lolium perenne L seed which currently receive aid. However, the introduction