financial operations are involved. The committee believes that this should be encompassed by the Commission's proposal on Solvency II. 3. The committee welcomes current discussions surrounding Solvency II and the use of a principles and risk-based approach in calculating prudential requirements which will require companies to hold capital in line with their particular profile rather than meeting a one size fits all requirement. 4. The committee strongly recommends the further implementation of more sophisticated mechanisms which are able to guarantee exemplary co-operation between national regulatory authorities, in particular within the framework of the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors (CEIOPS) network, in order to create a truly efficient intervention system able to successfully react to anomalies or disruptions within the internal market. 5. The committee welcomes CEIOPS’s inclusion in its 2007 Work Programme of a review of rules of procedures to be followed by supervisors in cross-border activities, as set out in the Siena Protocol Siena Protocol relating to the collaboration of the supervisory authorities of the Member States of the EC in particular in the application of the Directives on life assurance and non-life insurance (1997). . The committee calls for a thorough review of this protocol, focused on policyholder protection and the treatment of cross-border complaints. 6. The committee considers unacceptable any attempt to interpret or to justify a passive role of national financial regulators limited only to their national jurisdiction and calls for EC legislation to highlight the collegial responsibility of national regulators in assuring the highest standards of consumer protection and safeguarding the optimal working of the internal market in financial services on an EU-wide basis. In particular, the committee considers that host State regulators should actively assist complainants, help them to direct their complaints to the appropriate destination, and support them as necessary throughout the resulting process. 7. The committee acknowledges that the Commission cannot assume the role of a regulator of regulators . However, in order to assure the correct application of EC legislation throughout the internal market, it strongly recommends that the Commission look regularly and closely at whether all Member States have equipped their national regulators with sufficient and equivalent powers, as well as continuing means and resources to be in a position to apply fully and consistently EC legislation in financial supervision. It further invites the Commission to inform the appropriate committees of the European Parliament of its assessments. 8. The committee strongly requests that any financial services legislation duly recognises the priority of consumer and investor protection issues, while at the same time ensuring a dynamic and competitive environment for financial services providers that minimises red tape and does not stifle commercial flexibility and innovation. In this regard, the committee supports the emphasis on risk and principles-based regulation in financial services legislation. Furthermore, as investments in pension products are to play an increasingly important role in the European economy in view of demographic imbalance and ageing populations, the committee emphasises the need to foster consumer confidence in pension products by ensuring for them the highest standards of information, security and