sea Dirk STERCKX (ELDR, B) Report on improving safety at sea (2003/2235(INI)) Doc.: A5-0257/2004 Procedure : Own-initiative Debate : 20.04.2004 Vote: 21.04.2004 Vote The European Parliament made a contribution to improving safety at sea by adopting a range of recommendations tabled by its Temporary Committee on Improving Safety at Sea with 396 votes in favour, 24 against and with 13 abstentions. Following the Prestige disaster, Parliament decided to set up a temporary committee to investigate this incident and other disasters at sea, including the wreck of the Erika off the coast of Brittany on 12 December 1999. The committee had held three public hearings with maritime experts as well as talks with the European Commission, the Irish Presidency, Spanish government representatives and the Spanish government commissioner responsible for the Prestige case. MEPs also conducted an interview with Prestige captain Apostoulos Mangouras. In the vote, Parliament adopted several key amendments to beef up the report by Dirk STERCKX (ELDR, B). MEPs call for a comprehensive and cohesive maritime policy, which should have as its objective the creation of a European maritime safety area. This policy should be based on the following measures: the banning of substandard vessels, the drawing up of joint protocols on prevention, action and reparation in the event of disasters, the introduction of a system of liability covering the entire maritime transport chain and the public authorities responsible for safety at sea, and the improvement of living and working conditions for seafarers. A majority of MEPs rejected the adoption of a European flag on Community vessels. The House also took the view that EU action, such as the banning of flags of convenience from European ports, may be necessary in the interests of safety. It also called for the establishment of a European coast guard equipped with the necessary equipment to ensure maritime safety, the protection of the marine environment, strict monitoring of adherence to certain shipping routes, prosecution for the illegal entry of vessels and the swiftest possible co-ordination of the necessary measures in the event of an accident at sea. Bearing in mind that up to 80% of accidents at sea are due to human error, Parliament stressed that in the interest of safety at sea, it was essential that seafarers should be qualified, enjoy decent working conditions, working hours and remuneration and that an end be put to overexploitation which exists on many ships. Members urged the introduction of compulsory refresher courses and courses on rescue operation for seafarers. MEPs stressed the need for radical changes at the level of structure and responsibilities to the complex nexus of businesses that contracts international maritime traffic. This nexus was an obstacle to the efficient inspection of vessels, the introduction of safety measures, professional training etc. The Commission was called on to make a full analysis of this problem and to submit a report to the EP and the Council; this report should in particular deal with the relations between EU businesses and flag-of-convenience states. Prestige disaster Parliament deplores the decision taken by the Spanish authorities to tow the Prestige