Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (15 September 2009) With integrated capital markets, there is a compelling need to have financial services regulation in place at EU level. An EU regulatory framework will improve financial stability, foster efficiency and guarantee consistency. As the current crisis has shown, there is a clear need to improve the existing EU supervisory arrangements which are mainly based on national supervisors. The Commission will shortly be following up on the De Larosière report with ambitious proposals to modernize the EU supervision system. European level regulation will promote both better competitiveness and stronger competition as the financial services industry is now increasingly concentrated. For example, 70 % of the EU banking assets are in the hands of 40 large cross border groups. EU regulation helps to achieve consistency in the internal market, thus avoiding regulatory arbitrage between different Member States which can be detrimental to financial stability across the EU as a whole. However, the need to regulate at EU level is challenged by increasingly global markets. To be properly equipped with a modern and internationally consistent framework, the EU needs to adequately coordinate its regulatory activities with other important players. The Commission has been very active on the international front. First, the Commission proposes to implement robust global standards such as Basel II for banking prudential requirements and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in the area of accounting. The Commission is also striving to achieve and promote other global standards concerning securities, insurance and auditing regulation. Secondly, the Commission has been very active in the G20 process, contributing to the success of the London Summit on 2 April 2009. This Summit resulted in a comprehensive platform for regulating financial services that will be implemented by all G20 members. The Commission will also actively participate in the newly created Financial Stability Board, which will play an important role in monitoring global regulatory convergence and financial stability.