and medical assistance to the infected children and the affected families, as well as support for the Libyan authorities to combat the AIDS disease; whereas EUR 2 million from the Community budget have been provided to fund the plan; whereas the implementation of this Action Plan is well under way, with support from the Commission and from EU Member States; whereas a large number of the infected children have received treatment in hospitals in Member States, F. whereas in January 2006 a Benghazi International Fund was established as a non-profit, non-governmental body created to help develop the local medical infrastructure in Benghazi, to improve the treatment of the patients and to provide assistance to the affected families, 1. Condemns the verdict of the Criminal Court in Libya on 19 December 2006, convicting, in a re-trial, and sentencing to death five Bulgarian nurses, Kristiana Vulcheva, Nasya Nenova, Valentina Siropulo, Valya Chervenyashka and Snezhana Dimitrova, and one Palestinian doctor, Ashraf al-Haiui, who have already spent eight years in prison in connection with the 1999 HIV/AIDS case at the Benghazi hospital; 2. Notes that the EU cannot accept this verdict and trusts that the matter will now be referred to a higher authority with a view to finding a just and fair solution in a timely manner; 3. Reiterates its serious concern with regard to the basis on which the accused persons were prosecuted, their treatment while in custody and the lengthy delays in the process; 4. Underlines that, as from January 2007, the Benghazi trial directly concerns five citizens of the European Union; 5. Invites the Libyan authorities concerned to take the necessary measures to review and annul the death sentence, and open the way to an early resolution of the case on a humanitarian basis, thus meeting the necessary prerequisites for the continuation of the common policy of engagement with Libya; 6. Underlines its resolve to follow closely this case and its intention to appoint a special rapporteur to that end; 7. Calls on the Commission, the Council and the Member States to continue to provide assistance for the implementation of the HIV Action Plan and to support the Benghazi International Fund, in order to alleviate the suffering of the infected children and their families and to help the Libyan authorities to prevent and fight the spread of the HIV infection in the country; 8. Calls on the Commission and the Council, in the event of further negative developments, to consider a revision of the common policy of engagement with Libya in all relevant fields, as the Union deems appropriate; 9. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments of the Member States, the Government of Libya, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Secretary-General of the United Nations.