compensation; however, at the same time they place their fish stocks under increasing pressure, sometimes to the detriment of local fishing communities. The issue of management of fish stocks must be approached with caution if the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the ACP countries and worldwide is to be achieved. The Committee on Development and Cooperation wishes to emphasise the need to ensure that fisheries agreements are of mutual benefit to the countries concerned and to the EU. Renewal of the Fisheries Protocol between the EU and Guinea-Bissau The European Commission and Guinea-Bissau have initialled a Protocol to the Fisheries Agreement for a period of five years beginning on 16 June 2001. Financial compensation will amount to €51 million. The Agreement with Guinea-Bissau is one of the oldest and most important for the EU. Vessels operating under this Agreement come from Spain, France, Italy and Portugal. Vessels from Greece are also likely to operate under the new Protocol. The implementation of the current Protocol was affected by a suspension of fishing activities between June 1998 and April 1999, owing to the outbreak of an armed conflict in Guinea-Bissau that did not allow for the safe pursuit of fishing activities by EU vessels. The EU withheld the financial compensation for that period, amounting to some €6.5 million. When peace returned the EU decided to allocate this amount to Guinea-Bissau for the restoration of facilities supporting the fishing sector in that country. Under the new Protocol the two parties have expressed their commitment to ensuring sustainable fisheries in the waters of Guinea-Bissau on a non-discriminatory basis for the various fleets involved. It has also been agreed to hold a joint annual scientific meeting to track the development of fishery resources in these waters. The two parties have agreed that, should it be felt necessary, and on the basis of the best available scientific advice, they will consult one another on measures to ensure sustainable management of fishery resources. Where these measures relate to a reduction in the fishing possibilities allocated to EU vessels under the Protocol, the amount of financial compensation will be reviewed accordingly. A provision regarding the maximum level of by-catches permitted for shrimp vessels has been introduced, limiting the level of cephalopods and fish allowed on board to 50% of the catches made by these vessels. Under the new Protocol the level of fishing possibilities for shrimp vessels remains the same, at 9 600 GRT (Gross Registered Tonnes) per year. There will be a small decrease of 200 GRT per year for vessels catching fish and cephalopods, from 3 000 to 2, 800 GRT. The number of tuna seiners will go up from 37 to 40, while that of pole-and-line tuna vessels and longliners will go down from 52 to 36. Financial compensation will amount to €51 million over 5 years. During the first three years the compensation paid to Guinea-Bissau will amount to some €10 million, with €1 million to be allocated to specific measures, including support for local small-scale fishing, scientific and technical programmes and training. For the