Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (23 April 2008) Work-related musculoskeletal disorders are one of the major safety and health problems facing the European Union today. They affect both women and men and all sectors of activity across the European Union and are a major financial cost to businesses and society at large. The Commission is aware of the high incidence of ergonomic problems, especially back disorders, among health service nursing staff. Framework Directive 89/391/CEE Council Directive 89/391/EEC of 12 June 1989 on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work (OJ L 183 of 29.6.1989). contains general principles concerning the prevention of occupational risks and establishes the obligation on employers to assess all risks to the health and safety of workers and to introduce suitable protective and preventive measures. In addition, Article 3 of Directive 90/269/CEE Council Directive 90/269/EEC of 29 May 1990 on the minimum health and safety requirements for the manual handling of loads where there is a risk particularly of back injury to workers (OJ L 156, 21.6.1990). states: ‘The employer shall take appropriate measures in order to avoid the need for the manual handling of loads by workers. Where the need for the manual handling of loads by workers cannot be avoided, the employer shall take the appropriate organisational measures, use the appropriate means or provide workers with such means in order to reduce the risk involved in the manual handling of such loads’. The suitable use of certain mechanical equipment such as hoists and electric beds for handling patients constitutes a measure which is likely to reduce significantly the ergonomic risks to which nursing staff are exposed. The Commission launched the consultation of European social partners under Article 138 of the EC Treaty in October 2004. Having carefully examined the replies to the first-stage consultation document, the Commission is considering proposing a new legislative initiative laying down minimum health and safety requirements for the protection of workers from exposure to risks that may result in musculoskeletal disorders in all workplaces. The envisaged initiative would be complemented by non-regulatory initiatives, such as the development of practical guidelines. The Commission is in the process of carrying out an impact assessment study to determine the best course of action.