Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (22 February 2011) This worrying case was brought to the Commission's attention in the beginning of December 2010 by civil society organisations. Since then, the Commission and the European External Action Service have been following the case closely. The EU Delegation in Cairo contacted local civil society organisations and liaised with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) Regional Representation in Cairo to establish the facts and assess the situation. In coordination with the EU Member States, the EU Delegation met with the Egyptian Ministry of Foreign Affairs to express the EU's concerns and urge appropriate follow-up. The issue was discussed again at the EU‑Egypt Association Committee held on 14 December 2010 in Cairo. The Commission will continue working along these lines. The lack of protection of migrants and refugees in Egypt is an issue of ongoing concern, particularly in the Sinai region. For this reason, it is repeatedly raised in the framework of the EU's regular political dialogue with Egyptian counterparts. The EU has invited Egypt to develop and improve the quality of the assistance and protection offered to asylum‑seekers and refugees residing or transiting on their territory. The EU has also invited the Egyptian authorities to ensure that the principle of non-refoulement is observed for all migrants in need of international protection while the UNHCR is given every possibility to implement its mandate on the entire territory of Egypt, including in the Sinai region. The Commission would like to point out some positive developments: In the spring of 2010 Egypt adopted an Anti-trafficking Law, which penalizes human trafficking and aims at protecting its victims. The EU has offered its support to the Egyptian authorities in ensuring efficient implementation of this legal framework. At the regional level, the Commission recognises the need for better protection of asylum‑seekers and refugees, and in 2009, proposed the creation of a Regional Protection Programme (RPP) in North-Eastern Africa, encompassing Egypt, Libya and Tunisia. This programme is currently being developed.