1597/10 of 28 April 2004 on outside activities and assignments establish clear and strict requirements for former officials exercising professional activities, including the obligation to sign a declaration acknowledging their continuing obligations to the Commission, in particular under Articles 16, 17 and 19 of the Staff Regulations. For a period of two years after leaving the Commission, a former official wishing to take up an assignment or outside activity must inform the appointing authority, providing detailed information on his activity during his last three years of active service at the Commission; the activity that he wishes to take up including information on the position he is to occupy and the expected duration of the activity; the name, address and telephone number of the potential employer; the employer’s fields of activity; and the links with his former functions in the Commission, if any. It should also be noted that former officials who held management posts in the Competition DG are further subject to a particular distance rule of one year, which is stricter that the standard rule established by the Commission. This rule prevents former officials from participating in meetings with their former colleagues, either at their place of work or in company premises. It applies to former Directors-General, Deputy Directors-General, Directors, and officials having held other management posts. 4. The peer review to which the Honourable Member appears to refer is a particular form of scrutiny which can be organised for major and complex antitrust, merger or state aid cases. It is meant to provide assistance to the case team, as well as to all those involved in the decision-making process, in particularly complex cases. In the area of merger control, peer reviews normally take place in a limited number of problematic cases that are subject to a second-phase in-depth investigation (which was not the case in Alcan-Péchiney). Peer review of any given case is a strictly internal process, information on which is not disclosed outside the Commission, not even to the parties to the case. 5 and 6. The Commission wishes to inform the Honourable Members that Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), OJ L 136, 31.5.1999. provides different conditions under which the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may or shall forward the information obtained in the course of investigations to the concerned institutions, bodies, agencies and offices. OLAF acts in conformity with these provisions. As indicated above, in this particular matter, the questions of the Honourable Members are directly linked to national investigations by administrative and judicial authorities. The Commission therefore will at this stage refrain from commenting on this matter. The Parliament will be informed in due form at the appropriate time.