Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (30 July 2007) The Commission has been informed that the Irish High Court upheld the challenge of Greencore, the Irish sugar processor, to the decision of the Irish Government to fix the percentage of the restructuring aid to be given to farmers and machinery contractors at 32.38 %. The rules of the Temporary Restructuring Fund for the sugar industry Council Regulation (EC) No 320/2006 of 20 February 2006 establishing a temporary scheme for the restructuring of the sugar industry in the Community and amending Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy, OJ L 58, 28.2.2006. foresee that a minimum of 10 % of the aid received by an undertaking has to be given to growers and machinery contractors in order to compensate them for the loss incurred due to the closure of factories they had supplied previously. Member States may increase this percentage after consultation of the interested parties. Greencore has been granted restructuring aid for the closure and full dismantling of its sugar factory for the 2006/07 marketing year. Therefore, the date for the payment of the first instalment was the end of June 2007. The aid to farmers and machinery contractors has to be paid by the undertaking no later than two months after receiving the aid or, if the aid is paid directly by the Member State, at the same time as the aid to the undertaking. The second instalment of Greencore's restructuring aid is due in February 2008 and no compensation is lost to the Irish industry if there is a delay in allocating money between the undertaking and the growers. Each instalment of the restructuring aid is paid to the undertaking after the lodging of a security of 120 % of the amount in question. This provision enables the Member State to recover any amounts for which the undertaking has not respected its obligations laid down in the restructuring plan and to impose sanctions. The securities are only released after all measures and actions foreseen in the restructuring plan have been carried out by the undertaking and controlled by the Member State. After the ruling of the Irish High Court, it is up to the competent Irish authorities to decide if they want to fix a new percentage of the aid to be given to growers and contractors or implement the minimum 10 % foreseen in the regulation. The Commission is not in a position to interfere in this decision. However, the Commission has presented a proposal to the Council which provides additional incentives for undertakings and growers participating in the Temporary Restructuring Fund in the 2008/09 marketing year. This proposal also foresees a retroactive payment for undertakings and growers who already took part in the scheme in the 2006/07 and 2007/08 marketing years. The proposed retroactive payment concerns the difference between the aid received and the amount that would have been received under the conditions applicable for the 2008/09 marketing year.