Centre's budget for the financial year 2001. At the sitting of 13 March 2003, the President of Parliament announced that he had referred this document to the Committee on Budgetary Control as the committee responsible, and to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs for its opinion ( C5-0097/2003 ). European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia By letter of 27 November 2002, the Court of Auditors forwarded to Parliament its report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia for the financial year 2001, together with the Centre's replies (2003/2042(DEC)). At the sitting of 13 March 2003, the President of Parliament announced that he had referred this document to the Committee on Budgetary Control, as the committee responsible, and to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs for its opinion ( C5-0094/2003 ). On 10 March 2003, the Council forwarded to Parliament its recommendation on the discharge to be given to the Director of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia in respect of the implementation of the Centre's budget for the financial year 2001. At the sitting of 13 March 2003, the President of Parliament announced that he had referred this document to the Committee on Budgetary Control as the committee responsible, and to the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs for its opinion ( C5-0095/2003 ). At its meeting of 10 September 2002, the Committee on Budgetary Control appointed Freddy Blak rapporteur. At its meetings of 10 and 19 March 2003, the Committee on Budgetary Control considered the Court of Auditors' reports, the Council recommendations and the draft report. At the last meeting it adopted: 1. the proposal for a decision on the postponement of the decision concerning discharge to the Directors of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, of the European Environment Agency, of the Translation Centre for the bodies of the European Union, of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, in respect of the implementation of each Agency's budget for the financial year 2001, unanimously. 2. the motion for a resolution containing the comments accompanying the proposal for a decision on the postponement of the decision concerning discharge to the Directors of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, of the European Environment Agency, of the Translation Centre for the bodies of the European Union, of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, in respect of the implementation of each Agency's budget for the financial year 2001, unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Diemut R. Theato, chairman, Herbert Bösch, 1st vice-chairman, Freddy Blak, 2nd vice-chairman and rapporteur; María Antonia Avilés Perea, Juan José Bayona de Perogordo, Manuel António dos Santos (for Eluned Morgan), Christopher Heaton-Harris, Helmut Kuhne, Brigitte Langenhagen, John Joseph McCartin (for Generoso Andria), Emmanouil Mastorakis (for Paulo Casaca), Jan Mulder (for Antonio Di Pietro), Ole