Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (24 January 2006) The Commission would refer to the answers already given to the previous two Written Questions E‑2362/05 and E‑3390/05 by the Honourable Member on the same subject, in which it stressed that road safety, including the safety of motorcyclists, but not just that, was one of the main objectives of its proposal for a third driving licence directive COM(2003)621 final. . Progressive access to more powerful motorcycles is specifically intended to improve the safety of riders of two-wheeled motorcycles, who rank among the most vulnerable road users. Moreover, while significant improvements have, in general, been recorded in terms of road safety statistics, motorcyclists are the only category where the number of deaths is at best levelling off, and is even increasing in some cases. The proportion of motorcyclist deaths in relation to the total number of deaths on the roads, which was comparatively stable at around 9.5 % until 1996, has steadily increased since then, reaching 14 % in 2003. If this trend continues, motorcyclists will account for one-third of all the fatalities on European roads in 2010. In absolute terms, the number of motorcyclists killed increased by 5.6 % between 2000 and 2003, while the total number of deaths on the roads fell by 12 % over the same period. The number of motorcyclists killed on the roads in the United Kingdom increased by 15 %. When preparing its proposal for a directive, the Commission held wide-ranging consultations with the motorcycle industry, which was satisfied with the proposal. The specific points to which the Honourable Member alludes were introduced by Council and Parliament neither of which, during their first reading of the text, identified any negative impact on economic activity or employment arising from the proposal or from these specific points. With this answer, and the two previous ones, the Commission believes it has provided the necessary explanations requested by the Honourable Member.