in particular to risk capital, guarantee funds and any other aid, especially during the business's start-up phase; to this end sufficient funds shall be made available, by increasing the appropriation in budget heading B5-512 for identifying, exchanging and implementing proven business methods, with priority being given to promoting the support of SMEs by "business angels"; (Amendment 59) Article 2(1)(d) (d) To enhance the competitiveness of SMEs in the knowledge-based economy. (d) To enhance the competitiveness of businesses, SMEs , micro-businesses and the craft industry in a knowledge-based economy as defined by the Lisbon European Council of 23-24 March 2000 through specific sectoral programmes, in which traditional occupations must also be included, and taking account of access to new information and communications technologies (NICTs); (Amendment 38) Article 2(1)(e) (e) To ensure that business support networks and services to enterprises are provided and co-ordinated ; (e) To improve access for enterprises to business support networks and services , as well as to the assistance and advice provided by intermediate economic and professional organisations as part of the BEST procedure ; (Amendment 39) Article 2(1)(ea) (new) (ea) To implement the principles and lines for action set out in the European Charter for Small Enterprises (Annex 3 to this Decision), targeting the above objectives and using additional measures, including those deriving from other Community programmes. (Amendment 40) Article 2(1)(eb) (new) (eb) To help SME-SMIs to work together with local authorities in the interests of local development. (Amendment 41) Article 2(2) 2. Concerted actions and benchmarking will be used in support of the objectives listed in Article 2(1) . 2. Concerted actions and benchmarking will be used in support of the objectives listed in paragraph 1, and in all the legal, financial or economic measures which have an effect on business competitiveness. With a view to maximising the benefits of the BEST procedure, a results table will be set up and the information provided should be widely publicised. (Amendment 42) Article 2(2a) (new) 2a.However, SME support policies that interfere with market operation or support uncommercial projects will be discouraged. (Amendment 43) Article 2(2b) (new) 2b. In addition to coordination with other programmes, the 4th Multiannual Programme will be dovetailed with national assistance structures, in keeping with the subsidiarity principle. Accordingly, efforts shall be made to determine the sectors where European measures are likely to yield genuine European value added and the activities in respect of which, with a view to implementation at SME level, national or regional assistance schemes should be used, e.g. owing to country-specific features or rules. (Amendment 44) Article 2(2c) (new) 2c. The programme will extend the three financial instruments used under the Growth and Employment Initiative. (Amendment 45) Article 2(2d) (new) 2d. The programme will strengthen loan guarantees and risk capital mechanisms so as to facilitate the establishment of small- and micro-sized enterprises. The Commission will ensure that funds allocated through the financial instruments are made available to the recipient SMEs without unnecessary delays. (Amendment 46) Article 2(2e) (new) 2e. The programme will give priority to women and young entrepreneurs and the craft