Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (3 September 2009) The Honourable Member correctly refers to an error made in the study carried out under contract from the Commission by the consortium led by Transport and Mobility Leuven (TML) on the ‘Effects of adapting the rules on weights and dimensions of heavy commercial vehicles as established within Directive 96/53/EC OJ L 235, 17.9.1996. ’. The study was undertaken following the Commission's ‘Logistics Action Plan’ and its findings were delivered to the Commission in November 2008. The error relates to one of the three research methodologies used in the study to assess the impact of longer and heavier vehicles on road transport demand and road traffic generation. After being spotted, the error was consequently corrected in a two-page addendum that was then incorporated into the final report which is now accessible on the website of the Energy and Transport Directorate-General (DG TREN). TML have assured the Commission that the error did not at any stage have any consequences on the rest of the report and on its conclusions, as these were based on calculations using the Transtools model. Since then, the Joint Research Centre (JRC) in Seville has reassessed the TML study, along with all the other available studies, including those done on behalf of the rail operators. As with the TML study, JRC also suggests that additional and more detailed analysis of this issue would be required before taking any decisions on amending the current directive. A stakeholder's workshop held on 24 June 2009 http://ec.europa.eu/transport/road/events/2009_06_24_workshop_on_gigaliners_en.htm has been instrumental in helping to develop the terms of reference for new, more detailed studies to be launched later in 2009. It has been decided that completing two additional, closely-linked studies will still be necessary. The first will need to address the economic issues that have not yet been analysed, such as the economic and social effects of the wider use of ‘modular concepts’ on different regions, especially those that are served to a higher than average extent by multi-modal transport. Further, the impact of changing fuel costs on the research methodology and the outcome of the analysis, as well as the dynamic effects on modal split of greater efficiency in road transport, will also need to be looked into in the study. The second study is to focus on the technical aspects of ‘modular concepts’ if they were to be considered for use in the EU, as well as on other issues brought forward by the transport industry stakeholders in the course of the ongoing consultations between the Commission and the European business community. In addition, in order to best define the scope and ensure full neutrality of the two studies still to be carried out, the Commission intends to set up a peer group review later in 2009, which will aim to include all the parties that have conducted similar studies in their respective areas, regardless of whether or not they support the use of longer and heavier vehicles in Europe. The Commission would expect that the full conclusions of these