Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (4 September 2006) With regard to the issue of minors who have applied for asylum and who may be detained in a Member State, the relevant EU instrument is Council Directive 2003/9/EC (the ‘Reception Conditions Directive’) Council Directive 2003/9/EC of 27 January 2003, laying down minimum standards for the reception of asylum‑seekers, OJ L 31, 6.2.2003. , which lays down minimum standards for the reception of asylum‑seekers. Article 18 of this directive stresses the importance of taking into account the best interests of the child when implementing the provisions of the directive that involve minors and imposes on Member States the obligation to ensure access to rehabilitation services and appropriate mental healthcare to minors who have been victims of any form of abuse, torture or who have suffered from armed conflicts. Article 19 of the directive, which deals specifically with unaccompanied minors, obliges Member States to ensure their representation and to endeavour to trace the members of their family as soon as possible. Moreover, Paragraph 2 of this article provides that unaccompanied minors who have applied for asylum should be placed with adult relatives or with a foster-family or in accommodation centres with special provisions for minors or in other accommodation suitable for minors. This provision also prohibits the separation of siblings, and stipulates that changes of residence of unaccompanied minors should be limited to a minimum and that only unaccompanied minors aged 16 or over may be placed in accommodation centres for adult asylum‑seekers. The Commission (Eurostat) does not currently hold any data on asylum-seekers who are temporarily in reception centres, so it is not possible to give the exact number of asylum-seekers who are below the age of 18, as requested by the Honourable Member. The only available statistics which come close to the requested data are those covering unaccompanied and separate children seeking asylum. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) prepared in 2004 a statistical report on this matter ‘Trends in unaccompanied and separated children seeking asylum in industrialised countries, 2001‑03’, UNHCR July 2004. . A table in this report contains data for 20 of the 25 Member States (all except France, Italy, Luxembourg, Estonia and Lithuania). It shows that in 2003, 7711 asylum requests from unaccompanied children were registered, that is 3.64 % of all asylum requests ( 211543 ). In order to have better information at EU level of the number of unaccompanied minors who request asylum, the Commission has proposed in its proposal for a regulation of the Parliament and of the Council on Community statistics on international migration COM(2005)375 final. that Member States should collect data on ‘applicants for international protection who are considered by the responsible national authority to be unaccompanied minors’ (See Article 4.2.a) of the proposal. The proposal is currently being negotiated in the Parliament and in the Council.