policyholder led him to stay with the company longer than he should have, with the consequence of having to pay a 20% penalty when leaving the company. In an e-mail of 7 June 2006 (annex to WE43) the Office of the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman confirms to Mr. VINALL they were "aware of the complaints having been made by many individuals ... that they had been reassured by the FSA that there was no reason to be alarmed as to the solvency of the Society." Among a number of allegations that UK regulators (in particular HM Treasury and FSA) knew already in 1998 of a potential GAR problem at Equitable but took no action, an article in SAGA magazine 'Saga Magazine' was originally a newsletter focused on providing value-for-money for people aged 50+; today it is a publication reaching over 1.25 million readers each month (source: www.saga.co.uk). (September 2001) cited a leaked memo from a civil servant to the FSA managing director, dated 5 November 1998: it expressed concern " about whether Equitable had the reserves to pay its guaranteed annuities. The information received to date is unconvincing and raises serious questions about the company's solvency see WE53 annex N-1. ." In WE-FILE17, Mr. HARDING specifically points out alleged regulatory failure subsequent to the House of Lords ruling (20 July 2000), as "it may have been too late to save the Equitable in the absence of a cash injection from the Government, (but) it was not too late to ensure that the rights of non-GARs were also considered before transferring wealth from one policyholder to another." Commenting on the controversial policy cuts in 2000/2001, WE-CONF8 states that " the decision on the policy cuts, and how these were to be distributed, was one for the Society's board to make. The FSA would only have grounds to intervene if the proposed cuts breached either the contractual rights or the reasonable expectations of policyholders in general or any class of policyholder ... But the 'policy value' EL made available to its policyholders were a combination of the contractual value and the ( discretionary ) final bonus ... In this case the cuts reflected the poor investment returns over 2000 and 2001 and were broadly in line with the falls in that period that occurred in the major investment markets." Referring to allegations of untimely assessment of possible consequences of the Hyman litigation, WE-CONF8 states that " the FSA considered the decision to seek judgement on a test case in the courts was reasonable, given that EL was faced with an increasing number of complaints from GAR policyholders. Rather than dealing with these complaints individually, EL wanted the certainty of a precedent ", recalling how Lord Penrose had also found " no reasons to criticize the Society's board or executive management for taking steps to test the legal issues that had arisen WE16, chapter 1, para.120. " It concluded saying that the EL board had " carried out contingency planning for a wide range of possible outcomes, identifying that in the worst case it would have