(Article 336 of the TFEU), inasmuch as this will allow Parliament to take part on an equal footing with the Council in the adjustment of those regulations; New budgetary powers 41. Notes that the Treaty of Lisbon makes sweeping changes in the area of the Union's finances, particularly as regards interinstitutional relations and decision-making procedures; 42. Points out that the Council and Parliament must agree, within the limits of own resources, on the programming of expenditure which becomes legally binding (Article 312 of the TFEU); welcomes the fact that the budget as a whole must be adopted jointly by Parliament and the Council, in compliance with the multiannual financial framework; welcomes the abolition of the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure (Article 314 of the TFEU); welcomes the fact that the adoption of the financial regulation will be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure (Article 322 of the TFEU); 43. Refers to its resolution of 7 May 2009 on the financial aspects of the Treaty of Lisbon Texts adopted, P6_TA-PROV(2009)0374 . ; New consent procedure 44. Welcomes the fact that the simplified revision procedure with regard to the introduction of qualified majority voting and the introduction of the ordinary legislative procedure in a given area under Title V of the TEU or under the TFEU requires the consent of Parliament; 45. Notes the introduction of an "exit clause" for the Member States (Article 50 of the TEU); underlines that the agreement laying down the arrangements for the withdrawal of a Member State from the Union may not be concluded until after Parliament has given its consent; 46. Welcomes the fact that Parliament's consent will be required for a wide range of international agreements signed by the Union; underlines its intention to request the Council, where appropriate, not to open negotiations on international agreements until Parliament has stated its position, and to allow Parliament, on the basis of a report from the committee responsible, to adopt at any stage in the negotiations recommendations which are to be taken into account before the conclusion of negotiations; 47. Urges that any future "mixed" agreement combining non-CFSP and CFSP elements must normally be dealt with under a single legal basis, which should be the one directly related to the main subject-matter of the agreement; notes that Parliament will have the right to be consulted, except where the agreement relates exclusively to the CFSP; New powers of scrutiny 48. Welcomes the fact that the President of the Commission will be elected by Parliament, on a proposal of the European Council, taking into account the elections to the European Parliament; refers to its resolution of 7 May 2009 on the impact of the Treaty of Lisbon on the development of the institutional balance of the European Union Texts adopted, P6_TA-PROV(2009)0387 . ; 49. Welcomes the fact that the Vice-President of the Commission/High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, together with the other members of the Commission, as a body, will be subject to a vote of consent by Parliament, as well as to a