improvement of containment and recovery is not feasible, voluntary initiatives by some industry sectors needs to be taken into account as well as the fact that the development of alternatives is still ongoing. ( 9 ) The Kyoto Protocol requires reporting on emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases and data on the production, imports and export of fluorinated greenhouse gases can help to validate the accuracy of these reports. Annual reporting should therefore be required from producers, importers and exporters of fluorinated greenhouse gases. In order to fulfil their obligations under the Kyoto Protocol to record and report on emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases on their territory, the Member States should also be able to stipulate additional national reporting requirements. ( 10 ) Emissions of hydrofluorocarbon-134a (HFC-134a) from air conditioners in motor vehicles are of growing concern because of their impact on climate change. Cost-effective and safe alternatives are expected to be available imminently. These alternatives are not damaging or are considerably less damaging to the climate and do not adversely affect vehicles" energy consumption and related carbon dioxide emissions . ( 11 ) In order to facilitate the monitoring and verification of the leakage rates of air conditioning systems in new vehicles, the Commission will promote the preparation of European standards and will take other necessary measures in order to amend the pertinent European vehicle type approval legislation. (12) Putting into service, servicing, maintenance, as well as recovery and inspection activities are international professions, which should be carried out by adequately trained and certified professionals. The development of a European set of criteria for professional qualifications is essential for achieving the objective of this Regulation. ( 13 ) Provision should be made for the monitoring, evaluation and review of the provisions contained in this Regulation. ( 14 ) Member States should lay down rules on sanctions applicable to infringements of this Regulation and ensure that those rules are implemented. Those sanctions must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. ( 15 ) This Regulation respects the fundamental rights and observes the principles recognised in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. ( 16 ) Since, in order to preserve the internal market, the objective of the proposed action, namely the containment, reporting, control of use and placing on the market of certain fluorinated greenhouse gases, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States acting individually, and can therefore by reason of the scale and effects of the proposed action be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. ( 17 ) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Article 4 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999,