contentious scientific issues. 3. Where a substantive divergence over scientific issues remains after the procedure referred to in paragraph 2, the Authority shall indicate in its opinion the existence of these divergent opinions and shall give its opinion on them so that the Commission, Parliament and Council have comprehensive information available to them. Amendment 122 Article 29, paragraph 4 4. Where a substantive conflict over scientific issues has been identified and the body in question is a Member State body, the Authority and the national body shall be obliged to cooperate, in consultation with the Advisory Forum, with a view to either resolving the conflict or presenting a joint document clarifying the contentious scientific issues. Deleted Amendment 123 Article 29, paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. Where a substantive divergence over scientific issues has been identified and could not be resolved through cooperation as described in paragraphs 2 and 3, the opinion of the Authority shall prevail . Amendment 124 Article 31, paragraph 1 1. The Authority shall commission scientific studies necessary for the performance of its mission. The Authority shall seek to avoid duplication with Member State or Community research programmes and shall foster cooperation through appropriate coordination. 1. Using the best independent scientific resources available, the Authority shall commission scientific studies necessary for the performance of its mission . Such studies shall be commissioned in an open and transparent fashion. The Authority shall seek to avoid duplication with Member State or Community research programmes and shall foster cooperation through appropriate coordination. Amendment 125 Article 32, paragraph 1, point (a) (a) food consumption and the exposure of individuals to risks related to the consumption of food; (a) the exposure of individuals to risks related to the consumption of food; Amendment 126 Article 32, paragraph 1, point (b) (b) incidence and prevalence of biological risk; (b) incidence and prevalence of biological risk related to the consumption of food ; Amendment 127 Article 32, paragraph 1, point (c) (c) contaminants in food intended for human and animal consumption , including residues. (c) contaminants in food intended for human and animal consumption; Amendment 128 Article 32, paragraph 1, point (c a) (new) (ca) residues. Amendment 129 Article 33, paragraph 2 2. Where the Authority has information leading to the suspicion of a serious risk, it shall request additional information from the Member States, other Community agencies and the Commission. The Member States, the Community agencies concerned and the Commission shall reply as quickly as possible and forward any relevant information in their possession. 2. Where the Authority has information leading to the suspicion of a risk, it shall request additional information from the Member States, other Community agencies and the Commission. The Member States, the Community agencies concerned and the Commission shall reply as a matter of urgency and forward any relevant information in their possession. Amendment 130 Article 33, paragraph 4 4. The Authority shall forward the information collected on emerging risks to the European Parliament, the Commission and the Member States. 4. The Authority shall forward the evaluation of, and information collected on,