WRITTEN QUESTION E-4438/07 by Angelika Beer (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (18 September 2007) Subject: Polish Operational Programme Infrastructure and Environment 2007‑13 project carried out by Higher School of Social and Media Culture of Radio Maryja Priority XIII: Infrastructure of Higher Education of the Polish Operational Programme Infrastructure and Environment, which is part of the Polish National Strategic Reference Framework for the implementation of EU Structural Funds, contains a list of individual projects. The project in question, ‘Incubator of Modern Technologies for Development of Civil Society’ (number 175) is planned to be carried out by the ‘Higher School of Social and Media Culture’ in Torun (Poland), which according to media reports is controlled by the Director of Radio Maryja, Mr Tadeusz Rydzyk. 1. Is the Commission aware that the proposal for the Polish Operational Programme contains support for a project which would be carried out by an institution under the control of a person whose radio has been condemned for broadcasting racist and xenophobic statements, thus instigating violations of human rights and the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights? 2. How will the Commission guarantee the prevention of discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation during the various stages of implementation of the Funds in this project, as required under Article 16 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 OJ L 210, 31.7.2006, p. 25. of 11 July? 3. How does the Commission intend to ensure that Poland complies with Article 9(5) of the abovementioned Regulation which states that ‘operations financed by the Funds shall comply with the provisions of the Treaty and of acts adopted under it’? How will the Commission verify that Poland complies with its obligations under Article 70, paragraph 1 (b) which says that Member States are responsible for ‘preventing, detecting and correcting irregularities and recovering amounts unduly paid together with interest on late payments where appropriate?’ Will the Commission possibly use its powers under Article 92, paragraph 1 c of the regulation (suspension or reduction of payments) if it considers that Poland does not comply with its responsibilities?