31 December 2007 at the latest, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the achievement of the objectives of this programme. This report shall be based on the results obtained by the beneficiaries and shall assess, in particular, their effectiveness in achieving the objectives set out in Article 1 and the Annex. The report shall be based fundamentally on an external assessment report which should be made available no later than the end of 2006 and should examine at least the overall relevance and coherence of the programme, the effectiveness of its execution (preparation, selection and implementation of the measures) and the overall and individual effectiveness of the various measures (in relation to the achievement of the objectives specified in Article 1 and the Annex). Justification The aim is to determine the characteristics of the assessment report. Amendment 12 Annex, paragraph 1, point 1.1., fifth indent - Reinforcing the aspect of equality between men and women in the EU enlargement process. - Reinforcing the aspect of equality between men and women in the EU enlargement process and developing cooperation with women's organisations in the new Member States . Justification It is essential to involve women's organisations in the new Member States in European projects concerning equality between men and women, in view of the lack of support these organisations receive in their own countries, and in view of the deterioration in the status of women caused by the economic and social transition process in certain countries. Amendment 13 Annex, paragraph 1, point 1.2., fourth indent - action promoting, inter alia, the reconciliation of working and family life, the involvement of women in decision-making, the fight against gender-related violence, gender stereotypes and discrimination at work. - action promoting, inter alia, the linking of working and family life, the involvement of women in decision-making, the fight against all forms of gender-related violence, gender stereotypes and discrimination at work, as well as gender mainstreaming in education, sport, health and social protection . Justification Gender mainstreaming in policies concerning education, sport, health and social protection is particularly important in order to ensure respect for women's human rights. Amendment 14 Annex, paragraph 1, point 1.2., indent 4a (new) - measures fostering cooperation with women's organisations in third countries and raising awareness of the situation of women worldwide. Justification Outward-looking women's organisations which help to bring Europe and other continents closer together are in danger of being excluded from the programme. Women's rights are a global issue requiring links with third countries. Concern for the situation of women in the rest of the world should not be confined to resolutions but should also find expression in Community programmes. Amendment 15 Annex, paragraph 2, introductory sentence The activities carried out by bodies which may receive a Community grant under the programme will come under one of the following strands: The activities carried out by organisations which may receive a Community grant under the programme will come under one of the following strands: Justification This amendment aims to maintain coherence in the text