Answer given by Mr Cioloş on behalf of the Commission (2 September 2011) The Honourable Member is asking clarification on ploughing-up of set-aside land in Denmark in the period between 2007 and 2010 following the abolishment of the set aside requirement. In reply to the Honourable Member's questions, the Commission would like to remind that the set-aside was initially introduced as a market instrument to limit the cultivated area, delivering in addition also environmental benefits. The decision to allow, for 2008, the use of set-aside land for agricultural production was aimed at avoiding the internal market to be exposed to serious risks due to exceptionally high prices of cereals. The major part of the direct support for farmers under the common agricultural policy (CAP) has been, following the introduction of the single payment scheme (SPS), decoupled from the production since 2005. Despite the derogation from the obligatory set aside in 2008, the farmers were not obliged to cultivate the areas, but they could choose to continue to leave the areas un-cultivated. Furthermore, cross compliance continued to apply to all agricultural areas, meaning that the farmer had to respect the requirements for good agricultural and environmental condition (GAEC) in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 1782/2003 OJ L 270, 21.10.2003. . In order to facilitate farmers' response to market conditions and to simplify implementation of the SPS, the set aside obligation was abolished in 2009 within the framework of the so-called ‘Health Check’. At the same occasion the EU framework for good agriculture and environmental conditions was reinforced. In particular, the EU provisions aimed at protecting specified landscape features and at protecting water against pollution and run-off. Furthermore, the measures on the maintenance of permanent pasture have been kept. Pursuant to Article 6(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 73/2009 OJ L 30, 31.1.2009. , it is for Member States to define their GAEC standards at national or regional level ‘taking into account the specific characteristics of the areas concerned, including soil and climatic condition, existing farming systems, land use, crop rotation, farming practices, and farm structures’. There was no direct link between the market measure set-aside and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive (WFD) Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, OJ L 327, 22.12.2000. . However, it could be integrated by Member States as a measure supporting water protection. Well located set-aside can buffer watercourses from surface run-off and prevent pesticide drift into it. Nevertheless, under the WFD Member States have the obligation to establish and implement programmes of measures (PoM) for their river basins, which are appropriate to achieve the good ecological status of water by 2015. Set-aside is one of the available tools to contribute to this objective and, if appropriate, the Member-States had the possibility to select this measure among others for their PoM. The Member States had to adopt their River Basin Management Plans (RBMP), including the PoM, by 2009. The Commission is currently assessing the quality of