for criminal sanctions for particularly serious and intentional or grossly negligent infringements of data protection provisions. Amendment 6 Recital 20 (20) The present Framework Decision is without prejudice to the specific data protection provisions laid down in the relevant legal instruments relating to the processing and protection of personal data by Europol, Eurojust and the Customs Information System. (20) The present Framework Decision is without prejudice to the specific data protection provisions laid down in the relevant legal instruments relating to the processing and protection of personal data by Europol, Eurojust and the Customs Information System. However, at the latest two years after the date referred to in Article 35(1), the specific data protection provisions applicable to Europol, Eurojust and the Customs Information System should be made fully consistent with this Framework Decision, with a view to enhancing the consistency and effectiveness of the legal framework on data protection pursuant to a proposal by the Commission. Amendment 7 Recital 20 a (new) (20a) Europol, Eurojust and the Customs Information System should retain those of their data protection rules which clearly provide that personal data may be processed, consulted or transmitted only on the basis of more specific and/or protective conditions or restrictions. Amendment 8 Recital 22 (22) It is appropriate that this Framework Decision applies to the personal data which are processed in the framework of the second generation of the Schengen Information System and the related exchange of supplementary information pursuant to Decision JHA/2006/ … on the establishment, operation and use of the second generation Schengen information system. (22) It is appropriate that this Framework Decision applies to the personal data which are processed in the framework of the second generation of the Schengen Information System and the related exchange of supplementary information pursuant to Decision 2006/.../JHA on the establishment, operation and use of the second generation Schengen information system and in the context of the Visa Information System pursuant to Council Decision 2006/.../JHA of... on access for consultation purposes to the Visa Information System (VIS) by the authorities of Member States responsible for internal security and by Europol for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences and of other serious criminal offences 1 . ______________________ OJ L ... Amendment 9 Recital 32 a (new) (32a) Having regard to the Opinion of the European Data Protection Supervisor, Amendment 10 Article 1, paragraph 2 2. Member States shall ensure that the disclosure of personal data to the competent authorities of other Member States is neither restricted nor prohibited for reasons connected with the protection of personal data as provided for in this Framework Decision. 2. This Framework Decision does not preclude Member States from providing safeguards for the protection of personal data in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters greater than those established in this Framework Decision. However, any such provisions may not restrict or prohibit the disclosure of personal data to the competent authorities of other Member States for reasons connected with the protection of personal data as provided for in this Framework