the Committee on Environment and Public Health in mid-March but they fell apart. However, the Commissioner for Transport and Energy, Loyola de PALACIO stated in the parliamentary debate that the Council view is not too far from the Parliament's position so an agreement should be in sight for the second reading after the European Parliament elections. The aim of the directive is to increase the energy efficiency of products such as hairdryers, shavers, washing machines and laptops. The directive applies to a vast range of products, which are responsible for about 40% of CO 2 emissions into the atmosphere. Making energy- using products as energy-saving as possible in turn helps the EU to meet its Kyoto targets. Almost every imaginable such product is affected except motor vehicles, which are regulated elsewhere. However, since it is a framework directive, the legislation will acquire flesh on its bones only when followed by implementing measures laying down precise eco-design rules. These are to be adopted by the Commission, which in turn is to be assisted by a regulatory committee. Unless implementing measures are adopted, no legal obligations flow from the framework directive for manufacturers. Parliament was not happy with the general approach of the directive. It passed an important amendment clarifying which products should be affected first. MEPs said that one year after the adoption of the framework directive the Commission should adopt implementing measures for those products that offer a high potential for cost-effective reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. These are heating and water heating equipment, electric motor systems, lighting in both the domestic and tertiary sectors, domestic appliances, office equipment, consumer electronics and HVAC (heating ventilating air conditioning) systems. Stand-by losses of all products should also be regulated rapidly. Parliament also adopted new consumer information requirements for manufacturers and distributors. These must ensure that consumers are provided with information on the environmental impact of the product throughout its life cycle, the ecological profile of the product and the benefits of eco-design as well as the role they themselves can play in reducing energy consumption by sustainable use of the product. MEPs also want industry and environmental NGOs to be given a say in eco-design. An amendment was adopted establishing an Eco-Design Board with balanced participation of all relevant interested parties. Other aspects of the directive clarified by MEPs were market surveillance, self-regulation and generic and specific eco-design requirements. Press enquiries: Leena Maria Linnus (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 887 63969 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42825 e-mail : envi-press@europarl.eu.int MEPs call for strict recycling scheme for batteries throughout the EU Hans BLOKLAND (EDD, NL) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on batteries and accumulators and spent batteries and accumulators ( COM(2003) 723 – C5-0563/2003 – 2003/0282(COD)) Doc.: A5-0265/2004 Procedure : Codecision (1st reading) Debate : 19.04.2004 Vote: 20.04.2004 Vote The European Parliament adopted at first reading clear targets for recycling of batteries and accumulators throughout the EU. After a lengthy voting session the Parliament stood by its rapporteur Hans BLOKLAND (EDD, NL) and adopted stricker limits for both recycling and recovery of used