of the ECB in financial stability issues, the significance of EU enlargement for the ECB and the management of the ECB’s human resources are examples of tasks that have evolved considerably over the last six years. Whether or not the same Executive Board member should continue to take care of the changing content of a certain issue remains for the Executive Board to decide at the appropriate point in time. 14. What challenges do you think the ECB's monetary policy will face during the preparation of Euro entry by the accession countries and after their entry? What is your opinion regarding the pace at which the accession countries should join monetary union and adopt the Euro, considering all of the convergence criteria and the participation in the exchange rate mechanism (ERM II)? It is very important for the Eurosystem and, particularly, for the acceding countries themselves that the new exchange rate mechanism (ERM II) – and their participation in it – should function smoothly as a successful framework for achieving sustainable convergence. Not every country will be in a position to join ERM II from the outset. While all new Member States are expected to adopt the euro once they fulfil the Maastricht criteria on a sustainable basis, there is no single trajectory towards the euro that can be identified and recommended for all new Member States. The new Member States differ in their economic structure as well as in their exchange rate and monetary regimes and in the degree of nominal and real convergence that they have already achieved. This is why it is not possible to plot a single course that would be best for all the new Member States on their way to the euro area. This reasoning applies to the entire process of monetary integration, including membership of the exchange rate mechanism (ERM II), in which countries have to participate for at least two years prior to the convergence assessment leading to the adoption of the euro. The timing of entry into the mechanism, as well as the duration of participation, should also reflect what is best in terms of fostering macroeconomic stability in the new Member State concerned. When choosing the pace at which the new Member States plan to join the euro area, countries should (and in fact do) consider what strategy towards ERM II and the euro enhances their prospects of achieving a lasting convergence of economic fundamentals. In this connection I would like to emphasise the importance of an overall sound policy framework for the success of ERM II participation. In particular, for participation in ERM II to be smooth, it is necessary that major policy adjustments be undertaken prior to participation in the mechanism and that the participating Member States pursue, where necessary, credible fiscal consolidation. In any case, the ECB monetary policy strategy is well equipped to work also in an enlarged euro area. In particular, the aim of the ECB to maintain inflation rates below but close to 2% can easily accommodate some cross-regional inflation differentials that might emerge after the