necessary, a relative majority shall suffice for election to the remaining seats. In the event of a tie the eldest candidates shall be declared elected. Although this Rule, unlike Rule 13(1), does not expressly provide for new nominations to be introduced between ballots during the election of Vice-Presidents, such action is permissible because Parliament, being a sovereign body, must be able to consider all possible candidates, especially since the absence of such an option might impede the smooth running of the election. 2. Subject to the provisions of Rule 17(1), the Vice-Presidents shall take precedence in the order in which they were elected and, in the event of a tie, by age. Where they are not elected by secret ballot, the order in which their names are read out to the House by the President shall determine the order of precedence. Rule 15 Election of Quaestors After the election of the Vice-Presidents, Parliament shall elect five Quaestors. The Quaestors shall be elected by the same procedure as the Vice-Presidents. Notwithstanding the provisions of the first paragraph, for the period from January 2007 to July 2009 Parliament shall elect six Quaestors. Rule 16 Term of office of Officers 1. The term of office of the President, Vice-Presidents and Quaestors shall be two and a half years. When members change political groups they shall retain, for the remainder of their two and a half year term of office, any seat they hold in the Bureau or the College of Quaestors. 2. Should a vacancy for one of these positions occur before the expiry of this term, the Member elected shall serve only for the remaining period of his or her predecessor's term of office. Rule 17 Vacancies 1. Should it be necessary for the President, a Vice-President or a Quaestor to be replaced, the successor shall be elected in accordance with the above rules. A newly elected Vice-President shall take the place of the predecessor in the order of precedence. 2. Should the President's seat become vacant, the first Vice-President shall act as President until a new President is elected. Rule 18 Early termination of an office The Conference of Presidents may, acting by a majority of three-fifths of the votes cast, representing at least three political groups, propose to Parliament to terminate the holding of office of the President, a Vice-President, a Quaestor, a Chair or Vice-Chair of a committee, a Chair or Vice-Chair of an interparliamentary delegation, or any other holder of an office elected within the Parliament, where it considers that the Member in question has been guilty of serious misconduct. Such a proposal shall be approved by Parliament by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast, representing a majority of its component Members. CHAPTER 3 BODIES AND DUTIES Rule 19 Duties of the President 1. The President shall direct all the activities of Parliament and its bodies under the conditions laid down in these Rules and shall enjoy all the powers necessary to preside over the proceedings of Parliament and to ensure that they are properly conducted. Rule 19(1)