STATEMENT Background The Commission adopted its proposal for a Regulation amending Regulation 1394/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with the industrialised and other high-income countries and territories (ICI-Regulation) on 21 April 2009. The proposal was presented as part of the mid-term review of the external financing instruments. The main objective is to extend the scope of the ICI Regulation to include also cooperation with developing countries covered by Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 of 18 December 2006, the Development cooperation instrument (DCI) for geographical cooperation with countries in Asia, Central Asia and Latin America, plus Iraq, Iran, Yemen and South Africa. The amended ICI Regulation would provide a proper legal basis for (financing) activities which do not fulfil the criteria of Official Development Assistance (ODA) as set by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (DAC/OECD) and are on that basis excluded from the DCI Regulation. The amended ICI Regulation would further deepen the European Union's relations with countries which are both developing and major partners in the world economy, such as China, Brazil and Mexico and regions like Central Asia and the Middle East, Asia, Latin America, as well as South Africa. The reference amount that is added is EUR 176 million for the period 2010-2013. I. The legislative procedure before conciliation (1st and 2nd reading) The European Parliament adopted its first reading on 21 October 2010. It proposed to improve the Parliament's involvement in programming, evaluation and reporting of multiannual cooperation programmes and introduced some amendments on the financing of the ICI instrument. The Council adopted its position at first reading at 10 December 2010. Many amendments were accepted but the Council did not accept European Parliament's request for delegated acts for the adoption of multiannual cooperation programmes (multiannual strategy papers) as being non-legally binding acts in the opinion of the Council which should therefore be adopted as implementing measures. It also did not accept the amendments on article 16 regarding the financing (Council argued that this should be decided by the two budgetary branches (EP and Council) in the framework of the annual budgetary procedure). Parliament adopted its second reading on 3 February 2011 (confirming the first reading position). Council adopted its second reading on 19 July 2011. II. Conciliation Following the second reading vote of 3 February and given the political will to conclude the conciliation as soon as possible the constituent meeting of the EP delegation to the conciliation committee took place in Strasbourg on 15 February 2011. The EP delegation decided to negotiate the four files (DCI, DCI/BAM, ICI+ and EIDHR) concerned as a package. On the mid-term review of the DCI and the EIDHR, it was agreed that they would remain unchanged as no new strategy papers are foreseen until 2013. Therefore the negotiations continued on the ICI+ file Proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1934/2006 establishing a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high-income countries and territories, 2009/0059(COD) . (with 1 strategy paper left) and the DCI/BAM file Proposal for a European Parliament and Council