WRITTEN QUESTION E-3618/06 by Mogens Camre (UEN) to the Commission (7 August 2006) Subject: Travelling refugees During the current conflict between the State of Israel and the groups which abuse Islam for terrorist ends, I note that the Commission, as part of its press strategy, has expressed its concern for the European citizens in the countries involved, and specifically in Lebanon. The national administrations of the Member States have of course undertaken a number of operations to get their nationals home. For example, the Danish foreign ministry has put a great effort into securing the return to Denmark of citizens with a Danish connection. I assume that the other 24 Member States have done likewise and the Commission presumably played a coordinating role in these operations. That was at any rate the impression given by the Commission representatives’ press statements. On Wednesday 10 July, 1050 people flew from Damascus to Denmark alone. It is thought another 1100 flew out shortly afterwards, and another 500 Danish nationals were carried on the same day on a Greek ferry from Beirut to Larnaca (Cyprus). The Greek vessel, a catamaran ferry, had been chartered by the Danish Government, and there was a team from the Danish emergency services ready in Larnaca to receive the Danish nationals. It is not known how many people with Danish connections are in the area. A figure of 10000 with Palestinian backgrounds has been mentioned, but there is still a great deal of uncertainty. The figures are from the Danish news agency Ritzau. Many of the people with links to Europe who were resident in Lebanon during the attacks are persons with refugee status or foreign nationals with a right of residence in the EU by virtue of the aliens legislation of the individual countries. That being so, I feel it would be relevant to clarify what proportion of those helped to leave Lebanon through these rescue operations are present in the EU with the status of refugees from Lebanon. It is clearly unacceptable for a person to obtain status as a refugee in a Western country if that person is then able to go on holiday to their country of origin. If that is so, what were they fleeing from? Can the Commission therefore please state how many of the persons brought home by the various Member States are present in the EU with refugee status?