Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (8 September 2010) The Commission agrees with the Honourable Member that the recent reports show that there are still shortcomings in Bulgaria and Romania with regard to the achievement of full compliance with identified benchmarks in the area of judicial reform as well as in the fight against corruption and in case of Bulgaria also organised crime. The Commission will continue to monitor progress in these areas. The mechanism will continue to be applied until all benchmarks have been met. 1. The Commission supports the lifting of internal border controls with Romania and Bulgaria providing that all pre-conditions are met. Corruption and organised crime are not part of the Schengen acquis evaluated in the context of the lifting of internal border controls (control of land, sea and air borders (airports); issuing of visas; police cooperation; readiness to connect to and use the Schengen Information System; and data protection). The evaluation of those pre-conditions is currently ongoing and is the responsibility of the Council. There are no indications that the lifting of internal border controls with 9 Member States in 2007 led to an overall increase in crime, in cross-border regions or elsewhere, taking into account also the strengthened police cooperation with these Schengen Member States. 2. The Commission also acknowledges that itinerant crime groups committing crimes such as shoplifting or home burglaries are a serious problem in a number of Member States. All available information indicates that criminals committing such crimes come from a variety of countries in Eastern Europe and from the western Balkans. The Commission supports the Belgian Presidency initiative to tackle this problem at European level. A questionnaire has been distributed by the Belgian Presidency among EU Member States in order to gain more insight and knowledge of the phenomenon. The results will be discussed on the occasion of an expert meeting planned on 20 and 21 September 2010. The Commission will participate in this meeting and see how it can contribute to helping to implement the conclusions and recommendations coming out of this expert meeting. 3. Police and judicial cooperation with other Member States is not part of the benchmarks evaluated under Cooperation and Verification Mechanism (CVM) in the context of which the progress reports are mentioned. However, it is clear that such cooperation will improve once the benchmarks of the CVM have been reached. Mutual recognition based instruments, such as the Council Framework Decision 2008/909/JHA of 27 November 2008 on the application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters imposing custodial sentences or measures involving deprivation of liberty for the purpose of their enforcement in the European Union OJ L 327, 5.12.2008 . build on mutual confidence between Member States and unless there is sufficient mutual confidence, cooperation will not work properly. At the same time, Bulgaria and Romania participate in the core instruments that regulate cross-border information exchange. Romania and Bulgaria are two of ten Member States that have already been authorised to exchange DNA reference profiles on the basis of the