for budgetary issues decides to dispute the financial compatibility of the proposal, it shall report its conclusions to Parliament which shall put them to the vote. 5. An act declared incompatible may be adopted by Parliament subject to the decisions of the Budgetary Authority. Rule 37 Access to documents and provision of information to Parliament 1. Throughout the whole legislative procedure Parliament and its committees shall request access to all documents relating to Commission proposals under the same conditions as the Council and its working parties. 2. During the examination of a Commission proposal, the committee responsible shall request the Commission and the Council to keep it informed about the progress of this proposal in the Council and its working parties and in particular to inform it of any emerging compromises which will substantially amend the original Commission proposal or of the intention of the Commission to withdraw its proposal. Rule 38 Representation of Parliament in Council meetings When the Council invites Parliament to take part in a Council meeting in which the Council acts in a legislative capacity, the President shall ask the chairman or rapporteur of the committee responsible, or another Member designated by the committee, to represent Parliament. Rule 39 Initiative pursuant to Article 192 of the EC Treaty 1. Parliament may request the Commission to submit to it any appropriate proposal pursuant to Article 192, second paragraph, of the EC Treaty by adopting a resolution on the basis of an own-initiative report from the committee responsible. The resolution shall be adopted by a majority of the component Members of Parliament. Parliament may, at the same time, fix a deadline for the submission of such a proposal. 2. Before initiating the procedure under Rule 45, the committee responsible shall establish, in the following cases, that no such proposal is under preparation: (a) such a proposal is not included in the Annual Legislative Programme; (b) the preparations of such a proposal have not started or are unduly delayed; (c) the Commission has not responded positively to earlier requests either from the committee responsible or contained in resolutions adopted by Parliament with a majority of the votes cast. 3. Parliament's resolution shall indicate the appropriate legal basis and be accompanied by detailed recommendations as to the content of the required proposals, which shall respect fundamental rights and the principle of subsidiarity. 4. Where a proposal has financial implications, Parliament shall indicate how sufficient financial resources can be provided. 5. The committee responsible shall monitor the progress of preparation of any legislative proposal drawn up following a particular request by Parliament. Rule 40 Consideration of legislative documents 1. Proposals from the Commission and other documents of a legislative nature shall be referred by the President to the committee responsible for consideration. In case of doubt the President may apply Rule 179(2) prior to the announcement in Parliament of referral to the committee responsible. Where a proposal is listed in the Annual Legislative Programme the committee responsible may decide to appoint a rapporteur to follow the preparatory phase of the proposal. Consultations by