new directive aligning EU environmental legislation with the UN Aarhus Convention's provisions on public participation in environmental decision-making, national defence projects will in future cease to be automatically excluded from the EU environmental impact assessment directive. In exchange, Parliament agreed with Council that plans and projects drawn up under specific environmental directives (e.g. on hazardous waste) should be exempt from the new legislation if they are intended solely for national defence purposes or civil emergencies. The Parliament delegation, chaired by Charlotte CEDERSCHIÖLD (EPP-ED, S), also succeeded in inserting a reporting and review clause committing the Commission to consider, in future, extending the directive to more plans and programmes relating to the environment. Under the deal hammered out by the two sides, changes to the EU's integrated pollution prevention and control directive will give the public a role in issuing permits for new installations and for substantial changes to installations, and in updating permits where the pollution caused is so great that the limit values need to be changed. This new directive on public participation in drawing up environmental plans and programmes is the second of three intended to align EU law with the UN 1998 Aarhus Convention. It opens up specific EU directives, including those on batteries and accumulators, hazardous waste and packaging, to public consultation and also amends the directives on environmental impact assessment (EIA) and integrated pollution prevention and control (IPPC) to give the public a greater role. Parliament and Council agree on early introduction of sulphur-free fuels for all vehicles Heidi Anneli HAUTALA (Greens/EFA, FIN) Report Doc.: A5-003/2003 Procedure : Codecision procedure (3rd reading) Debate : 29.01.2003 Heidi Anneli HAUTALA (Greens/EFA, FIN) will be seeking approval of a conciliation agreement on new fuel-quality legislation that will make sulphur-free petrol and diesel fuel mandatory from 2009, two years ahead of the deadline originally proposed by the Commission. The new fuels directive will also cover off-road machinery (such as bulldozers) and farm and forestry tractors, in addition to road vehicles, from 2009 (subject to review). This is something Parliament's Finnish Green reporter, fought for from the beginning, pointing out that although these vehicles only account for 8.5 per cent of diesel consumption in the EU they have a major impact on health and the environment. Another of Parliament's achievements in the conciliation negotiations is the inclusion of a reference to promoting and encouraging fiscal measures "at the appropriate national or Community level" as incentives to introduce cleaner fuels. The new directive, which defines "zero-sulphur" fuels as having a maximum sulphur content of 10 mg/kg (parts per million), will form part of the EU’s drive to improve air quality across Europe. Development & Cooperation Proactive policy needed to fight poverty-related diseases Anders WIJKMAN (EPP-ED, S) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on aid for poverty diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis) in developing countries ( COM(2002) 109 – C5-0100/2002 – 2002/0051(COD)) Doc.: A5-0394/2002 Procedure : Codecision procedure (1st reading) Debate : 30.01.2003 Poverty-related diseases weigh heavily on development policies, with much good work in recent years being wiped