discharge report drawn up by the committee responsible shall comprise: (a) a proposal for a decision granting or refusing to grant discharge; (a) a proposal for a decision granting discharge or postponing the discharge decision (April part session vote); or a proposal for a decision granting or refusing to grant discharge (October part session vote); (b) a proposal for a decision closing the accounts of all the Community's revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities; (b) a proposal for a decision closing the accounts of all the Community's revenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities; (c) a motion for a resolution containing the comments accompanying the discharge decision including both an assessment of the Commission' s budgetary management over the financial year and observations relating to the implementation of expenditure for the future; (c) a motion for a resolution containing comments accompanying the proposal for a decision referred to in subparagraph (a) including both an assessment of the Commission's budgetary management over the financial year and observations relating to the implementation of expenditure for the future; (d) an explanatory statement. Deleted (e) as an annex, a list of the documents received from the Commission and those requested but not received; (f) the opinions of the committees concerned; 2. If the committee responsible proposes postponing the discharge decision, the relevant motion for a resolution shall also set out, inter alia: - the reasons for postponement, - the further action that the Commission is expected to take and deadlines for doing so, - the documents that are required for Parliament to make an informed decision. Justification This amendment takes account of the Committee on Budgetary Control's proposal that there should no longer be a separate explanatory statement and its suggestions concerning the elements that should appear in the motion for a resolution if the discharge decision is postponed. Amendment 5 Annex V Article 4 Postponement of discharge 1. The committee responsible may table a motion for a resolution postponing the discharge decision. This motion shall set out the reasons for postponement. Deleted 2. Such a motion shall be included on the agenda of the next part-session following its tabling. Justification There is no longer any need for a separate article on postponement of discharge as this matter is now dealt with in Article 3(a) of Annex V (see Amendment 4). Amendment 6 Annex V Article 5 Consideration in Parliament Consideration and vote in Parliament 1. Any motion for a resolution on the discharge shall be included on the agenda of the first part-session following its tabling. 1. Any report by the committee responsible concerning the discharge shall be included on the agenda of the first part-session following its tabling. 2. Only the motion for a resolution containing the comments accompanying the proposals for a decision or postponing the discharge decision may be the subject of amendments in Parliament 2. Amendments shall be admissible only to the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to Article 3(1)(c). 3. Adoption of the report in Parliament shall follow the order of Article 3. 3. Unless otherwise stipulated in the following article, the