efficient execution of orders in accordance with objective criteria , taking into account the nature of the users of the system and the type of instruments traded on it. The requirements of the competent authority of the home Member State of the regulated market shall be applicable ; e) to have effective arrangements to facilitate the efficient and timely finalisation of the transactions executed under its rules and systems. Article 38 Admission of financial instruments to trading 1. Member States shall require that regulated markets have , or are subject to, clear and transparent rules regarding the admission of financial instruments to trading. Member States shall require those rules to be approved by the competent authority, taking into account all implementing measures adopted pursuant to paragraph 6. Those rules shall ensure that any financial instruments admitted to trading in a regulated market are capable of being traded in a fair, orderly and efficient manner and, in the case of transferable securities, are freely negotiable . 2. In the case of derivatives, the rules shall ensure in particular that the design of the derivative contract allows for orderly pricing both in the derivative and in the underlying market and for effective and orderly settlement. 3. In addition to the obligations set out in paragraphs 1 and 2, Member States shall require a regulated market that admits transferable securities to trading to establish and maintain effective arrangements to verify that issuers of such transferable securities being considered for admission to trading comply with their obligations under Community law in respect of initial, ongoing and ad hoc financial disclosure. The competent authority shall ensure that a regulated market that admits transferable securities to trading establishes arrangements which facilitate its members or participants in obtaining access to information which has been made public under Community law by issuers of such transferable securities under Community law in respect of initial, ongoing or ad hoc financial disclosure . 4. Member States shall ensure that regulated markets have established the necessary arrangements to review regularly the compliance with the admission requirements of the financial instruments which they admit to trading. 5. Member States shall provide that once a transferable security issued in their territory has been admitted to trading on a regulated market, it can subsequently be admitted to trading on other regulated markets without the consent of the issuer in compliance with Article 4 of Directive 2003/.../EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of ......[on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading] 1 OJ L .. . The issuer shall be informed by the operator of the regulated market of the fact that its securities are traded on that regulated market. The issuer shall not be subject to any obligation to provide information required under paragraph 3 directly to any regulated market which has admitted the issuer's securities to trading without its consent. The operator of the regulated market shall also inform the competent authority of the home Member State that securities have been admitted to trading