service" means the handling and/or processing of food and its storage at the point of sale or delivery to the final consumer, and includes mass catering operations, factory canteens, institutional catering, restaurants and other similar food service operations; Amendment 38 Article 3, point 8 8. "placing on the market" means the holding of food or feed for the purpose of sale, including offering for sale or any other form of transfer, whether free of charge or not, to third parties, and the sale and other forms of transfer themselves; 8. "placing on the market" means the placing in circulation or holding of food or feed products for the purpose of sale, including offering for sale or any other form of transfer, whether free of charge or not, to third parties, and the distribution, sale and other forms of transfer themselves; Amendment 39 Article 3, point 9 9. "official control" means any inspection, verification audit, sampling, laboratory examination or analysis or other means of performing controls by the competent authority of the Member States or their agents or by the services of the Commission with a view to ensuring compliance with food law and to protecting human health and consumer interests; 9. "official control" means any inspection, verification audit, sampling, laboratory examination or analysis or other means of performing controls by the competent authority of the Member States or their agents or by the services of the Commission with a view to ensuring compliance with food law and to protecting human and animal health and consumer interests; Amendment 40 Article 3, point 13 13. "risk management" means the process, distinct from risk assessment, of weighing policy alternatives in consultation with interested parties, considering risk assessment and other legitimate factors, and, if need be, selecting appropriate prevention and control options; 13. "risk management" means the process, following on from risk assessment, and after consideraing the scientific conclusions drawn from the process of risk assessment, of weighing policy alternatives in consultation with interested parties, and selecting appropriate prevention and control options; Amendment 41 Article 3, point 16 16. "traceability" means the ability to trace a food, feed, food-producing animal or ingredient, through all stages of production distribution; 16. "traceability" means the ability to trace a food, feed product , food-producing animal or ingredient, through all stages of production distribution, including retail sale, with the aim of ensuring food safety; Amendment 42 Article 3, point 17 17. "all stages of production and distribution" means all stages from and including the primary production of a food, up to and including its sale or supply to the final consumer and, where relevant to food safety, the production, manufacture and distribution of feed; 17. "all stages of production , processing and distribution" means all stages from and including the primary production of a food, up to and including its storage, transport, sale or supply to the final consumer and, where relevant to food safety, the production, manufacture , storage, transport and distribution of feed products ; Amendment 43 Article 3, point 18 18. "unfit for human consumption or contaminated