the three-dimensional machine. The technical service shall also consider the possibility to use electric wheelchair(s), the mass of which, including the user, is assumed to be 250 kg. Any limitation in the passenger capacity resulting from the use of electric wheelchair(s) shall be recorded in the type-approval certificate and an appropriate language thereto shall be included in the certificate of conformity. W 9 No new test shall be required on the modified vehicle on condition that the front part of the chassis located in front of the R point of the driver is not affected by the conversion of the vehicle and no part of the supplementary restraint system (air-bag(s)) has been removed or deactivated. W 10 No new test shall be required on the modified vehicle on condition that the side reinforcements have not been altered and no part of the supplementary restraint system (side air-bag(s)) has been removed or deactivated. Justification The amendment provides for guidance for type-approving vehicles constructed or converted for the purposes of transporting wheel-chair users seated in their own wheel-chairs. This amendment completes the introduction of the new Appendix 2 a to Annex XI. Amendment 44 Annex XIX, row 6 Council common position Incomplete and complete vehicles of category M 2 , M 3 18 months after entry into force 18 months after entry into force 30 months after entry into force Amendment by Parliament Incomplete and complete vehicles of category M 2 , M 3 18 months after entry into force 18 months after entry into force 1 36 months after entry into force 1 For the purposes of the application of Article 45(3a), this date is postponed by 12 months. Amendment 45 Annex XIX, row 9 Council common position Completed vehicles of category M 2 , M 3 18 months after entry into force 36 months after entry into force 60 months after entry into force Amendment by Parliament Completed vehicles of category M 2 , M 3 18 months after entry into force 30 months after entry into force 1 48 months after entry into force 1 For the purposes of the application of Article 45(3a), this date is postponed by 12 months. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The proposal is a Framework Directive bringing together a large number of individual Type-approvals - hence the extent of the technical annexes - and represents an important advance in the completion of the Single Market. Viewed in a historical context, it is surprising that - with such an extensive level of harmonised legislation - the Internal Market still does not have a fully integrated type-approval procedure that would allow manufacturers of all types of vehicles and trailers to take full advantage of it. While passenger cars have benefited from a single type approval for many years, this proposal firstly brings about a full harmonization of the test certification approval procedures. The proposal also brings the bus directive fully into the type approval procedure, resulting in improved safety standards for buses, and makes provisions for incorporating the relevant UNECE regulations within the overall Type-Approval procedure. In Parliament's First Reading,