which the implementation of these regulations should be improved. The main results and proposed actions of this workshop are summarised also in the Commission's Communication. It should be noted that ICES provides regular scientific assessment concerning incidental catches of small cetaceans in EU fisheries. The latest ICES overview on this issue is available in ICES Advice 2009, Book 1. In the case of seabirds and concerning fishing operations beyond EU waters, the Commission has been consistently promoting the adoption of measures for the protection of seabirds in various Regional Fisheries Management Organisations (RFMOs). Most of these measures have already been transposed into Community law. It is the Commission's intention to continue promoting the adoption of additional measures or the improvement of current measures for the protection of seabirds within RFMOs in order to address problems caused by different kinds of fishing gear. The Commission on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) adopted a measure in order to minimise the incidental mortality of seabirds and marine mammals in the course of trawl fishing in the Convention Area. This measure has been transposed into Community law by Council Regulation (EC) No 600/2004 of 22 March 2004. The European Community is also a party to the Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Program (AIDCP), a sister organisation to the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (IATTC) concerned with fisheries where dolphins are taken as incidental by-catch in tuna fisheries under the oversight of IATTC. Concerning by-catches of seabirds in EU waters, there is currently no complete overview of the size and impact of the problem. Some data is available concerning the long line fishery in the Mediterranean Sea and the North East Atlantic, which indicates that by-catches of seabirds in this fishery may be substantial. The database for other fishing methods and areas is unfortunately considerably poorer. In order to tackle this unsatisfactory situation the Commission plans to address this issue at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of 19 and 20 November 2009. The Commission is committed to examine the problem of seabird by-catches more thoroughly and to collect the necessary amount of representative data, which will help to understand better the extent of the problem and to tackle it more effectively. Improved data collection is necessary in particular in order to identify the main areas affected and determine the main type of fisheries responsible for seabirds' mortality. This kind of information will make it possible to prepare an Action Plan to reduce incidental catches of seabirds in fishing gears, which the Commission intends to present in due course. Finally, the Commission would like to recall that marine mammals and seabirds are also protected by the Habitats Council Directive 92/43/EEC on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora, OJ L 206, 22.7.1992. and Birds Council Directive 79/409/EEC on the conservation of wild birds, OJ L 103, 25.4.1979. Directives. Under this legislation, Member States are required to introduce measures under their national jurisdiction to ensure the conservation of these species and their natural habitats.