with the principles laid down in point 2.1 and comparable to those of the other institutions in order to guarantee an equivalent level of protection of the sensitive information concerned. C. Implementation of the Interinstitutional Agreement governing Parliament access to sensitive information in the sphere of security and defence policy European Parliament decision of 23 October 2002 on the implementation of the Interinstitutional Agreement governing European Parliament access to sensitive Council information in the sphere of security and defence policy OJ C 298, 30.11.2002, p. 4. THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, having regard to Article 9, and in particular paragraphs 6 and 7 thereof, of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. , having regard to point 1 of Annex VII, part A of its Rules of Procedure, having regard to Article 20 of the Bureau Decision of 28 November 2001 on public access to Parliament documents OJ C 374, 29.12.2001, p. 1. , having regard to the Interinstitutional Agreement between the European Parliament and the Council on European Parliament access to sensitive Council information in the sphere of security and defence policy, having regard to the Bureau proposal, having regard to the specific nature and the particularly sensitive substance of some highly confidential items of information in the sphere of security and defence policy, whereas, in accordance with the provisions agreed between the institutions, the Council is required to make information about sensitive documents available to Parliament, whereas the Members of the European Parliament who sit on the special committee set up by the Interinstitutional Agreement must be cleared for access to sensitive information in accordance with the ‘need-to-know’ principle, having regard to the need to lay down specific arrangements for receiving, dealing with and safeguarding sensitive information forwarded by the Council, Member States, third States or international organisations, HAS DECIDED: Article 1 This Decision adopts the additional measures required to implement the Interinstitutional Agreement governing European Parliament access to sensitive Council information in the sphere of security and defence policy. Article 2 Parliament’s requests for access to sensitive Council information shall be dealt with by the latter in a manner consistent with its relevant rules. If the documents requested have been drawn up by other institutions, Member States, third countries or international organisations, they shall be forwarded only with the agreement of the institutions, States or organisations concerned. Article 3 The President of Parliament shall be responsible for the implementation of the Interinstitutional Agreement within the Institution. In that connection, he/she shall take all the measures required to guarantee that information received directly from the President of the Council or the Secretary-General/High Representative, or information obtained in the course of the consultation of sensitive documents on the Council’s premises, is dealt with in a confidential manner. Article 4 When the President of Parliament or the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy asks the Council Presidency or the Secretary-General/High Representative