WRITTEN QUESTION E-5645/06 by Georgios Karatzaferis (IND/DEM) to the Commission (21 December 2006) Subject: Illegal system of taxation on second-hand motor vehicles in Greece In early 2006, the Commission announced that it was referring Greece to the European Court of Justice for infringement of Article 95 of the EC Treaty and the case-law of the ECJ, as established in Case C‑393/98 ( Gomes Valente ), for levying illegal registration duties on imported second-hand motor vehicles. Can the Commission confirm that the Court ruled in Case C‑393/98 of 22 February 2001 that it is prohibited to tax imported second-hand vehicles more than the residual tax incorporated in the price of similar second-hand vehicles already registered in the national territory (registration duty is waived in the case of ‘national’ second-hand vehicles)? Is the Commission aware that, at the present time, five whole years since the Court's judgment, the registration duty in Greece on an imported second-hand vehicle, for example one dating from 1994 with an engine capacity over 2000 cm3, which therefore falls within the scope of environmental Directive 91/441/EEC OJ L 242, 30.8.1991, p. 1 . , is 334 % (!) of its value (arbitrarily determined by the Greek customs authorities, who refuse to recognise the invoice issued by the country from which the vehicle is imported), whereas it should be 0 % since registration duty is waived in its entirety for equivalent vehicles which are more than 10 years old and already in the national territory? By continuing to apply this burdensome system to imported vehicles — despite the fact that the Court's case-law is unequivocal — is Greece exploiting its own citizens or not? Has the Greek Government adopted a responsible and serious position by trying to gain time through the ECJ, breaking its own pre-election promises to respect citizens' economic rights and freedom of choice? Does the Commission agree that the Greek customs authorities should publish the prices of vehicles so that citizens know in advance the final cost they will incur? Is Greece in breach or not of the fundamental principle of freedom of movement of goods in the EU? Can Greek citizens claim the reimbursement of unlawful registration duties, with the Commission's support, given that the Commission obviously bears responsibility for the significant delay in launching the infringement procedure against Greece in the ECJ, proceedings which could have been initiated within a period of 12 months or less (e.g. the ‘basic shareholder’ case) from the publication of the judgment in Case C‑393/98?