of productive capital; 8. Underscores the need to sustain sufficient and stable private financial flows to developing countries with economies in transition; 9. Considers liberalising capital flows in an orderly process to be consistent with development objectives; 10. Urges business to take into account not only the economic and financial but also the social, gender equity, educational, health and environmental implications of their undertakings; 11. Stresses the importance of adequate investment in the ICT sector, the use of which can have an important effect in the fight against poverty in sectors such as education, health, the environment, rural development and tourism; 12. Believes that trade is the single most important external source of development financing, and that trade barriers, subsidies and other trade-distorting measures, particularly in sectors of special export interest to developing countries, including agriculture, must be eliminated; 13. Considers official development assistance as a complement to other sources of financing for development, especially in those countries with the least capacity to attract private direct investment; 14. Supports development frameworks initiated at the regional level, such as the New Economic Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) and similar efforts in other regions; 15. Considers micro-finance and credit for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, including in rural areas, particularly for women, to be important for enhancing the social and economic impact of the financial sector; 16. Recognises the urgent need to enhance the coherence and governance of the international monetary, financial and trading system; 17. Calls for developing countries to play a more important role in international dialogues and decision-making processes and effectively participate in the ongoing reform of the international financial architecture; 18. Welcomes the WTO's decision to place the needs and interests of developing countries at the heart of the WTO work programme and supports the accession of developing countries, particularly the LDCs, that apply for WTO membership; 19. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the Member States, the IMF, the World Bank and the United Nations Secretariat.