which ↓ ↓ 50 % per person 50 % in proportion to the individual yearly salary in relation to the yearly salary of all entitled employees (who have been with the firm for at least a year ) ↓ social considerations ↓ performance-related considerations Use by the employee: a) opts for payment in cash b) opts for a share of capital: the employee becomes: i) a shareholder through forms of joint ownership ii) a creditor, i.e. a lender to the enterprise = equity capital = outside capital iii) It is important that employees with a stake in the equity in future also share in the distribution of the remaining profit which goes into capital (in relation to their share of the equity, e.g. as dormant partners); they also have a claim to the risk premium. Employees with a stake in the outside capital of the enterprise (lenders) receive interest at a higher rate than the country’s usual savings interest rate; the enterprise pays less than the interest charged for long-term outside capital (thus the bank margin is divided between the enterprise and participating employees). There is no direct liability or participation in a loss; this is limited to setting the loss against profits that have already been registered or future profits. II. Employee share ownership in an SME: i) On the assumption that this is a general partnership (limited partnership), as mentioned above, the legal basis is a supplementary company agreement and a supplementary partnership agreement contract for the dormant partnership. In both cases the principle of a voluntary agreement also applies. ii) Profits that can be distributed and paid out to employees: ↓ ↓ 10 % cash 90 % in company shares for the employees First in the form of a loan from the participating employees to the enterprise (with a known numerical value – no valuation problem); ↓ after three years it can be converted to an ownership certificate (European legal concept ‘employee participation capital’ or dormant shareholding), in some circumstances there may be a valuation problem here. For employees who leave, they or their heirs are entitled to payment or repayment in relation to the shareholding. According to the company agreement, repayment must begin after five years at the latest and must be paid in no more than four annual instalments. The statutes or rules of procedure of the partnership committee contain particular rules e.g. to cover death of the shareholding employee, if the employee leaves or is dismissed and possibly also for immediate dismissal or redundancy. iii) Agreement by a partnership committee or participation council: this consists of five representatives of the shareholders and five of the employees. The employees’ representatives are elected, three by the shareholding employees (e.g. meeting of dormant partner employees) and two by the works council. The partnership committee administers the participation model (see II ii) and makes proposals for changes to the profit distribution key between labour and capital and among the employees (e.g. distribution according to performance, evaluating work according to age, department, family situation). In certain circumstances it proposes instead of