the market to function properly ", as this is in the interests of both business and consumers. She compared her future role to that of a referee who should be impartial but also " know the game inside out ". As a guarantee of her impartiality, she has drawn up a code of conduct in agreement with Commission president-designate Barroso. The Commissioner-designate also stressed her commitment to work closely and on a regular basis with the European Parliament, stating that "a relationship based on reciprocal trust and frank dialogue between parliament and executive is essential". Mrs Kroes said that her wide range of experience had comprised " a lot of successes but a lot of disappointments too " and that she had learned more from her failures than her successes. The internal market, Mrs Kroes stated, still faces challenges. " We need more growth, higher rates of employment, less social exclusion, better protection of the environment ", she explained. Competition policy can make a key contribution to the reinvigoration of the Lisbon process, to boost the economy and deliver sustainable economic growth. Going into specifics, Mrs Kroes argued that the Commission should target anti-competitive practices which do the most harm to the European economy and that markets should be monitored better. In order to create the right conditions for enhancing competitiveness, legislation should be screened to identify restrictive measures which have an unnecessarily harmful impact. Regarding state-aid control, she said that " competition rules must be more responsive to specific market failures which harm the cohesion of the EU and society ." Imaginative solutions could help deliver desirable results in terms of innovation, balanced regional development and more research. On public services, the Commissioner-designate said that a " sensitive liberalisation policy can deliver cheaper, better quality, more innovative and responsive services " as a complement to the standards guaranteed under public service obligations. And she promised to ensure that measures in the competition field would be properly explained to the wider public. Conflicts of interest? Replying to questions by Jonathan EVANS (EPP-ED, UK) and Alexander RADWAN (EPP-ED, DE) about the conclusions she would draw from a negative opinion by the EP committee, Mrs Kroes said that if she thought she did not fit into the team, she would have a serious talk with President-designate Barroso. However, for her, what she had committed herself to doing in the future was more important than what she had done in the past. As a guarantee she had renounced all her interests and cut her ties with business for good. Moreover, she had decided on a "cooling down" period of one year, during which she would keep a general distance from sectors in which she had been involved. And for the whole of her term of office she would leave to a fellow Commissioner any investigations into particular companies in which she had been involved during the period concerned. In reply to a question by Pervenche BERÈS (PES, FR) as to whether she saw herself as the best person, with the necessary authority and legitimacy, to