Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (6 April 2011) As in other industrial sectors, the Commission follows closely the competitiveness of the defence industry and all other related developments. Such developments include significant cuts to national defence budgets, as well as initiatives — driven by Member States — on defence cooperation and, in particular, on pooling and sharing of military capabilities. While some forms of cooperation (notably among Nordic States) have a long history, other initiatives have only recently been gaining momentum. National decisions to scale down defence budgets and intensify cooperation among Member States already have an impact on the demand side within the EU and will therefore also produce, in the medium to long term, implications on the supply side of defence equipment. Past changes in the political and budgetary context of the defence sector, such as those which occurred in the 1990s, had significant industrial implications and brought about some consolidation of the industrial base, leading as a result to often stronger and more competitive companies. However, since most of the significant developments in the defence field to which the Honourable Member is referring are very recent and are still unfolding, their full industrial implications are still largely unclear. Given the specificities and sensitivities of the defence sector, drawing any conclusion on the extent and the nature of such implications would be premature at the moment. As highlighted in two Communications adopted in 2003 and 2007 Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions ‘European Defence — Industrial and Market Issues. Towards an EU Defence Equipment Policy’, COM(2003)113 final; Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, ‘A Strategy for a stronger and more competitive European defence industry’, COM(2007)764 final. , consolidation of the industry at European level could represent an important contributing factor to achieving a strong and competitive European Defence Technological and Industrial Base (EDTIB). While decisions on consolidation and restructuring remain with industry itself, the Commission is committed to further improving the regulatory framework of the European defence market. Two Directives adopted in 2009 Directive 2009/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 May 2009 simplifying terms and conditions of transfers of defence-related products within the Community; Directive 2009/81/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 on the coordination of procedures for the award of certain works contracts, supply contracts and service contracts by contracting authorities or entities in the fields of defence and security, and amending Directives 2004/17/EC and 2004/18/EC. , which will be transposed into national legislation by summer 2011, should — if properly implemented — lead to increased transparency, openness and competitiveness in the defence market, thereby facilitating the consolidation of the supply side. Given the current uncertainties and rapid developments, further initiatives from the Commission would at the moment be premature. However, this may change when the industrial implications of the national