WRITTEN QUESTION E-1597/10 by Diogo Feio (PPE) to the Commission (17 March 2010) Subject: European External Action Service — criticism of alleged UK predominance and European world languages The 2 March 2010 edition of Spiegel Online International reported alleged criticism of UK predominance in the top posts of the new European External Action Service. The same report, referring back to an article from the UK newspaper The Guardian , claimed that the French and German diplomatic corps were worried about the awarding of various high-profile posts in the new Service to UK diplomats. Allegedly, there is even a German Foreign Ministry document complaining about the excessive UK presence, and stating that this disproportionate influence should be prevented. When asked, the German Ministry refused to confirm the existence of such a document, but did state that if the new Service is to function properly, it needs proportionate representation of the Member States on a geographical basis. 1. Is the High Representative aware of these facts? What are her comments? 2. Does the High Representative think that proportionate representation on a geographical basis should be the main criterion when appointing staff to the European External Action Service? Or does she think that these appointments should be made in keeping with the most objective possible criteria regarding individual merit? How does she propose to combine these two criteria? 3. How does the High Representative intend to prevent any potential predominance of any one Member State when she sets up and leads the European External Action Service? What mechanisms does she intend to build into its modus operandi so as to avoid this risk? 4. I would ask, once again, how the High Representative intends to capitalise on the strategic importance of European World Languages as a communication vehicle. Their importance from that point of view has already been recognised by Parliament and the Commission in the resolution of 15 November 2006 and the communication of 18 September 2008, respectively. Does she agree that these European languages are a particularly suitable means of entering into direct contact with large parts of the world? Does she intend to include a reference to these languages in the proposals she is going to be submitting with regard to the working of her services, and will she ensure that the staff of the European External Action Service learn these languages and that they are used as working languages?