the key elements for improving the follow-up of application is the need to increase the Member States' awareness of their duties and obligations when complying with the common rules. It is first and foremost at the national level that the key control mechanisms have to be implemented Some Members States have developed better practices that others in the field of implementation. The UK, in the last years, is one of the most dedicated to improve those good administrative and legislative practices. See, for instance, the "Transposition guide: how to implement European directives effectively" published by the Cabinet Office of "Lost in Translation? Responding to challenges of European Law" published by the National Audit Office. . However, the Commission also needs to diversify its methods with a view to ensuring speedier solutions and preventing infringements. Mrs MINOR explained how the day-to-day application of Community law is done: " it lies in the hands of national officials. In some cases, as in the supervision of banking and insurance legislation, there is a clearly identified central authority, even sometimes an individual, with whom the ultimate responsibility lies. But in other cases, such as public procurement, or the field of recognition of diplomas, there are a myriad of national officials who take decisions at national, regional, local and individual level, and it is difficult for the Commission to supervise or audit those individual decisions. The Commission relies upon the functioning of the system or the sector as a whole in order to determine whether there is the need for corrective action" . The Commission currently acquires such information through complaints and petitions. This is perhaps a slightly reactive attitude, inasmuch as the Commission, on account of its lack of resources, can only rely passively on the information it receives and in this regard it attaches the greatest priority to those issues which arrive by way of petitions and complaints. Other sources of information are also used: the Commission tries to establish regular contact with the stakeholders in a particular sector or simply tries to monitor press developments. The SOLVIT SOLVIT has been working since July 2002 and is an on-line problem solving network in which EU Member States work together to solve without legal proceedings problems caused by the misapplication of Internal Market law by public authorities. There is a SOLVIT centre in every EU Member State (as well as in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein) helping with handling complaints from both citizens and businesses. They are part of the national administration and are committed to providing solutions to problems within ten weeks. Using SOLVIT is free of charge. The SOLVIT network, operated by the Member States, is coordinated by the Commission who provides database facilities and may help to speed up the resolution of problems. The Commission also passes formal complaints it receives on to SOLVIT if there is a good chance that the problem could be solved without legal action. See: http://ec.europa.eu/solvit/site/index_en.htm mechanism is also used In its resolution on the Commission's 21st and 22nd Annual reports on monitoring the application of Community law (P6(2006)202),