under the first subparagraph, firm bid and offer prices in shares which it has admitted to trading and which are communicated to it by investment firms pursuant to Article 25. 2. Member States shall provide that the competent authorities may waive the obligation for regulated markets to make public the information referred to in paragraph 1 in respect of quotes, orders and other indications of interest that are large in scale compared with normal market size for the share or type of share in question. 3. In order to ensure the consistent application of paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2) adopt implementing measures as regards: a) the range of bid and offers or designated market-maker quotes, and the depth of trading interest at those prices, to be made public; b) the types of order or market-maker quote to be made public; c) the size or type of transactions for which pre-trade disclosure may be waived under paragraph 2; d) the applicability of paragraphs 1 and 2 to trading methods operated by regulated markets which conclude transactions under their rules by reference to prices established outside the rules and systems of the regulated market or by periodic auction; e) appropriate arrangements for making the information public on a reasonable commercial basis. Article 43 Post-trade transparency requirements for regulated markets 1. Member States shall require regulated markets to make public the price, volume and time of the transactions executed under their rules and systems in respect of shares admitted to trading. Member States shall require details of all such transactions to be made public, on a reasonable commercial basis and as close to real-time as possible. Member States shall also require any regulated market to make public, through the arrangements employed for making public the information required under the first subparagraph, details of transactions in shares which it has admitted to trading and which have been reported to it by investment firms pursuant to Article 26. 2. Member States shall provide that the competent authority may authorise regulated markets to provide for deferred publication of the details of transactions that are large in scale compared with the normal market size for that share or that class of shares. The competent authority must give prior approval to proposed arrangements for deferred trade-publication, and ensure that these arrangements are clearly disclosed to market participants and the investing public. 3. In order to provide for the efficient and orderly functioning of financial markets, and to ensure the consistent application of paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2) adopt implementing measures in respect of: a) the scope and content of the information to be made available to the public; b) the conditions under which a regulated market may provide for deferred publication of trades and the sizes of transaction or types of share for which deferred publication is allowed; c) appropriate arrangements for making the information public on a reasonable commercial basis. Article 44 Provisions regarding clearing