draft decision 1. Notes the progress achieved by the Commission towards the elimination of reconciliation requirements for EU issuers in third countries; acknowledges that steps have been taken towards the recognition of US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (US GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU; 2. Takes the view that third-country Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (third-country GAAP) should be considered equivalent to IFRS as adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 in the event that investors are able to make similar decisions irrespective of whether they are provided with financial statements in accordance with IFRS or on third-country GAAP and in the event that audit assurance and enforcement at entity level are sufficient for investors to rely on; 3. Considers that regulators should maintain an active dialogue with their international counterparts regarding the application and consistent enforcement of IFRS and enhance cooperation and information-sharing; 4. Notes that IFRS that are issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) provide a solid basis for the regulators to work towards the convergence of accounting standards globally; takes the view that the worldwide application of international accounting standards could improve the transparency and comparability of financial statements, thus bringing substantial benefits to companies and investors; 5. Believes that bringing about the convergence of accounting standards is an important task, but underlines that the ultimate goal must be for each jurisdiction to adopt IFRS whilst respecting its own democratic and legal framework; 6. Welcomes Regulation (EC) No 1569/2007, which provides for the definition of equivalence and establishes a mechanism for determining the equivalence of third-country GAAP; underlines that Regulation (EC) No 1569/2007 requires that the Commission decision permit Community issuers to use IFRS adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 in the third country concerned; 7. Notes that the US recognises only financial statements prepared under IFRS as issued by the IASB; acknowledges, however, that the US allows a short transition period during which financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted under Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 are also accepted without reconciliation requirements; 8. Emphasises that certain third countries have not yet clearly and publicly stated when IFRS will be applied to their domestic issuers; 9. Considers that the draft Commission regulation and the draft Commission decision must be consistent with the conditions provided for in Regulation (EC) No 1569/2007 and this resolution; 10. Welcomes the roadmaps recently presented by certain third countries concerning a switch to IFRS; calls on the Commission to monitor the progress made with the implementation of those roadmaps with a view to abolishing recognition of equivalence when predetermined changeover dates are reached; 11. Notes that proposals have been made to develop governance by the IASB; 12. Notes the Commission report of 22 April 2008 on progress towards the elimination of reconciliation requirements and the efforts of accounting standard setters in third countries to converge with IFRS; 13. Proposes to modify the draft Commission regulation as follows: Text proposed by the Commission Modification Modification 1 Draft regulation – amending act Recital 3 (3) In order to assess