the final budget was reduced by 50% ." The Commission concludes that " no written review of the study was carried out " but it claims that it can confirm that " the officials then responsible for the study, while not checking all the work the consultants did in all the individual Member States, nevertheless played an active role in monitoring the production of the study ". Also in WE 19, the Commission states that " it is clear that the UK coverage of the report is one of the sounder aspects of the study ". In H8, Commissioner MCCREEVY explains how the Commission has made available to the EQUI committee the study reports and the Commission’s internal papers “which show clearly the problems encountered. Those papers also show the considerable efforts of Commission officials to achieve value for money and obtain the best possible result." In WE-Conf 11, we find possible proof of the overall poor quality of the Wilde Sapte study and the fact that the Commission tried its best to obtain changes and improvements to the text. This raises the question of the general quality and management of the Commission's procurement procedures for these kinds of external studies at the time and whether these practices have improved since then. II.2.3. Other selected written and oral evidence on transposition From other written and oral evidence, it is surprising to note how few times the directives and the issue of correct/incorrect transposition is mentioned. Witnesses and other experts (Penrose, Baird) understandably always make reference to UK law and UK regulatory practice. It is therefore difficult to separate what is clearly an issue purely related to transposition from matters relating to supervision and regulation of ELAS. The emphasis on the latter is dealt with in much more detail in Part III on regulatory practice. In order to structure the investigation, the different pieces of evidence are placed - where possible - under headings which list each of the key articles of the 3LD. If no specific link is found to an article, the evidence is placed under a ‘general themes’ heading: · General themes · Article 8 - Prudential supervision · Article 10 – Supervisory powers & accounting returns · Article 18 – Technical provisions · Article 25 – Solvency margin · Article 28 – General good · Article 31 – Information to policyholders General themes 1. The unsatisfactory implementation and execution of the 2LD and the 3LD gave rise directly to the weakness of regulation of ELAS Mr. Tom LAKE, from the Equitable Members' Action Group (EMAG), claims that " the implementation and execution of the 2LD and the 3LD was unsatisfactory and that this directly affected the quality of the regulatory oversight of ELAS " (H1). He argues that the aim of these directives - the adequate protection of policyholders - was not achieved by UK regulation of ELAS. 2. Grave doubts that any of the 3 EC life directives were successfully transposed Mr. JOSEPHS, in H2, declares that he and his association (Investors Association) " have grave doubts as