Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (24 June 2009) 1. In the context of the developing European Research Area, the Commission is undertaking several initiatives to increase knowledge and understanding of research policies in the Member States. Thus, in the field of Social Sciences and Humanities, a study was completed in 2006 on the topic of ‘R & D [Research and Development] Indicators and Data for Social Sciences and Humanities’ (Contract No. SDPF — CT — 2005 00001) (Directorate-General for Research, Directorate for Social Sciences and Humanities). The study demonstrated the enormous challenge of data collection and comparability in research in social sciences and humanities, since classification by field of Science is unfortunately not followed systematically by the Member States. This concerned not only Greece, for which data were not available, but also other countries. The latest available comparative data on R & D expenditure by field of science are included in the Eurostat edition of 2008 (Science, Technology and Innovation in Europe, ISSN 1830-754X, 2008, p.38), which includes a breakdown into Agriculture, Engineering and Technology, Medical Sciences, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences and Humanities. The Honourable Member will find this information attached in Annex, which is sent directly to the Honourable Member and to the Parliament's Secretariat. This includes no values for Greece. Data regarding Social Sciences and Humanities is also lacking for France and the Netherlands; however the absence of such data does not necessarily mean that there is no funding. 2. It is not within the competence of the Commission to advise or establish rules for Member States on funding of national scientific and research bodies. The Commission nevertheless encourages the coordinated development of representative and reliable data on changing attitudes, social values and behaviour of European citizens in order to inform social policy at the national and European levels. 3. The European Social Survey (ESS) is not an initiative of the European institutions, however the Commission provides significant co‑financing for its coordination and for the efforts to improve access of researchers to the data that the survey produces. Since the European Science Foundation initiated the ESS in 1998, it has grown to cover most Member States (with the exception of Latvia, Lithuania and Malta) plus associated countries, a number of accession and candidate countries and Russia. 30 countries were involved in the most recent (4 th ) survey round in 2008, with the National Centre for Social Research (EKKE) carrying out fieldwork in Greece. It would not be within the competence of the Commission to make recommendations to the Greek Government regarding its participation in ESS. However, the Commission notes that Greece is one of the 19 countries whose research councils or ministries have signed statements of commitment to support the upgrade of the ESS in the form of the recently adopted legal form of a European Research Infrastructure Consortium (ERIC). The ESS upgrade was identified in 2008 by the European Strategy Forum for Research Infrastructures (ESFRI) as one of 44 major research infrastructures that are a priority at European level.