be transferred. 2. Member States shall ensure that the adequacy of the level of protection afforded by a third country or international body shall be assessed in the light of all the circumstances for each transfer or category of transfers. In particular, the assessment shall result from an examination of the following elements: the type of data, the purposes and duration of processing for which the data are transferred, the country of origin and the country of final destination, the general and sectoral rules of law applicable in the third country or body in question, the professional and security rules which are applicable there, as well as the existence of sufficient safeguards put in place by the recipient of the transfer. 3. The Member States and the Commission shall inform each other of cases where they consider that a third country or an international body does not ensure an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2. 4. Where, under the procedure provided for in Article 16, it is established that a third country or international body does not ensure an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2, Member States shall take the measures necessary to prevent any transfer of personal data to the third country or international body in question. 5. In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 16, it may be established that a third country or international body ensures an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2, by reason of its domestic law or of the international commitments it has entered into, for the protection of the private lives and basic freedoms and rights of individuals. 6. Exceptionally, personal data received from the competent authority of another Member State may be further transferred to competent authorities of third countries or to international bodies in or by which an adequate level of data protection is not ensured if absolutely necessary in order to safeguard the essential interests of a Member State or for the prevention of imminent serious danger threatening public security or a specific person or persons. Amendment 41 Article 16 Article 16 deleted Committee 1. Where reference is made to this Article, the Commission shall be assisted by a Committee composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by the representative of the Commission. 2. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure on a proposal made by the Chair on the basis of standard rules of procedure which have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. The representative of the Commission shall submit to the committee a draft of the measures to be taken. The Committee shall deliver its opinion on the draft within a time limit which the chairperson may lay down according to the urgency of the matter. The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 205(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission. The votes of