N. whereas the UN mandated a multidimensional force in Chad in 2006; since then, no progress has been achieved in the deployment of this force, despite the increasing and serious protection needs of civilians, O. whereas the International Criminal Court (ICC) opened an investigation into crimes in Darfur in 2005 and issued arrest warrants on 2 May 2007 against Ahmad Muhammad Harun and Ali Kushayb, as suspects in a total of 51 counts of war crimes and crimes against humanity, including the murder, rape, torture and persecution of civilians in Darfur, P. whereas on 10 May 2007 China appointed Liu Giujin as Special Envoy for Darfur; whereas China announced its willingness to send engineers to the area to support UN-backed peacekeepers, following China's support for an AU/UN hybrid force in late 2006; whereas China hosts the Olympic Games in 2008, is a privileged commercial partner of Sudan and as a permanent member of the UNSC holds a special responsibility for pursuing peace in Darfur, Q. whereas the latest UN Environment Programme report points to the spread of deserts by an average of 100 km in the last forty years, a loss of almost 12% of forest cover in fifteen years and overgrazing of fragile soil in Sudan, R. whereas oil revenues have permitted the national budget to increase from $900 million in 1999 to over $2.5 billion in 2003 and to a projected $11.7 billion in 2007, S. whereas the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) provides for elections to take place in 2009, 1. Deplores the human rights situation in Darfur, where the conflict has directly affected more than four and a half million people and more than three million people depend on food aid; 2. Calls on the UN to act in line with its "Responsibility to Protect", basing its action on the failure of the Government of Sudan (GoS) to protect its population in Darfur from war crimes and crimes against humanity, and also its failure to provide humanitarian assistance to its population; 3. Calls on the Member States, the Council and the Commission to assume their responsibilities and make every possible effort to provide effective protection for the people of Darfur from a humanitarian disaster; 4. Calls on the GoS and the rebel movements to ensure safe and unhindered humanitarian access to those affected by the conflict and to respect international humanitarian law; welcomes the signing on 28 March 2007 of the Joint Communiqué on Facilitation of Humanitarian Activities in Darfur between the GoS and the UN and calls for its full implementation; 5. Calls on all parties to immediately respect the ceasefire, condemns any violation of the ceasefire agreements and in particular any violence directed towards the civilian population and the targeting of humanitarian workers; insists that the GoS stop the bombing of the Darfur region and disarm the Janjaweed militia; notes that without security, a true development policy to and in Sudan is not possible; 6. Welcomes the acceptance by the GoS on 12 June 2007 of the AU/UN hybrid force, recalling however that the GoS has made