licit, scientific and medical market; the second, of a repressive nature, concerns illicit traffic, drug abuse and drug addiction. Control of the licit market is based on a set of national and international preventive measures, which apply to substances classified as narcotic drugs (art. 2 and 3). These measures oblige the States to provide to the control organs - the Commission on Narcotic Drugs of the Economic and Social Council and the International Narcotics Control Board (art. 5 to 18) - estimates of national drug requirements (art. 19), production statistics (art. 20) and regular reports to inform them of the situation in their country. Control of illicit traffic should, according to the 1961 Single Convention, begin by controlling cultivation. The illicit production of the opium poppy, coca leaf and cannabis is the major source of drug traffic. Unable to intervene at the source, international law hopes to discourage it by repressive measures aimed at dissuading drug traffickers. Three provisions to this effect are set out in the Single Convention: a recommendation to the States that serious offences in matters of drug trafficking are liable to "adequate" punishment (art. 36), a measure relating to the confiscation of seized substances (art. 37) and measures for international penal assistance and cooperation, particularly in matters of extradition (art. 35). This cooperation was pushed further in the Vienna Convention of 1988 against the illicit traffic of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. This in fact strengthens the severity of the previous provisions concerning extradition (art. 6), as well as international mutual judicial assistance (art. 7), repressive procedures (art. 8) and the provisions relating to illicit cultivation (art. 14), whilst instituting a specific procedure for finding drug traffickers, via controlled deliveries (art. 11), and arguably create new international crimes such as incitement. The 1971 Convention, which closely resembles the Single Convention, establishes an international control which is clearly less rigorous for the so-called “ psychotropic” substances, generally produced by the pharmaceutical industry. The similarity of the drafting of both texts therefore allows the amendments proposed to the Single Convention to be transposed, mutatis mutandis , to the 1971 Convention. The 1988 Convention is most controversial. It supplements and strengthens the earlier Conventions. The 1961 and 1971 Conventions aim to limit the use of 'narcotic' and 'psychotropic' drugs to medical and/or scientific purposes. They require parties to create 'punishable offences' to control the use of certain drugs, placing controls on manufacture, production, cultivation, importation, purchase or possession. The 1988 Convention goes further. It requires parties to establish breaches of its terms as criminal offences under their domestic law, including the possession, purchase and cultivation of illicit drugs for personal In local, regional, national and European discussions on the effectiveness and the consequences of the current policies towards drugs, the United Nations conventions are often referred to as reasons why changes are not possible. However, these conventions are drafted and ratified by the member States, and these Member States are also in the position to propose amendments and/or to repeal the conventions. At the following conference, two important issues should be