at a red traffic light. speeding, drink-driving, non-use of seatbelt or child restraint system, failing to stop at a red traffic light, moving traffic offences, major road safety offences. Justification If the scope of the directive is extended, the notice needs to reflect this change. Amendment 10 Proposal for a directive Annex - form for the offence notification - page 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Reply form Reply form (please complete using block capitals and mark the applicable option) (please complete using block capitals and mark the applicable option) A. Identity of the driver: A. Identity of the driver: Were you the driver of the vehicle at the time of the commission of the offence (yes/no) If yes, please complete the following: - Name and first name: - Name and first name: - Place and date of birth: - Place and date of birth: - Number of driving licence:...delivered - Number of driving licence:...delivered (date):...and at (place): (date):...and at (place): - Address: - Address: If you were not the driver of the vehicle at the time of the commission of the offence, are you able to indicate the identity of the driver (yes/no) If yes, please complete the following: - Name and first name: - Place and date of birth: - Number of driving licence:...delivered (date):...and at (place): - Address: B. List of questions: B. List of questions: (1) Is the vehicle, make... registration number...registered in your name? (1) Is the vehicle, make... registration number...registered in your name? yes/no yes/no If not, the holder of the registration certificate is: If not, the holder of the registration certificate is: (name, first name, address) (name, first name, address) (2) Do you acknowledge that you committed the offence? (2) Do you acknowledge that you committed the offence? yes/no yes/no (3) If you do not acknowledge this, please explain why: (3) If you do not acknowledge this, or if you refused to reveal the identity of the driver, please explain why: Please send the completed form within 60 days from the date of this notification to the following authority: Please send the completed form within 60 days from the date of this notification to the following authority: at the following address at the following address Justification The amendments proposed in the text must be reflected in the form. PROCEDURE Title Cross-border enforcement in the field of road safety References COM(2008)0151 – C6-0149/2008 – 2008/0062(COD) Committee responsible TRAN Opinion by Date announced in plenary LIBE 10.4.2008 Drafts(wo)man Date appointed Renate Weber 28.5.2008 Discussed in committee 14.7.2008 8.9.2008 Date adopted 8.9.2008 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 32 1 Members present for the final vote Alexander Alvaro, Emine Bozkurt, Philip Bradbourn, Mihael Brejc, Jean-Marie Cavada, Carlos Coelho, Elly de Groen-Kouwenhoven, Esther De Lange, Gérard Deprez, Agustín Díaz de Mera García Consuegra, Claudio Fava, Armando França, Kinga Gál, Patrick Gaubert, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, Ewa Klamt, Wolfgang Kreissl-Dörfler, Henrik Lax, Baroness Sarah Ludford, Claude Moraes, Javier Moreno Sánchez, Rareş-Lucian Niculescu, Martine Roure, Inger Segelström, Renate Weber, Tatjana Ždanoka Substitute(s) present for the final vote Edit Bauer, Frieda Brepoels,