Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (2 September 2005) 1. Almost all EU Member States have agreements on scientific and technological cooperation (S&T cooperation) with China. In the case of new or renewed agreements, e.g. with Hungary, the Chinese Government makes a point of referring to the EU agreement. 2. Within the sixth research framework programme (FP6) COM(2001)31 final. there are a range of projects involving Chinese partners and covering all thematic areas. The emphasis, however, is on IST (information science and technology) topics, renewable energy technologies, food safety, health and the environment. Under the programme for international cooperation with developing countries (INCO) http://www.cordis.lu/inco/home.html , attention is focused on agriculture, the environment and health. In total, China is involved in about 100 FP6 projects (position as at August 2005, including selected projects in respect of which the agreements have not yet been signed). Scientific and technological development programmes are currently under way dealing with the following subjects: environment/energy and telecoms (environment/energy with the focus on energy efficiency, natural gas and renewable energy technologies; telecoms with the focus on e-Government and telecoms regulation). 3. Trade restrictions are being taken into account. At the same time, the ethics and gene transfer sectors are being handled sensitively at a practical level. Technology transfer takes place only under very controlled conditions, e.g. in the areas of standardisation and standards and environmental and energy policies. FP6 is structured in such a way as to ensure that European firms remain firmly in control and that there are no unwanted instances of technology transfer. For instance, the Commission has relatively few research projects involving Chinese partners in the areas of aircraft manufacturing, materials and intelligent transport systems. 4. The interfaces between research and development projects have improved significantly as a result of deconcentration. Consequently, all development projects are now planned and monitored in the Beijing EU representation. This will ensure a very close degree of cooperation between the development department and the representatives of the Research and Information Society Directorates-General. In addition, there will also be very active consultations with the EU Member States and (in the case of development projects) with other donors. The Commission agrees with the Honourable Member that research cooperation is beneficial to trade on both sides. At the practical level, this can be seen from examples of Chinese standards which, because of the ongoing S&T cooperation in the biosafety, environment and telecoms sectors, are very similar, by and large, to those of the EU. As far as European companies are concerned, this has very positive consequences. Beyond this, however, S&T cooperation gives a decisive boost to overall political relations and mutual trust. Cooperation is also a contributory factor in the case of sensitive major projects such as Galileo and ITER. China is interested in new European projects such as Sesame and zero-emission coal power plants. On the occasion of Commissioner Potočnik’s visit to Beijing in April 2005, agreement was reached on strengthening political cooperation in the S&T sector. This will entail, for instance: — joint preparations by China and the