P6_TA(2009)0306 Deforestation and forest degradation B6-0191/2009 European Parliament resolution of 23 April 2009 on addressing the challenges of deforestation and forest degradation to tackle climate change and biodiversity loss The European Parliament , – having regard to the Commission Communication of 17 October 2008 entitled "Addressing the challenges of deforestation and forest degradation to tackle climate change and biodiversity loss" ( COM(2008)0645 ), – having regard to the decisions taken at the Fifth Ministerial Conference on the Protection of Forests in Europe held in November 2007 in Warsaw, Poland on assessing the effects of climate change on the state of forests and on a policy for a sustainable forest economy, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the EU wishes to limit global warming to 2 °C and to halve biodiversity loss; whereas the Eliasch Review estimates that USD 17-33 billion will be required annually to halve deforestation by 2030, B. whereas a sustainable forest economy is of vital importance in combating deforestation and is an essential aspect of economic development, C. whereas deforestation accounts for some 20 % of global greenhouse gas emissions, is a major driver of biodiversity loss and constitutes a serious threat to development and, in particular, to the livelihoods of the poor, D. whereas deforestation occurs at the alarming rate of 13 million hectares per year, primarily in tropical forests, but also to a certain extent in Europe, especially Central and Eastern Europe, E. whereas deforestation results in environmental damage which is hard to reverse, such as long-term disruption of water conditions, steppe-formation and desertification, and biodiversity loss, the overall economic costs of which far exceed expenditure on protection and improvement measures, F. whereas forest degradation takes different forms and is difficult to define, but has major impacts on climate, biodiversity and goods and services, G. whereas a significant deviation from 'business-as-usual' emissions growth in developing countries, including a reduction in emissions related to deforestation, needs to be achieved in addition to a 25-40 % reduction in industrialised countries by 2020 compared to 1990 to limit global warming to 2°C, according to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, H. whereas reducing deforestation will play an important role as regards not only climate change mitigation but also adaptation to climate change, 1. Stresses the need for more coherence between forest conservation and sustainable management policies and other EU internal and external policies; calls for a quantified evaluation of the impact on forests of EU policies such as energy (especially biofuels), agriculture, sustainable production and consumption, procurement, trade and development cooperation; 2. Calls on the Commission to present to Parliament and the Council proposals for stringent Community sustainability requirements for all timber and timber products sourced from forests; 3. Calls on the Commission to publish by the end of 2009 a comprehensive study assessing the impact of EU production, consumption and trade in both food and non-food commodities on deforestation and forest degradation; calls for the study to evaluate and specify any negative contribution by different industry sectors