Question for written answer E-5225/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Konstantinos Poupakis (PPE) (8 July 2010) Subject: The ‘NEET’ phenomenon as a ‘raw material’ for exacerbating social exclusion and propagating social inequalities Since April 2008, in meetings of the Commission on EU indicators and statistics (SCIB), there has been extensive discussion of the problem of the growing category of young people who drop out of the formal education system and then remain outside any institutional framework of training and employment. This is the ‘NEET’ phenomenon (young people not in education, employment or training). Their situation is not a personal ‘choice’. Indeed, the fact that these young people are not in any institution at the age of 15 should be interpreted as a shortcoming of the prevailing value system and its failure to retain and inspire them and give meaning to their lives as they make their way in society. Undoubtedly, this fragile social group is a ‘raw material’ which is extremely likely to be pushed to the margins of modern society, along with the other socially excluded groups now being created on a daily basis by social, economic and cultural inequalities exacerbated by the financial crisis. 1. Does the Commission intend to record the statistical representation of ‘NEETs’ and these young people’s progress in society and employment, since according to various statistics this phenomenon has taken on particularly worrying dimensions? (In the UK it is estimated that more than 200 000 16‑18-year-olds are outside the official education system). 2. What guidelines will it give to the Member States to tackle the social marginalisation of this section of the population? 3. Has it produced, or will it do so, in cooperation with the social partners, a comprehensive action plan with targeted policies to reintegrate these young people normally into the structures of the formal education system and lifelong learning, so that they acquire skills to enable them to access the job market?