and environmentally viable and sustainable projects, J. whereas the EIB’s activities are not comparable with those of any other commercial bank as the EIB grants loans solely for investment projects and not for the general treasury of public or private undertakings, K. whereas the EIB’s prime task is to support capital investment promoting sustainable development, economic and social cohesion in the EU, priorities, together with the EIF, are the funding of SME, R&D, the development of the information society, environmental protection, regional development and investment in education, employment, health and social infrastructures, L. whereas the importance of the EIB’s role is recognized also for the implementation of the Growth Initiative in the framework of its i2i programme to support the Lisbon agenda, M. whereas the EIB is subject to OLAF scrutiny, in the same way as all Community institutions, bodies, offices and agencies, as stipulated by the Court of Justice of the European Communities (Case C-15/00), 1. Welcomes the EIB annual activity report and the fact that for the first time the EIB has forwarded its Audit Committee report and related documentation to Parliament; 2. Welcomes the improvement in the transparency of the information disclosed to the public by the EIB; 3. Congratulates the EIB on the ratings it has obtained; 4. Decides to hold a public hearing in autumn 2004 on the EIB activities and policy guidelines, in order to continue a transparent discussion on the issue; notes that the President of the EIB has shown his interest in and availability for that initiative; 5. Recognises the special statute of the EIB and requests the EIB in this light to come with proposals in line with the European Commissions action plan on modernising company law and enhancing corporate governance ( COM (2003) 284 ) and the Parliaments' resolutions on supervision of financial services and corporate governance; 6. Recommends that the EIB continues to improve and better demonstrates the nature and final destination of its global loans in support of SMEs, or of small and medium-size infrastructure and other public works, since from the information analized it can be derived that 45% of global loans are used to fund SMEs; 7. Supports the EIB's attempts to optimize its coordination with the Commission and to inform the Parliament on this issue as regards the EU Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund; 8. Repeats the need to bring the EIB under prudential supervision, be it by the European Central Bank or by any other structure dealing with banking supervision at European level; recognises once again that this needs to be arranged in the Treaty; Calls therefore upon the Commission and Member States to come with an initiative and asks the EIB to actively consider possibilities and report back to the Parliament; 9. Welcomes the fact that the EIB has adopted the Commission´s definition of SME´s and supports its attempts to put it into practice; 10. Strongly calls again upon the EIB, Court of Auditors and the Commission to amend the tripartite agreement following its expiry on 19 March 2003 to authorise the Court of Auditors