Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (22 March 2006) The Commission is aware of the facts described by the Honourable Member. The site ‘Sierra de Almenara’ (ES6200035) has been proposed by the Spanish authorities as a site of Community importance (pSCI) under the Habitats Directive Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora. . It is partly overlapped with the SPA ‘Sierra de Almenara, Moreras y Cabo Cope’ (ES0000261) designated by the Spanish authorities under the Birds Directive Council Directive 79/409EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds, OJ L 103, 25.4.1979. . Regarding the first question on the possible effects of the urban development planned to the Natura 2000 site, it should be highlighted first that the area where this project will take place is included in both the SPA and the pSCI. Therefore, Article 6(3) and 6(4) of the Habitats Directive apply. This will entail according to Article 6(3) that the project likely to have an effect on the site should be subject to an appropriate assessment of its implications for the site in view of the site’s conservation objectives. Subsequent to the conclusions of such assessment and subject to the sequential steps provided for in Article 6(4) of the directive, the competent authorities shall agree to the project only having ascertained that it will not adversely affect the integrity of the site concerned, and, if appropriate, after having obtained the opinion of the general public. The Commission will contact the Spanish Authorities requesting further information on the assessment of this planned urban development. In the context of the second question which links the imperative reasons of overriding public interest of the project with the boundaries modifications of the pSCI, it should be clarified firstly that Article 6(4) does not include any provisions on how a Member State can modify a proposed site of Community importance. Article 6(4) addresses specific situations with regard to the general rule of Article 6(3) according to which authorisation can only be granted to plans or projects not affecting the integrity of the sites concerned. Thus, the modification of the boundaries of a pSCI has to be addressed under the provisions of Article 9 of the Habitats Directive and can only be considered when it is warranted by natural developments. Besides, social and economic aspects cannot be used Case C‑371/98 Decision of the Court of Justice of 7 November 2000. in choosing and delimiting sites that must be proposed to the Commission as sites of Community importance. The Commission will contact the Spanish authorities requesting relevant information regarding the implementation of the abovementioned directive in relation to the case.