Answer given by Mr Hahn on behalf of the Commission (18 January 2011) Member States are primarily responsible for preventing, detecting and correcting irregularities. The recovery of undue payments follows the relevant national procedural rules. The document ‘Statistical Evaluation of Irregularities- Own Resources, Agriculture, Cohesion Policy, Pre-Accession Funds and Direct Expenditure-Year 2009’, to which the Honourable Member refers, presents figures reported as ‘notified irregularities’ by the Member States and based on their own control activites. There can be a time lag between the detection of irregularities by a Member State and their notification to the European Anti-Fraud Office. Furthermore, it may not be necessary to recover in full the amounts initially notified as the cases undergo a ‘contradictory’ procedure at national level, through which further evidence can be produced which can lead to reducing (or even annulling) the corrections proposed. In other cases, some amounts may also be declared as unrecoverable. As concerns the recovery of money for the EU budget in the area of structural actions, Member States may pay back irregular amounts to the Commission in one of two ways: — Where the Commission takes a formal correction decision, it issues a recovery order against the Member State, which has 2 months to repay the funds. — Where the Member State agrees to carry out the financial correction itself by withdrawing the concerned amount from a payment claim, the Member State can decide either to immediately withdraw the irregular amount from a subsequent payment claim to the Commission or to recover the money first and then reimburse the Union budget. The Commission also performs verification and audit work and can impose additional financial corrections on the Member States. The cumulative financial corrections imposed by the Commission by a formal decision or accepted by the Member States at the Commission's request amount to EUR 8.4 billion as of 19 November 2010. Of this, EUR 6.3 billion has been recovered for the EU budget through one of the ways described above. This represents an implementation rate of 75 % so far on a cumulative basis since 2000. The vast majority of corrections not yet recovered by the Commission were decided/confirmed in 2009. These amounts can only be deducted or paid back by the concerned Member States after 2009. As the 2000‑06 programming period is now in its closure phase, the remaining corrections will be cleared at the EU budget level during the processing of final payment claims. In agriculture, according to the principle of shared management, the recovery of unduly paid amounts from final beneficiaries is the sole responsibility of the Member States. However, Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 of 21 June 2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy, OJ L 209, 11.8.2005. introduced an automatic clearing mechanism under which, in case of the occurrence of an irregulartiy or negligence, 50 % of any undue payments which the Member States have not recovered from the beneficiaries within 4 years (in the case of legal proceedings, 8 years) is charged to their national budgets (50/50 rule). Moreover,