provided for in paragraph 2, resulting from the proposed limited range of representative uses of the active substance, shall lead to non-approval of the active substance ; d) for each test or study involving vertebrate animals, a justification of the steps taken to avoid animal testing and duplicative testing on vertebrate animals; e) a checklist demonstrating that the dossier provided for in paragraph 2 is complete; f) the reasons why the test and study reports submitted are necessary for first approval of the active substance or for amendments to the conditions of the approval; g) an assessment of all information submitted. 2. The complete dossier shall contain the full text of the individual test and study reports concerning all the information referred to in points (b) and (c) of paragraph 1. ▐ 3. The format of the summary dossier and the complete dossier shall be established in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 83 (2). The data requirements referred to in paragraph 1 shall be laid down in Regulations adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 83 (2), transferring the requirements for active substances and plant protection products in Annexes II and III to Directive 91/414/EEC with any ▐ modifications necessary due to the change from a directive to a regulation . Similar data requirements shall be defined for safeners and synergists in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty. 4. All scientific peer-reviewed open literature on the active substance and its metabolites regarding negative side-effects on health, the environment and non-target species shall be added by the applicant to the dossier. Article 10 Admissibility of the application 1. Within 30 days of receiving the application, the rapporteur Member State shall check whether the dossiers submitted with the application contain all the elements provided for in Article 9 , using the checklist referred to in Article 9(1)(e). 2. Where one or more of the elements provided for in Article 9 are missing, the rapporteur Member State shall inform the applicant, setting a time period of no longer than three months for their submission. Article 8(5) shall apply . Where at the end of that period, the applicant has not submitted the missing elements, the rapporteur Member State shall inform the applicant that the application is inadmissible. A new application for the same substance may be submitted at any time. 3. Where the dossiers submitted with the application contain all the elements provided for in Article 9, the rapporteur Member State shall notify the applicant, the Commission, the other Member States and the Authority of the admissibility of the application and start assessing the active substance. After receiving that notification, the applicant shall immediately forward the summary dossier and the complete dossier to the other Member States, the Authority and the Commission. Article 11 Access to the summary dossier The Authority shall without delay make the summary dossier referred to in Article 9 (1) available to the public, excluding any information which is confidential under Article 66. Article 12 Draft assessment