WRITTEN QUESTION P-1443/06 by Roberta Angelilli (UEN) to the Commission (30 March 2006) Subject: Rome general land-use plan: possible violation of European legislation on strategic environmental assessments On 22 March 2006 Rome City Council adopted changes to the new general land-use plan, which will thus be finally adopted once it has been put before the Latium Regional Council for the last time. The land-use plan would, however, appear not to comply with legislation on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment. The legislation in question, namely Directive 2001/42/EC OJ L 197, 21.7.2001, p. 30 . , seeks to ensure a high level of environmental protection and identifies strategic environmental assessments (SEAs) as the means of ensuring that the objective of sustainable development is taken into account when plans are adopted. This ensures that the environmental impact of the implementation of certain plans and programmes are considered and assessed at both the design and decision-making stages. The directive is binding upon Rome City Council, since it was transposed by means of Regional Executive Decision No 1516 of 21 November 2002. Despite this, the technical rules laid down in the general land-use plan do not require an SEA to be carried out for the construction projects provided for in the plan. Furthermore, provision is made for various different uses to be made of one third of the land currently within the Agro Romano area around Rome, and unless an SEA is carried out, there is a risk that the operations involved will have a harmful impact on the local environment, and thus be in breach of Directive 2001/42/EC. Furthermore, major construction projects are planned in various parts of Rome, such as in the Romanina district, without any provision being made for adequate public and private transport infrastructure. Given the above, can the Commission: 1. say whether the new Rome general land-use plan complies with Directive 2001/42/EC? 2. say whether environmental legislation has been complied with? 3. provide a general overview of the situation?