of the automatic cancellation of financial resources may be made at the level of the Member State . Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 - point 29 - point b a (new) Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 Article 71 - paragraph 3 - subparagraph 2 - point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) In paragraph 3, point (a) of the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: " ( a ) VAT, except non-recoverable VAT when it is genuinely and definitively borne by beneficiaries […] ." Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 – point 29 – point b b (new) Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 Article 71 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b b ) The following paragraph is inserted after paragraph 3: ‘3a. Work carried out on a time and materials basis as part of rural development measures by the ultimate beneficiaries using the manpower, materials and equipment which a firm has to hand shall be eligible for an EAFRD contribution; in such cases, the amount of expenditure eligible for a EAFRD contribution shall be calculated on the basis of a price list for the various works performed.’ Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 - point 37 Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 Article 91b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The powers to adopt the delegated acts referred to in this Regulation shall be conferred on the Commission for an indeterminate period of time . 1. The power to adopt the delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this Article. As soon as it adopts a delegated act, the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament and to the Council. 2. The delegation of power may be revoked at any time by the European Parliament or by the Council. 2. The delegation of power referred to in Article 5(2) and (6), the second subparagraph of Article 19(2), Article 20a, Article 32(1)b, Article 36a, Article 38(2), Article 51(4), Articles 52a and 63a, Article 66(2), Article 70(1), Article 71(5), the first sentence of Article 74(4), Article 86(9) and Article 92(1) shall be conferred on the Commission for a period of five years from ... * . The Commission shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power no t later than nine month s before the end of the five - year period. The delegation of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration, unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension not later than three month before the end of each period. The institution which has commenced an internal procedure for deciding whether to revoke the delegation of power shall endeavour to inform the other institution and the Commission within a reasonable time before the final decision is taken, indicating the delegated powers which could be subject to revocation and possible reasons for a revocation. The decision of revocation shall put an end to