*: 8. Annexes*: Include all certificates *: mandatory fields Justification Changes made necessary by changes to the enacting terms. Amendment 70 Proposal for a regulation Annex VIII – point 6 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6a. All sources of funding and support for the initiative, including the amount of financial support at the time of submission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The European Citizens' Initiative will be a powerful agenda-setting instrument. It was introduced in the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe and then in the Lisbon Treaty, with the aim of empowering citizens with the same political initiative powers that the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament already enjoy. It is in particular meant to provide citizens with a means to be heard by enabling them to refer some issues of interest to the European institutions. These may include difficulties that they face in their daily lives which they do not feel receive enough attention or support from trade unions, political institutions or any other regular interlocutor of the institutions. It will indeed establish a direct link between the citizens and the institutions, thus bridging the gap between them and ensuring that the EU institutions will address the concrete problems which are of importance to them. The other aim of the European Citizens' Initiative is to foster greater cross-border debates within the EU. This is precisely why your rapporteurs have made the suggestion that the organisers of a European Citizens' Initiative should gather into a citizens' committee composed of persons coming from different Member States. This will ensure that the issues which arise are truly European, all the while having the added value of helping the collection of signatures from the very beginning. The European Parliament will be able to contribute to the achievement of these goals by making use of all the means in its power to support the Citizens' Initiatives of its choice, notably through the organisation of public hearings or the adoption of resolutions. The Citizens' Initiative will only succeed if its regulation is citizen-friendly and does not create cumbersome obligations for and frustration among the organisers. In this frame of mind, your rapporteurs have worked to make this instrument easier to use and to guarantee that citizens will not be asked to sign Initiatives which might not be admissible. They have also borne in mind the fact that, as with every right, the Citizens' Initiative comes with the need to comply with certain requirements; administrative ones, but also respect for the fundamental values of the EU among others. These ensure its liability and thus its efficiency, both of which will be the key to its success. Hence, it is crucial to ensure that the process is in line with the EU data protection requirements and that it is fully transparent, from the start until the end. Indeed, every organisation, association, or even political party, will have the possibility to support the European Citizens' Initiatives of their choice as long as there is a full transparency regarding their support so that the signatories will know who is