development of fusion, initiatives aimed at ensuring that adequate human resources will be available, in terms of numbers, range of skills and high level training and experience will be pursued, including by means of a European PHD in Physics and Engineering of Fusion . Amendment 15 Annex I, subtitle 'Fusion Energy Research', subtitle 'Activities', bullet 6 a (new) Technology transfer processes ITER will require new and more flexible organisational structures to enable the process of innovation and technological progress which it creates to be swiftly transferred to industry, so that challenges can be met enabling European industry to become highly competitive . Justification Having the ITER operation in Europe will mean enhanced technological leadership in future in the new technologies to be developed under the operation which will favour European industry and make it more competitive vis-à-vis the United States and Japan. If adequate progress is made with the above elements, the future development of power plants will be in the hands of European firms. Amendment 16 Annex I, subtitle 'Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection', subtitle 'Rationale', paragraph 2 There are, however, important concerns that affect the continued use of this energy source in the EU. The key issues are operational reactor safety and management of long-lived waste, both of which are being addressed through continued work at the technical level, though allied political and societal inputs are also required. In all uses of radiation, throughout industry and medicine alike, the overriding principle is the protection of man and the environment. All thematic domains to be addressed here are characterised by an overriding concern to ensure high levels of safety. Similarly there are clearly identifiable needs throughout nuclear science and engineering relating to availability of research infrastructures and expertise. In addition, the individual technical areas are linked by key cross-cutting topics such as the nuclear fuel cycle, actinide chemistry, risk analysis and safety assessment and even societal and governance issues. There are, however, important concerns that affect the continued use of this energy source in the EU. Efforts are nevertheless required to consolidate and improve existing safety levels and ensure that improving protection against radiation continues to be one of the priorities for Community action. The key issues are operational reactor safety and management of long-lived waste, both of which are being addressed through continued work at the technical level, though allied political and societal inputs are also required. In all uses of radiation, throughout industry and medicine alike, the overriding principle is the protection of man and the environment. All thematic domains to be addressed here are characterised by an overriding concern to ensure high levels of safety. Similarly there are clearly identifiable needs throughout nuclear science and engineering relating to availability of research infrastructures and expertise. In addition, the individual technical areas are linked by key cross-cutting topics such as the nuclear fuel cycle, actinide chemistry, risk analysis and safety assessment and even societal and governance issues. Amendment 17 Annex I, subtitle 'Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection', subtitle 'Activities', bullet 1 Implementation oriented research and development activities on deep geological