admissibility laid down in these Guidelines. 6. The President shall rule on the admissibility of supplementary questions and shall limit their number so that each Member who has put down a question may receive an answer to it. The President shall not be obliged to declare a supplementary question admissible, even where it satisfies the foregoing conditions of admissibility, if: (a) it is likely to upset the normal conduct of Question Time, or (b) the main question to which it relates has already been adequately covered by other supplementary questions, or (c) it has no direct bearing on the main question. Answers to questions 7. The institution concerned shall ensure that answers are concise and are relevant to the subject of the question. 8. If the content of the questions concerned permits it, the President may decide, after consulting the questioners, that the institution concerned should answer them together. 9. A question may be answered only if the questioner is present or has notified the President in writing, before Question Time begins, of the name of his substitute. 10. If neither the questioner nor his substitute is present, the question shall lapse. 11. If a Member tables a question, but neither he nor his substitute are present at Question Time, the President shall write to the Member reminding him of his responsibility to be present or substituted. If the President has to send such a letter three times in the space of any twelve-month period, the Member concerned shall lose his right to table questions at Question Time for a six-month period. 12. Questions that remain unanswered for lack of time shall be answered in accordance with Rule 110(4), first subparagraph, unless the authors thereof request application of Rule 110(3). 13. The procedure for answers in writing shall be governed by Rule 110(3) and (5). Time limits 14. Questions shall be tabled at least one week before Question Time begins. Questions not tabled within this time limit may be taken during Question Time with the consent of the institution concerned. Questions declared admissible shall be distributed to Members and forwarded to the institutions concerned. Format 15. Question Time with the Commission may, with the agreement of the Commission, be divided into specific question times with individual Members of the Commission. Question Time with the Council may, with the agreement of the Council, be divided into question times with the Presidency, the High Representative for common foreign and security policy or the President of the Eurogroup. It may also be divided by subject. B. Recommendations (extract from resolution of Parliament of 13 November 1986) The European Parliament, 1. Recommends stricter application of the guidelines for the conduct of Question Time under Rule 43 Now Rule 109. , and in particular of point 1 of those guidelines concerning admissibility; 2. Recommends more frequent use of the power conferred on the President of the European Parliament by Rule 43(3) Now Rule 109(3). to group questions for Question Time according to subject; considers, however, that only the questions falling within the first half of the list