Schinas , Atanas Paparizov , Ivo Belet , Zbigniew Krzysztof Kuźmiuk , Claude Turmes and Czesław Adam Siekierski . The following spoke: László Kovács , Olle Schmidt and Astrid Lulling , who made a personal statement in response to remarks by Claude Turmes . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 13.03.2008, item 4.4 . 18 Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund (debate) Report: on the Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund [ 2007/2188(INI) ] - Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. Rapporteur: Claude Turmes ( A6-0006/2008 ) Claude Turmes introduced the report. The following spoke: Stavros Dimas (Member of the Commission) . IN THE CHAIR: Edward McMILLAN-SCOTT Vice-President The following spoke: Eija-Riitta Korhola (draftsman of the opinion of the ENVI Committee), Romana Jordan Cizelj , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Matthias Groote , on behalf of the PSE Group, Fiona Hall , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Esko Seppänen , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Paul Rübig , Jorgo Chatzimarkakis , Silvia-Adriana Ţicău and Teresa Riera Madurell . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Jerzy Buzek , Zbigniew Krzysztof Kuźmiuk , Czesław Adam Siekierski and Ewa Tomaszewska . The following spoke: Stavros Dimas and Claude Turmes . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 13.03.2008, item 4.1 . 19 The particular situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life (debate) Report: on the particular situation of women in prison and the impact of the imprisonment of parents on social and family life [ 2007/2116(INI) ] - Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. Rapporteur: Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou ( A6-0033/2008 ) Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou introduced the report. The following spoke: Louis Michel (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Anna Záborská , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Teresa Riera Madurell , on behalf of the PSE Group, Marios Matsakis , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Ewa Tomaszewska , on behalf of the UEN Group, Hiltrud Breyer , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Věra Flasarová , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Zita Pleštinská , Zita Gurmai , Bairbre de Brún , Kathy Sinnott and Corina Creţu . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Zuzana Roithová . The following spoke: Louis Michel and Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 13.03.2008, item 4.7 . 20 Agenda of the next sitting The agenda of the next day's sitting had been established ('Agenda' PE 403.203/OJJE). 21 Closure of the sitting The sitting closed at 23.55. Harald R ømer Adam Bielan Secretary-General Vice-President ATTENDANCE REGISTER The following signed: Agnoletto Aita Albertini Allister Alvaro Anastase Andersson Andrejevs Andria Andrikienė Angelakas Angelilli Arif Arnaoutakis Ashworth Assis Atkins Attard-Montalto Attwooll Aubert Audy Auken Ayala Sender Aylward Ayuso Baco Badia i Cutchet Baeva Barón Crespo Battilocchio Batzeli Bauer Beazley Becsey Belder Belet Belohorská Beňová Berend Berès Berlato Berlinguer Berman Bielan Binev Birutis Blokland Bloom Bobošíková Bodu Böge Bösch Bonde Bonsignore Borghezio Borrell Fontelles Bossi Boştinaru Botopoulos Bourzai Bowis Bowles Bozkurt Bradbourn Braghetto Brejc Brepoels Breyer Březina Brie Brok Budreikaitė van Buitenen