the development of tourism can be a factor in the fight against totalitarianism, dictatorships and over-centralised power, R. whereas tourism is associated in some countries with violations of human rights such as child labour, prostitution and the sexual exploitation of children, S. whereas global terrorism targeted at democracy and its defenders, acting on a massive scale and indiscriminately leaving civilians the victims of cowardly and murderous attacks, has particularly been aimed at tourism and tourists, T. whereas tourism can be a democratic activity which enables the creation, at local, regional and national levels, of representative economic and social civil society organisations, U. having regard to the federative role of tourism and its contribution to territorial, social and economic cohesion, V. whereas tourists can currently use their freedom of movement to visit several destinations in a single trip, thus contributing to an increase in regional cooperation and to the establishment of closer relations between countries, W. whereas governments and, in particular, tour operators in the Member States have a major influence on the choice of tourist destination, and negative publicity regarding countries which do not respect the principles of democracy and human rights is a form of deterrent, X. whereas the International Fair Trade in Tourism Network was set up in 1999 as a three- year project with funding from the Commission and the UK Department for International Development to promote ethical trading practices, Tourism as a factor in public health and education Y. whereas a country's public health standards are an element in its attractiveness, Z. whereas tourism impacts on public health standards, thanks to such necessary elements as hygiene requirements, healthcare measures, vaccination campaigns and the dissemination of information on disease prevention, AA. whereas HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are now global scourges, AB. having regard to the risk arising to both tourists and local people from the spread of highly contagious diseases such as diarrhoeic infections, respiratory infections, fevers of unknown cause and hepatitis, AC. whereas tourism impacts on education, allowing local communities access to language learning and the new information and communications technologies and thus enabling them to promote their cultural heritage on a basis of respect for customs and traditions while also requiring a new awareness and adaptation to the evolution of society and modern habits, AD. whereas it is nonetheless essential that public authorities should ensure the preservation of local traditions that respect human rights, especially the rights of women and of children, Tourism as a factor in disturbance and abuse AE. whereas all job creation measures must be compliant with International Labour Organization (ILO) standards, AF. whereas sex tourism must be dealt with by means of a permanent and concerted campaign on the part of the European and local authorities, in coordination with non-governmental organisations, AG. whereas only coordinated measures, the spread of information and the introduction of penalties on the basis of respect for international law can be genuinely effective, AH. whereas widespread publicity regarding the penalties for sex tourism should have a deterrent effect, and crimes related to sexual tourism must be prosecuted and it