of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the opinions of the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Culture and Education and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs ( A7‑0350/2010 ), 1. Adopts its position at first reading hereinafter set out; 2. Calls on the Commission to refer the matter to Parliament again if it intends to amend its proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council, the Commission and the national parliaments. Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1) The Treaty on European Union reinforces the citizenship of the Union and enhances further the democratic functioning of the Union by providing inter alia that every citizen shall have the right to participate in the democratic life of the Union and that not less than one million citizens who are nationals of a significant number of Member States may take the initiative of inviting the European Commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Treaties. (1) The Treaty on European Union reinforces the citizenship of the Union and enhances further the democratic functioning of the Union by providing inter alia that every citizen shall have the right to participate in the democratic life of the Union by way of a European citizens' initiative . That procedure affords citizens the possibility of directly approaching the Commission, conferring on them a right of initiative similar to that exercised by the European Parliament and the Council. Justification It is superfluous to repeat Treaty provisions in a recital. The necessary references to the Treaties are already made in the citations. In the last sentence the place of the initiative in the overall framework of the European construction is referred to. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (2) The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the European Parliament and the Council should adopt the provisions for the procedures and conditions required for such a citizens' initiative. deleted Justification It is useless to repeat the Treaty provision in a recital. The legal base is already referred to in the first citation of the Regulation. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) These procedures and conditions should be clear, simple, user-friendly and proportionate to the nature of the citizens' initiative. (3) These procedures and conditions should be clear, simple, user-friendly and proportionate to the nature of the citizens' initiative , so as to encourage participation by citizens and to make the Union more accessible. They should strike a judicious balance between rights and obligations . Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3a) It is important for efficient information and publicity campaigns concerning citizens'