a letter of 7 August 2000, where the FSA replies to the German regulator BAV asking for an update on EL after the House of Lords ruling. BAV was informed that EL " remained solvent ", adding in very optimistic terms that " the company is putting itself up for sale and ... there are not expected to be any shortage of companies interested in acquiring Equitable Life, because of its strong reputation in the UK industry for efficiency ... The management of the company appear to be handling the situation effectively and we are satisfied that in doing so they are seeking to act in the best interests of policyholders." (WE-CONF9) This statement was made just 4 months before EL's closure for new business and the resignation of the EL board! Finally, WE75 related of a complaint against the FSA's ratification of Mr. Treves' appointment as chairman of EL in 2001: Mr. Treves is described as " having far too many competing chairmanships and being over retirement age, having no experience in life companies ... and having presided over massively expensive failed legal actions." The FSA is reported taking note of these concerns but without giving any further justification. see WE75, point b). 1f) Claims of Regulators' drive to avoid EL's insolvency While Equitable Life appears to have deliberately exploited a possible systemic weakness of the UK regulatory system, the question arises if regulators should or could have recognised this intention but did nothing to prevent its crisis, and then - when it was too late - opted for a solution avoiding the Society's insolvency. This choice, possibly not in the interest of the industry or the financial marketplace as such as insolvency might have burdened the existing financial compensation schemes and hurt confidence in the UK financial market as a whole, might have negatively affected policyholders, otherwise falling under such a scheme. In his testimony, Mr. WEIR (H2), representing a policyholder action group, claimed a collective effort by the " UK Government to keep Equitable Life afloat, concealing any culpability on the part of UK regulators and avoiding insolvency at any price". He also accused regulators of collusion with the board of Equitable Life to " ensure that the losses ... are borne by investors . This meant avoiding any costs to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), to the rest of the financial services industry (and) to the Treasury." Mr. JOSEPHS (H2) added that " powerful external forces, not least the Treasury and the FSA, were in favour of continuing with the existing strategy." Referring to this issue and to the general question of Equitable Life's alleged technical insolvency, the UK Treasury representative Mr. MAXWELL (H4) made a point to clarify that "Equitable Life decided to close to new business: the society did not go insolvent." The FSA representative Mr. STRACHAN (H4) dismissed " any misperception that Equitable Life has in some sense 'collapsed' or 'failed' in solvency terms. This is not the case: at all times the company has remained solvent . At no time has Equitable defaulted