addition of non-essential elements, they must be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC. (57) Certain provisions of Directive 91/414/EEC should remain applicable during the transitional period, HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Subject matter and purpose 1. This Regulation lays down rules for the authorisation of plant protection products in commercial form and for their placing on the market, use and control within the Community. 2. This Regulation lays down both rules for the approval of active substances, safeners and synergists, which plant protection products contain or consist of, and rules for adjuvants and co-formulants. 3. The purpose of this Regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of both human and animal health and the environment. 4. This Regulation is based on the precautionary principle in order to ensure that substances or products placed on the market do not adversely affect human health or the environment. 5. The purpose of this Regulation is furthermore to harmonise the rules on the placing on the market of plant protection products in order to harmonise the availability of plant protection products between farmers in different Member States. 6. Member States may not be prevented from applying the precautionary principle in restricting or prohibiting pesticides. 7. Member States may establish any pesticide-free zones they deem necessary in order to safeguard drinking water resources. Such pesticide-free zones may cover the entire Member State. 8. Member States may impose a ban on the use and marketing of EU-authorised pesticides where they are found in measurable quantities outside the root zone. Article 2 Scope 1. This Regulation shall apply to products, in the form in which they are supplied to the user, consisting of or containing active substances, safeners or synergists, and intended for one of the following uses: a) protecting plants or plant products against all harmful organisms or preventing the action of such organisms, unless the main purpose of these products is considered to be for hygiene reasons rather than for the protection of plants or plant products; b) influencing the life processes of plants, such as substances influencing their growth, other than as a nutrient; c) preserving plant products, insofar as such substances or products are not subject to special Community provisions on preservatives; d) destroying undesired plants or parts of plants, except algae; e) checking or preventing undesired growth of plants, except algae. These products are referred to hereinafter as "plant protection products". 2. This Regulation shall apply to substances, including micro-organisms and viruses, having general or specific action against harmful organisms or on plants, parts of plants or plant products, hereinafter "active substances". It shall, however, cease to apply to micro-organisms, viruses, pheromones and biological products once a specific regulation on biological control products has been adopted. 3. This Regulation shall apply to the following: a) substances or preparations which are added to a plant protection product to eliminate or reduce phytotoxic effects of the preparation on certain plants, hereinafter "safeners"; b) substances or preparations which, while