Answer given by Mr Busquin on behalf of the Commission (12 March 2002) On 1 February 2002 a local newspaper article highlighted the existence of a crack (in fact an internal welding anomaly) in the High Flux Reactor (HFR). This has existed since the current reactor vessel was installed in 1984. It has been fully documented to the regulatory authorities. The crack has been monitored and measured continually over the years during In Service Inspection , and in August 2001 the results of an inspection and measurement of this internal crack led to public concern that the crack might have grown. The scientific experts who carried out the tests and the Nuclear Research and Consultancy Group (NRG) indicated that the apparent growth was explained by a change of instrument used in the measurement and that it posed no danger to safety. After discussion and review of the technical details of the measurements, the Dutch Safety Authorities (KFD-Kern Fysische Dienst) allowed the reactor to continue operation but requested a further inspection in summer 2002. In response to allegations made in 2001 by a staff member of NRG, the Dutch company operating the HFR, the Dutch licensing authority launched an investigation into the safety and the functioning of the High Flux Reactor. The Commission as a license holder fully co-operated in this investigation. The investigation concluded that while the High Flux Reactor management had fully respected the license conditions, there had been inconsistencies between the operating instructions and the technical safety specifications applied by NRG, leading to different interpretations of how to apply some procedures. In the light of the above, the Commission expressed to the Dutch authorities and NRG the view that improvements in the safety culture of the HFR operation were possible and desirable. At the request of the Joint Research Center (JRC), the International Atomic Energy Agency of Vienna (IAEA) has accepted to perform an audit on the safety culture. The audit has started on 13 February 2002. The expert panel of the IAEA, conducting this audit, will report directly to the Commission through the Institute of Energy of the JRC. In the light of the latest developments, the Commission has recommended that the reactor be shut down temporarily to permit re-measurement of the crack (the internal welding anomaly). The shutdown period will also be used to accelerate the implementation of training and other measures to enhance the safety culture. In agreement with the KFD, it has been decided to keep the HFR in operation until the end of the current cycle (18 February 2002) in order to minimise the risk of disruption to the short term supply of medical radioisotopes used for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer. This should allow radioisotope producers to find alternative supplies. In that context, the Commission welcomes the meeting of the European radioisotopes producers and European research reactors association foreseen in the coming days to negotiate contingency schedules with reactor operators for the period February and March 2002.