of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: According to Special Report 9/2004 of the Court of Auditors, the impact of measures for afforestation of agriculture land has been low: the degree of afforestation is not significant and the result could be obtained more cheaply. The projects financed lead to dispersed and uncoordinated implementation in rural areas. Overall forestry action is not sufficiently targeted. Paying agencies in some new Member States are still not accredited. According to Special Report 3/2005 of the Court of Auditors, the Commission has not sufficiently verified the correct functioning of agri-environment support control systems in the Member States, particularly concerning organic farming. According to Special Report 7/2006 of the Court of Auditors, support for rural areas has decreased markedly compared to the previous programming period (1994-1999) and funds have not been targeted on the most needy geographical areas and beneficiaries. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should provide information on: - how it intends to improve the targeting and cost-efficiency of forestry measures within rural development policy and a timetable for the completion of the accreditation process for the paying agencies in the new Member States; - how it intends to work with the Member States to improve the verification of agri-environment expenditure. Amendment 3801 : budget line 19 08 01 01 : European Neighbourhood and Partnership (ENP) financial cooperation with Mediterranean countries Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: According to Special Report 5/2006 of the Court of Auditors, Commission management of MEDA has improved since the early years and can now be considered satisfactory but many projects are still not completed and concrete results remain, after more than 10 years of MEDA, limited. According to Special Report 10/2004 of the Court of Auditors on the devolution of external aid, better indicators of speed and quality of aid delivery are needed and delays in project implementation should be reduced. Given the completely new landscape of implementation of external aid following devolution over the course of the current financial perspective, there is a need to take stock of results before fully authorising the funds requested for external programmes from 2007 and onwards. This is also the case since the Court of Auditors has previously pointed out the need to monitor the costs of devolution to delegations against the results. Appropriations should therefore be placed in reserve until the Commission: - explains the reasons for and indicate the measures taken as regards unfinished projects; - clarifies how the balance between budget support funding, which has been increasing, and traditional project funding is decided; - explains the inter-relationship between devolution of aid programmes to the EC delegations and the trends in expenditure observed. This shall include an analysis of operational vs. administrative costs and the split between headquarters and delegations, including aspects of staff, temporary staff, and other types of support expenditure; - clarifies whether it now considers the working relationship between headquarters and delegations as satisfactory or which additional measures will