The International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006 and the International Tropical Timber Organisation On 27 January 2006 the negotiating conference established under the aegis of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development approved the text of the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006. The 2006 Agreement was negotiated to replace the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994, as extended, which will remain in force until the entry into force of the 2006 Agreement. All EU Member States have expressed their intention to sign, and to contribute as appropriate towards the provisional application of the 2006 Agreement. The 2006 Agreement, concluded between producers and consumers of timber products, is a 10-year agreement and subject to review every five years. The objectives of the 2006 Agreement are, among others, to promote the expansion and diversification of international trade in tropical timber from sustainable managed and legally harvested forests and to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber producing forests by providing an effective framework for consultation, international cooperation and policy development among all members with regard to all relevant aspects of the world timber economy. The agreement identifies ways to ensure a credible licensing scheme as a measure to that only timber products that are legally produced enter the market, http://www.itto.int/about_itto/ and confirms the very existence and operating mechanisms of the International Tropical Timber Organisation (ITTO), established by the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1983. More than 80% of the producers and importers of tropical timber products are members of the organisation and contracting parties to the ITTA. http://www.itto.int/about_itto/ The EU's additional measures to combat illegal logging In order to address the growing problem of illegal logging the EU introduced in 2003 an Action Plan for the Forest Law Enforcement, Governance and Trade (FLEGT). The Action plans of FLEGT set out measures to combat illegal logging as well as to develop multilateral partnerships designed to raise awareness of the negative effects of illegal logging. The cornerstone and external face of FLEGT is the Voluntary Partnership Agreement (VPA), a bilateral agreement that the EU negotiates with individual countries that export timber. VPA signatory parties commit to promote better governance and traceability mechanisms along the supply chain. Under the VPA, timber monitoring mechanisms are introduced to verify the legality of the timber exported to the EU. Thus far, the EU has signed VPAs with Cameroon, Congo (Brazzaville) and Ghana. A. Attah/F. Ioras/I.V. Abrudan/ J. Ratnasingam: " The Voluntary Partnership Agreement: the Ghanaian and Malaysian experience", in: International Forestry Review, Vol. 11, No. 3, pp. 311-319; Chris Beeko / Camilla Adelle: " The Implementation Of The EU’s Voluntary Partnership Agreement Initiative To Combat Illegal Logging : Reflections From The Supply Side", in: Studia Diplomatica, Vol. LXII: 2009, No. 4, pp. 173. Negotiations with the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Gabon, Indonesia, Liberia, Malaysia and Vietnam are underway. On 20 October 2010, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 995/2010 laying down the obligations of operators who place timber and timber products on the market. OJ L 295, 12.11.2010, p. 23. It prohibits the placing