of 13 and 14 March 2008. . Notwithstanding the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership’s disappointing track record, particularly at multilateral and sub-regional level, this cooperation structure was familiar to our partners, unlike the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) launched in 2004. Although the Barcelona Process was politically deadlocked, it was active at a technical level. A number of states’ economies received a considerable boost from its financial instruments (MEDA, ENPI, FEMIP), cooperation and micro-cooperation programmes and bilateral association agreements. In terms of culture and education, programmes were set up in areas such as cultural heritage conservation (EuroMed Heritage), the promotion of youth exchanges (Erasmus Mundus), the exhibition of Euro-Mediterranean audiovisual productions (Euromed Audiovisual II) and dialogue between cultures (Anna Lindh Foundation). In addition, efforts –albeit cautious – were made in the area of sub-regional integration, with the signing of the Agadir agreement. On the political front, the partnership’s regional dimension was maintained through ministerial meetings (on foreign affairs and specific sectors) and meetings of senior officials, which made it possible to establish regular dialogue. Accordingly, it is understandable that the launch of the ENP, with its accepted bilateral dimension and its three stated concepts (conditionality, ownership and selective differentiation), may have been perceived – and not only on the southern shore of the Mediterranean – as diluting the European Union’s commitment to partnership and abandoning Euro-Mediterranean regional goals See the Jäätteenmäki, Tannock and Napoletano reports. . The UfM consequently offers a second chance in terms of the regional and multilateral dimensions of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, provided that it builds on the achievements of the Barcelona Process. b. Political tensions and regional conflicts in the Mediterranean must not hinder tangible progress towards sectoral and multilateral cooperation . The regional context in which the UfM is taking shape continues to be characterised primarily by political conflicts and tensions, compounded by the events of 11 September 2001 and the war in Iraq, which have fuelled a crisis of confidence on both sides. These conflicts have done a great deal to hinder the establishment of the UfM since the Paris Summit of July 2008, contributing to the cancellation of ministerial meetings and to institutional paralysis. An immediate lesson must be drawn from these difficulties: the UfM ’ s main purpose is not to resolve long-standing conflicts between some of its members . Unless a responsible and constructive spirit is shown by the various stakeholders, it will be difficult to establish the UfM and ensure its subsequent development. It is through the implementation of major integration projects that the UpM will help to develop a climate of trust conducive to pursuing common security goals in a spirit of solidarity and peace. Blocking such projects, on the other hand, would lead to a failure with far-reaching implications. c. The UfM ’ s two innovations – its institutional set-up (co-presidency, joint permanent committee and secretariat) and operational focus (integration projects) – must function effectively and transparently. One of the prerequisites for the UfM’s future success is to ensure that its operation is easily understood by as many players as possible (businesses, universities, trade unions,