of adopted acts 1. The text of acts adopted jointly by Parliament and the Council shall be signed by the President and by the Secretary-General, once it has been verified that all the procedures have been duly completed. 2. Acts adopted jointly by Parliament and the Council in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the EC Treaty shall indicate the nature of the relevant act followed by the serial number, by the date of its adoption and by an indication of its subject matter. 3. Acts adopted jointly by Parliament and the Council shall contain the following: (a) 'The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union'; (b) a reference to the provisions under which the act is adopted, preceded by the words 'Having regard to'; (c) a citation containing a reference to proposals submitted, opinions obtained and consultations held; (d) a statement of the reasons on which the act is based, introduced by the word 'Whereas'; (e) a phrase such as 'have adopted this Regulation' or 'have adopted this Directive' or 'have adopted this Decision' or 'have decided as follows', followed by the body of the act. 4. Acts shall be divided into articles, if appropriate grouped into chapters and sections. 5. The last article of an act shall specify the date of entry into force, where that date is before or after the twentieth day following publication. 6. The last article of an act shall be followed by: - the appropriate formulation, according to the relevant provisions of the Treaty, as to its applicability; - 'Done at...', followed by the date on which the act was adopted; - 'For the European Parliament The President', 'For the Council The President', followed by the name of the President of Parliament and of the President-in-Office of the Council when the act is adopted. 7. The acts referred to above shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union by the Secretaries-General of Parliament and the Council. CHAPTER 7 BUDGETARY PROCEDURES Rule 69 General Budget Implementing procedures for examination of the General Budget of the European Union and supplementary budgets, in accordance with the financial provisions of the Treaties establishing the European Communities, shall be adopted by resolution of Parliament and annexed to these Rules See Annex IV. . Rule 70 Discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the budget The provisions concerning the implementing procedures for the decision on the granting of discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget in accordance with the financial provisions of the Treaties establishing the European Communities and the Financial Regulation are attached to these Rules as an annex See Annex V. . This annex shall be adopted pursuant to Rule 202(2). Rule 71 Other discharge procedures The provisions governing the procedure for discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the budget shall likewise apply to: - the procedure for discharge to the President of the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget of the European Parliament; -