that a "£50m bagatelle" was, in fact, a £1.5 billion terminal disaster. " WE58, page 7-10. Mr. NASSIM specified in WE7 several alleged failures of regulators " to fully assess the risks inherent in Equitable Life's policies and to intervene accordingly : - From 1973 onwards the regulators failed to react to ELAS making no explicit reservation for its increasingly dominant bonus form (terminal bonus), and did not examine the position from the realistic aspect required under a proper or reasonable interpretation of PRE; - Despite contemporary informed actuarial comment the regulators failed to scrutinise the “With Profits Without Mystery (WPWM)” actuarial and insurance paradigm. Had they done so, they would necessarily have discovered that it was in essence a rationalisation for dispersal of its assets, and running a with-profits fund on an intermittently negative technical solvency gap. Under the WPWM paradigm there was no prudently equitable assurance, or real prospect of fulfilling policyholders’ reasonable expectations; - From 1987 onwards the regulators allowed a with-profits fund to operate on a mostly negative technical solvency gap which betokened liability for present and future policyholders rather than profit; - The regulators generally failed to appreciate the effects of conflicts of interest between the Society’s private and corporate/institutional clients, and the GAD’s position in recommending the Society as a civil service institutional pension scheme provider". In his statement, Mr. SLATER (WE34) claimed that over more than a decade, the Regulators failed to fully acknowledge the potential danger of Equitable Life's practice of " voting bonuses in excess of the investment returns actually achieved and the similarly long history of understating liabilities ." In his oral testimony, Mr. SEYMOUR (H7) claimed that by not accumulating funds to cover for future bonuses during the years the financial markets performed well, Equitable Life had de facto been supporting its liabilities by functioning like a pyramid selling scheme without the regulator taking notice of it. " ELAS was declaring bonuses to show a higher level of performance than the competition in order to bring in new funds to cover its immediate outgoings. It was not maintaining a promised reserve fund ... The regulator could easily have determined the existence of a pyramid scheme together with the absence of reserves and taken remedial action as required by the directive. This was essential, particularly as the declared presence of a reserve fund was a key selling point throughout the Community." WE-CONF23 also accused the UK Regulators of negligence in recognizing and failure to react to the GAR risk, stating that " any diligent investigation would have revealed the absence of a GAR provision. The fact that the regulators did not act to close down Equitable Life or enforce a substantial reconstruction encouraged the directors to do nothing and thus compounded the losses eventually suffered by those who held policies on 16 July 2001 ." In H5 Mr. BAYLISS stated that "there was no doubt that ... in the new regulatory regime of the FSA, the returns were not adequate in terms of explaining the true situation or potential liabilities that hid