WRITTEN QUESTION E-0725/06 by Charles Tannock (PPE‑DE) , Rihards Pīks (PPE‑DE) , Marianne Mikko (PSE) , Alfred Gomolka (PPE‑DE) and John Purvis (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (24 February 2006) Subject: Deficiency of the rule of law in Moldova As a result of in camera proceedings Valery Pasat, Moldova's former Defence Minister, was recently sentenced to 10 years in a hard-labour penal camp by a court in Chisinau. Charges of malfeasance related to the sale of21 MIG-29 fighter aircraft were allegedly not supported by prima facie evidence. Moreover, the secret dedicated Moldovan Court appears to have refused to hear evidence favourable to the accused, particularly depositions made with US Government approval by Mr. E. Wayne Merry and the US Ambassador to Moldova at the time of the sale. Mr Merry, the US official responsible for the purchase of MIG-29s under the Nunn-Lugar program, makes serious allegations in a letter to the Financial Times of 4.2.2006. He clearly states in his letter that the transaction was entirely fair, that the competing tender for USD 55 million was phantom and that the final decision to sell was made by the then Moldovan President Petru Lucinschi who has faced no charges to date. This matter was previously raised on 21.6.2005 in a question to the Commission (E‑2192/05) and in the answer of 27.7.2005 an undertaking was made by the Commission to closely follow developments. It is worth recalling that at the time of his arrest Mr Pasat was employed by the Russian Unified Energy Systems company and was an active figure in the opposition Democratic Moldova party. The conduct and secrecy surrounding the case suggests that the government of Moldova has engaged in Soviet-style interference with legal due process in order to achieve a politically motivated conviction without legal transparency. An appeal has been launched. However, it must pass through two higher appeal courts first in Moldova before reaching the European Court of Human Rights. Mr Pasat's lawyers have alleged that the hearings are being delayed by bureaucratic means. Given the poor conditions of his imprisonment, Mr Pasat may suffer irreparable damage to his health before the final verdict is reached. Is the Commission of the opinion the trial was conducted in a way acceptable for a country which is in the OSCE, Council of Europe, and has recently endorsed an ENP action plan with the EU? What action does the Commission propose to ensure justice prevails?