rating of structured finance products. The analysts responsible for the original rating shall be different from those responsible for monitoring the rating. Amendment 15 2 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 3 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. A credit rating agency shall not issue a credit rating or shall withdraw an existing credit rating in the following cases : 3. A credit rating agency shall not issue a credit rating or shall , in the case of an existing credit rating , immediately disclose its relationship or its employees´ relationship with the rated entity affecting such an existing credit rating where : Amendment 15 3 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 3 – point c a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ca) an analyst who participated in determining a credit rating, or a person who approv ed a credit ratings, has recently been employed or has had another significant business relationship with the rated entity, which may cause or may be perceived to caus e a conflict of interests; Justification Consistency with the IOSCO code should be ensured. Amendment 15 4 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 3 – point c b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (cb) a credit rating is not based on sufficient and reliable data or the available information is not sufficient for a reliable credit rating to be given; Amendment 15 5 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 3 – point c c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (cc) an analyst who participated in determining a credit rating, or a person who approv ed a credit rating, has had any relationship with the rated entity or any related entity thereof , which may cause or may be perceived to caus e a conflict of interests. Justification Consistency with the IOSCO code should be ensured. Amendment 15 6 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 3 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Where a credit rating already exists, the credit rating agency shall immediately review and, if appropriate, revise the existing credit rating in accordance with point 1. Justification Withdrawal of existing ratings in not an appropriate response and could ultimately damage investors. Where doubt emerges over the quality of information that supports the current rating or complexity of the financial instrument appropriate disclosure and rating review would be the most appropriate response. Amendment 15 7 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section B – point 4 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment A credit rating agency may provide services other than issuance of credit ratings, hereinafter "ancillary services". A credit rating agency shall determine what it considers as ancillary services. It shall ensure that the provision of ancillary services does not present conflicts of interest with its credit rating activity. A credit rating agency may provide services other than issuance of credit ratings,