would have to be made if the option were exercised.” Regulations 65 to 75 prescribe more specific criteria on the determination of the amount of liabilities: Regulation 65 prescribes, in line with the 3LD that, in principle, long-term liabilities must be determined separately for each contract by a prospective calculation. The regulation allows the exceptional use of appropriate approximations and generalisation and the use of the retrospective method, subjecting both exceptions to the same conditions as those prescribed by the Directive. The regulation prescribes that, where necessary, additional amounts must be set aside for general risks not individualised and also prescribes that the method of calculation must not be subject to arbitrary changes from year to year. Regulation 69 on rates of interest to be used in calculating the present value of future payments by or to an insurance company sets out prudential standards equivalent to those laid down by the Directive. The same is true of Regulations 68 and 71 on allowances for expenses. In line with the Directive, domestic legislation requires the company to disclose such information to the competent authority as part of the requested information to support an application for an authorisation to operate. Further information on this is found in the actuary’s annual valuation report, which is available on request to policyholders and shareholders and open to public inspection at the appropriate Companies House. Matching rule obligation : The 3LD prevents Member States from requiring companies to localise their assets in a particular Member State . It also allows the home Member State to permit relaxations of the localisation of assets rules. UK legislation does include regulations which, under particular circumstances, do require assurance undertakings to localise some or all of their assets in a particular place. Firstly, Regulation 31 of the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994 prescribes that the assets that cover liabilities in sterling must be held in the EC and the assets that cover liabilities in any other currency must be held in the EC or in the country of that currency. Secondly, Regulation 33 of the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994 prescribes some asset localisation obligations for non-EC companies, whose head office is not in an EFTA State, in respect of their assets representing a UK margin of solvency maintained under section 32(2)(b) of the Act. Thirdly, sections 39 and 40 of the Act afford the Secretary of State, under certain circumstances, the power to require a UK company to localise in the EC assets equal to the whole or a specified proportion of the amount of its domestic liabilities and to impose some kind of custody over them. According to section 37(3), those powers are not exercisable unless the company has failed to satisfy certain obligations to which it is or was subject, including the failure to determine the value of its liabilities in accordance with the regulations. Regulation 27 prescribes that the company must hold sufficient assets in a particular currency to cover the company’s liabilities in that particular currency only if the company’s liabilities in that particular currency exceed 5% of its