the ILO in June 2011 ‘the well-documented allegations and broad consensus among the United Nations bodies, the UNICEF, the representative organizations of employers and workers and NGOs stating that, despite the legal commitments made by the Government of Uzbekistan to eradicate forced child labour, in practice, year after year an estimated number of 0.5 to 1.5 million school-aged children are still forced to take part in the hazardous work in the cotton harvest for up to three months each year’, K. whereas schools are closed during the Autumn harvest period, hampering education, L. whereas children, their teachers and parents risk punishment for disobedience, M. whereas the Government of Uzbekistan stated that ‘it is traditional for older children to assist in family businesses’ and that 'the allegations concerning widespread forced labour in agriculture are unfounded’ 2011 ILO Report of the Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations, page 429, ( http://www.ilo.org/wcmsp5/groups/public/@ed_norm/@relconf/documents/meetingdocument/wcms_151556.pdf ) , N. whereas independent international observers have gathered evidence of forced labour and in particular forced child labour as a systematic and organised practice involving pressure on teachers and families with the participation of the police and security forces, O. whereas so far the Government of Uzbekistan has refused access to independent monitoring missions the purpose of which was to bring out the facts and provide information on the duration of the Autumn harvest period, the working health conditions of students, their ages and where relevant the risk of punishments for disobedience, P. whereas according to the Commission Union textile and clothing exports to Uzbekistan account for 0.05% of Union textile and clothing exports, Q. whereas the Union is one of the main importers of cotton from Uzbekistan, estimates of which range from importing 6 Source: European Commission DG Trade and -23% http://unctad.org/infocomm/anglais/cotton/market.htm of Uzbek cotton exports over the past ten years, R. whereas, on the basis of the principles and objectives of the Union's external action, the Union has the moral responsibility to use its leverage, as one of the main trading partners and a major importer of cotton from Uzbekistan, to stop the use of forced child labour in this country; whereas, t herefore , the P rotocol cannot be treated as a purely technical agreement, as long as human rights concerns, such as forced child labour, are raised specifically with regard to cotton harvest , S. whereas fair and open international trade requires competition on a level playing-field and the economic factors determining the pricing of products exported to the Union should not be distorted by practices contrary to the basic principles of human rights and the rights of the child, T. whereas many textiles retailers, including European ones, have decided that they will no longer buy cotton from Uzbekistan and will notify all of their suppliers of this commitment, International Labor Rights Forum, http://www.laborrights.org/stop- c hild-forced-labor/cotton-campaign/company-response-to-forced-child-labor-in-uzbek-cotton ) U. whereas the Council stated in its conclusions on child labour of 14 June 2010 that it is fully aware of the role and responsibilities of the Union in the struggle towards ending child labour, V. whereas