threshold for support should therefore not be set too high. The requirement of one quarter of Member States (i.e. 7 of the current number of 27 EU Member States) is an amply sufficient expression of a common EU interest. At the same time, it is in line with other provisions of the Treaties, such as Article 76 TFEU. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7) It is appropriate to fix a minimum age for supporting a citizens' initiative. This should be set as the age at which citizens are entitled to vote in the European Parliament elections . (7) It is appropriate to fix a minimum age for supporting a citizens' initiative. This should be set at 16 years of age . Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives, it should be mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary statements of support from citizens ; proposals that are abusive or devoid of seriousness should not be registered and the Commission should reject the registration of proposals which would be manifestly against the values of the Union. The Commission should deal with registration in accordance with the general principles of good administration. (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives, it should be mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary statements of support from citizens . This website should give a detailed explanation of the formal and legal requirements for an initiative to be successful. It would undoubtedly serve as an educational tool enabling citizens to make their democratic voice heard. Proposals that are abusive or devoid of seriousness should not be registered and the Commission should reject the registration of proposals which would be manifestly against the values of the Union. The Commission should deal with registration in accordance with the general principles of good administration. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10) It is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected in paper form as well as online. Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia, that the person can be identified and that the data are securely stored. For this purpose, the Commission should be required to set out detailed technical specifications for online collection systems. (10) It is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected in paper form as well as online. However, in order to simplify the procedure and to make it more accessible, online collection should be encouraged. Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia, that the person can be identified and that the data are securely stored. Citizens' confidence in the citizens' initiative scheme will be one of