in their policies, was favourable." Client relations would thus have been good even in 2000 as " by approaching the whole issue during that period right up until the House of Lords ruling in July 2000, we had very little difficulty and very little problem with our clients accepting the explanation we were giving." Allegations of knowingly misleading clients or possibly 'glossing over' unpleasant facts were equally and vehemently denied by Mr. LLOYD: "I do not believe there was ever a point when I questioned whether I was pushing or selling something that I should not be selling, and I do not believe that any of my colleagues felt that way either ... I can tell you that, in terms of the information we were given, we were never ever told: ‘you can say this, but you must not say that’, or ‘here is the true position, but you must not let people know this’. That was never ever the case ... I did buy the line that the Society knew what it was doing, knew how to run the business and did have a successful working model. So there was nothing to gloss over. I never felt at any point from that stage right up until 8 December 2000, the day it closed, that I was glossing over or keeping from my clients information that I had somehow discovered and was not divulging ... Certainly I never knowingly misled any of my clients and I do not believe any of the Society’s representatives would have continued selling contracts that they knew were misleading. I do not believe that to be the case. I think that, in hindsight, we were selling the with-profits fund in a way that, from what we now know, was reckless both for income drawdown and for with-profit annuities. It was a damaged proposition, but we did not know that. It was damaged because of the true nature of the liabilities in that fund, but we did not know that." Mr. LLOYD admitted, however, that the risk profile of the products they were selling did not accurately reflect the reality, although the sales force had been apparently unaware of this: " I think the biggest mistake by far was the question of how we were allowed to sell the with-profits fund as low-to-medium risk when it almost certainly should have had a warning plastered all over it from about 1998 onwards ... I did not think it at the time, but in retrospect and hearing all the points being made I think we should have had a warning. The board should have been warning our clients that our with-profits fund should not be treated as low-to-medium risk, because there were issues that were unresolved and while they were unresolved, if anything, we should have withdrawn it ... With hindsight, I believe I was misled about the risks associated with the with-profits fund. I believe that now, I most certainly did not at the time ... I believe that something should have been done to prevent further clients –