Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (15 July 2011) The Commission is aware of the problems in the marine environment of the Mediterranean in general and its pollution in particular. The Commission collaborates closely with the Mediterranean Member States for assisting them in implementing the EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) (2008/56/EC OJ L 164, 25.6.2008. ), which aims at addressing the various concerns mentioned by the Honourable Member. The directive requires Member States to take measures to achieve good environmental status in EU marine waters by 2020. It is expected that the initial assessment of the marine environment, which the EU Member States must submit by July 2012, will confirm and describe in detail the challenges mentioned by the Honourable Member. This assessment and the environmental targets that will be set by Member States will pave the way for elaborating appropriate monitoring programmes and programmes of measures in accordance with the directive. The Commission agrees with the Honourable Member that efficient cooperation is necessary and this need is reflected in the EU Marine Directive, which calls explicitly for regional collaboration. In the Mediterranean this regional collaboration takes place in the context of the Barcelona Convention for the protection of the marine and coastal environment of the Mediterranean, a multilateral environmental agreement under the auspices of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The EU, along with 21 countries that have a Mediterranean Sea shoreline, is a contracting party to this Convention and is represented by the Commission. The Mediterranean countries in the context of the Barcelona Convention have adopted and implemented during the last decades a number of monitoring programmes, strategies and action plans to reduce pollution and preserve biodiversity, some of which have a legally binding character. The recently adopted and gradually implemented ecosystem approach to the management of human activities within the Barcelona Convention follows a conceptual approach similar to the EU Marine Directive and is expected to provide coherence and a new impetus to the abovementioned activities, thus increasing their efficiency and sustainability. The Commission is also funding several research projects from the Sixth and Seventh Framework Programme, aiming to study impacts of climate induced changes on the Mediterranean Basin. One of them, the CIRCE project (‘Climate change and impact research — The Mediterranean environment’) has carried out an extensive assessment of climate change impacts, including on biodiversity, and identified mitigation and adaptation strategies. The resulting report will be made publicly available by the end of 2011. Furthermore, the recently started project CLIM-RUN (‘Climate local information in the Mediterranean region: Responding to user needs’) will evaluate the vulnerability of the Mediterranean related to climate change and will provide the information and services in response to user needs such as coastal management and tourism. Research projects like SESAME (Mediterranean marine ecosystems), and PEGASO (integrated coastal zone management in the Mediterranean) by bringing together the scientific communities around this basin revealed to be an effective instrument in strengthening regional collaboration. Furthermore, management measures for sustainable fisheries taken at EU level and in the multilateral framework of the