Question for written answer E-004721/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Kriton Arsenis (S&D) (23 May 2011) Subject: Relaunching EU‑Mercosur negotiations Negotiations to conclude a free trade agreement between the EU and the Mercosur trade bloc began in 1995 but were suspended in October 2004 without any agreement having been reached. On 4 May 2010, the Commission decided to resume the negotiations. Since then, five rounds of negotiations have been completed, while a sixth had been scheduled for early July 2011. At the recent EU Agriculture Council meeting on 14 April, 10 Member States stressed the risks of further opening the EU market to products, especially beef, from Mercosur countries. These risks have now been confirmed by a recent study by Copa-Cogeca: the conclusion of such an agreement is expected to jeopardise millions of jobs in rural areas of the EU. Moreover, the impact assessment study on sustainability stated, inter alia , that a free trade agreement between EU and Mercosur would lead, in Brazil alone, to the conversion of 55 million hectares of Amazon virgin rainforest (11 % of the current cover) into agricultural land, especially pastureland. There is a clear need for the EU to adopt, in negotiations with Mercosur countries, a balanced approach, which on the one hand does not harm the EU agricultural sector, and, on the other, does not have an adverse environmental impact on Mercosur countries. Given the above, will the Commission say: What measures has it proposed during the negotiations in May so as to avoid the expected adverse consequences for the natural environment in the Mercosur countries in the event that a trade agreement is concluded? In its recent answer to Question E‑000893/2011, the Commission maintains that it has made clear to Mercosur, from the very beginning of the negotiations that, for some agricultural products, it is unable fully to liberalise trade with Mercosur. What provisions are being made in the current negotiations in respect of sensitive products, in particular beef?