countries agreed in Marrakech to initiate negotiations on services on condition that full flexibility would be granted with regard to the inclusion or exclusion of any service sector in or from the negotiations, GG. whereas the industrialised countries own 90% of all patents and whereas, in the case of pharmaceuticals, this is frequently linked to the difficulty in addressing public health problems, HH. whereas increased trade in services between the developed countries and the developing countries provides the opportunity for an important transfer of know-how, which may also improve access to basic services , communications and a functional banking and insurance sector, II. whereas 70 % of the 1.3 billion of people living in poverty are women; whereas, throughout the world, women are denied the necessary opportunities to improve their economic and social condition, such as property or inheritance rights, or access to education or jobs, while at the same time women have the added responsibility of caring for children and the household, JJ. whereas women in most countries do not have the same access as men to education, training, credit, technology and information, which are necessary to enable them to take advantage of the new economic opportunities arising from the expansion in international trade, KK. whereas the impact on women of policies to expand trade depends upon women’s position within their local, regional and national economy as well as their role in the social reproduction of family welfare and care services and whereas women’s employment remains the key to economic independence and has a profound impact on the position of women in society as a whole, LL. whereas in many developing countries women from the lowest social strata earn their living primarily from small-scale farming or by working in the textile and clothing industries producing goods for export, MM.whereas when women have more control over the use to which the family income is put, more is invested in their children’s education and in health care and food, which helps to reduce poverty, NN. whereas wealth creation is vital for social progress and the EU is the world’s largest exporter and the second largest importer, and its influence within the WTO through its bilateral agreements shapes the contours of international trade policy and rules; 1. Warns that the global costs of the failure of poverty eradication are enormous in terms of human suffering, instability, conflict, recurrent emergencies, international crime, the drugs trade, economic stagnation, clandestine migration and premature death, 2 . Considers that trade can help to create concrete opportunities for developing countries and in particular for LDCs, but that it can actually lead to the eradication of poverty and to the delivery of development only if accompanied by good-quality domestic policies; 3. Recognises that the principle of free movement of goods and services may be an effective way of helping poor countries to develop, on condition that their problems and interests are specifically taken into account; 4. Calls on the Commission to consider as a priority in its international agenda the enforcement of trade rules and of the right to development,