Joint answer given by Mrs Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-5087/08 , E-5088/08 (6 November 2008) The Commission rejects the accusations made by Greenpeace/Global 2000/PAN Europe in the studies referred to. The calculations made by the organisations are in part repetitions of a first crude screening carried out by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and published in March 2007: http://www.efsa.europa.eu/EFSA/efsa_locale-1178620753812_1178620776373.htm EFSA states in the conclusions and recommendations of that report (p. 79) that ‘if the exposure calculation exceeds the ADI ADI: acceptable daily intake, the amount of chemical (expressed as mg per kg bodyweight per day) that can be ingested over lifetime (World Health Organisation (WHO), 1997). or the ARfD ARfD: acute reference dose, the amount of chemical (expressed as mg per kg bodyweight per day) that can be ingested in a short period e.g. one meal (WHO, 1997). it cannot be concluded that the Temporary Maximum Residue Levels (MRLs) are unsafe. Further refined calculations based on more realistic exposures scenarios should be performed’. From March 2007 until March 2008 the Commission, the Member States and EFSA have performed such more realistic calculations using additional information submitted by the Member States. This information was systematically requested by the Commission when the first crude calculation showed exceedence of the ADI or ARfD. Such information comprised among others, data on processing of products that are not consumed raw (sugarbeets, cereals, coffeebeans), distribution of the residues between the peel and the flesh (banana, pineapple) and more precise information on the expected residues. In addition, new, updated information on the toxicology became available through the plant protection products evaluation programme carried out in the EU. The differences between the screening results presented by Greenpeace/Global2000/PAN and the final safety assessment used by the Commission when establishing the EU Temporary MRLs can be explained by the fact that this additional information has not been used in the calculations done by these organisations. The measures that the Commission takes to guarantee consumer safety of vegetables and fruit are the following. The Commission only fixes MRLs when these are safe for all consumer groups in the EU, according to the EFSA model. The Commission updates the MRLs as soon as new information becomes available. In July 2008, the Commission asked EFSA to update the risk assessment for 15 pesticides for which new information on the toxicology has become available. Since 2005, EFSA has been working at the request of the Commission on the development of methodology for cumulative risk assessment (the risk of exposure to several pesticides with a similar mode of action). As soon as it is available, the Commission will use this methodology when setting MRLs. The Commission does not agree with the claim that consumers will be exposed to more pesticides due to the harmonisation. The harmonisation was based in the first instance on the existing situation of pesticide use in each Member State, which was reflected in more than 20 lists of national MRLs. For many crop-pesticide combinations these MRLs differred among the Member States, despite the free circulation of agricultural