governments also knew how that should act. She was not a great enthusiast for referendums, but she was clear that it was for each Member State to legitimise a treaty in its own way. “The starting point is the existing treaty, I am sceptical about getting consensus on something else,” she said. It was paradoxical that a treaty which increased clarity, participation and subsidiarity had been opposed by the very people who argued in favour of such causes, she said. Those in favour of further enlargement of the EU had to realise that scepticism about the constitutional process would prevent Europe from moving forward with enlargement. She asked the sceptics to think again. On climate change and energy, she said many of Mr Barroso's proposals were absolutely correct, and that she would work to get a specific response to them from the 8-9 March meeting of the European Council. A joint energy policy was, she said, a step in the direction of the constitution's proposals. While the EU had been founded around coal and steel, the key issues now were energy efficiency, energy security and energy foreign policy. With a view to climate change, she called for more support for renewables, energy efficiency and biofuels. She expressed her personal support for nuclear power, while noting that there would be differing views on this. On the whole matter of energy policy, she said: “We need to act together, not go it alone.” Turning to economics and social policy, she said Europe would not be Europe without the social welfare state, but it would take hard work to preserve the achievements in this field. “Our experience in Germany is that the way forward is through reconciling capital and labour, not playing one off against the other.” On justice and home affairs matters, she acknowledged that it was difficult to reach the right balance between data protection and exchange of information. She was not in line with the ALDE group on this, she said, but there it was an essential debate. Regarding bureaucracy and better regulation, she said the Member States knew what they had to do, but also said that the acquis communautaire had expanded over the years, and it was time to see if some of it could be modernised or merged: “Europe must learn from its bureaucratic past and become more attractive,” she said. Commission President Barroso's response In his response to the debate, Mr BARROSO agreed with those who had called for Europe to speak with a single voice on external energy relations, but “to do this we cannot go on speaking with 27 voices internally.” An integrated energy market was essential to have a coherent energy policy. As well as being important in itself, energy was a powerful driver for the European project, as it had been at the time of the Coal and Steel Community or the Euratom treaty. Moreover, “climate change is one of the most important challenges of the 21st century – perhaps the most important.” On constitutional matters, he said no-one was really proposing a centralised