registration is only aimed at deciding whether a European citizens' initiative is on the table or not. If it is so, organisers do not have to comply with any other requirements (admissibility, etc.) but they are free to exercise their right under the Treaty, namely to collect signatures in favour of an initiative. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10) It is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected in paper form as well as online . Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia , that the person can be identified and that the data are securely stored. For this purpose, the Commission should be required to set out detailed technical specifications for online collection systems. (10) In order to put modern technology to good use as a tool of participatory democracy, it is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected online as well as in paper form. Online collection systems should have adequate security features in place in order to ensure, inter alia , that the person signs only once and that the data are securely collected and stored. The detailed technical specifications should be worked out at an expert level and be regularly adapted to technical developments; the power to adopt detailed technical specifications for online collection systems should therefore be delegated to the Commission . The requirements in respect of those technical specifications should not, however, present unjustifiable obstacles for organisers wishing to use online collection systems. Justification This amendment is aimed at giving the reasons for the provisions and justifies the use of delegated acts. Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10a) The statements of support should be collected in a way that is citizen-friendly and which incorporates the necessary safeguards for data protection. At the same time, it should not impose an excessive burden on the organisers. Amendment 14 Proposal for a regulation Recital 13 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (13) It is appropriate that the Commission should take a decision on the admissibility of proposed initiatives at a sufficiently early stage. The organiser should therefore request such a decision after it has collected 300.000 statements of support for the proposed initiative from signatories coming from at least three Member States. deleted Justification The admissibility check is abolished. Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14) The Commission should, within a period of two months after receiving a request from the organiser, adopt a decision on its admissibility. A proposed citizens' initiative should be considered admissible if it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission and concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties. deleted Justification The admissibility check is abolished. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) It is appropriate to provide