given an explicit mandate to a legal counsellor who was chosen, appointed and paid by the person concerned or who was appointed and paid by the State in accordance with its national law applicable to the rights of the defence, and was indeed defended by that counsellor during the trial; or Amendment 41 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 4 – point 2 Framework Decision 2006/783/JHA Article 8 – paragraph 2 – point e – subpoint ii (ii) after being served with the confiscation order rendered in absentia and being expressly informed about the right to a retrial and to be present at that trial : (ii) after being personally served with the confiscation order and being expressly informed, in a language which he or she understood , of the right to a retrial or to an appeal , in which he or she would have the right to participate, at which the merits of the case, including fresh evidence, would be (re)examined and which could lead to the original decision being quashed : – expressly stated that he or she does not contest the confiscation order; – expressly stated that he or she did not contest the confiscation order; or or – did not request a retrial in the applicable timeframe which was of at least […] days ; – did not request a retrial or an appeal in the applicable timeframe , which shall be a minimum of 10 days and a maximum of 15 days. Amendment 42 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 4 – point 3 Framework Decision 2006/783/JHA Annex – box j – introductory part and points 1 and 2 (j) Indicate if the decision was rendered in absentia : (j) Indicate if the person appeared in person at the trial which led to the confiscation order : 1. ? No, it was not 1. ? Yes, the person appeared in person at the trial which led to the confiscation order. 2. ? Yes, it was. If you have answered yes, please confirm that: 2. ? No, the person did not appear in person at the trial which led to the confiscation order. If you answered "no" to this question, please indicate if: Amendment 43 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 4 – point 3 Framework Decision 2006/783/JHA Annex – box j – point 2 - subpoint 2.1 2.1 the person was summoned in person or informed in accordance with the national law of the issuing Member State through a competent representative and in due time , of the scheduled date and place of the hearing which led to