throughout the EU. Areas in which the rapporteur considers it appropriate to provide rules specific to the SPE are: the liability of executive directors, the consequences of defective resolutions and the consequences of ineffective clauses in the articles of association. Possible criticism by some Member States on the grounds that certain rules laid down in the proposal for a regulation diverge from their national law cannot be seen as convincing. On the contrary, it merely confirms that the proposed regulation is comprehensive. The regulation will not only harmonise national law but create new Community law. Finally, the SPE will not replace existing national forms of company but will merely provide an alternative to them - and only where the existing conditions for establishment are met. Member States can therefore fully maintain their existing law for national companies. 5. Miscellaneous aspects: cross-border component The Commission’s concern to make it possible to establish companies with as little bureaucracy as possible finds particularly clear expression in the absence of any cross-border component. The rapporteur supports this liberal approach. Nevertheless, he is aware of the technical and legal provisions of the EC Treaty, according to which the EU legislator may generally act only where there is a cross-border component. On the other hand, the requirement for a cross-border component must not be used as a pretext for hindering the creation of companies. The rapporteur is therefore proposing that the conditions relating to the cross-border component should be defined as widely as possible. A corresponding reference in the business object, the fact that founding members are resident in at least two Member States or the fact that the registered office and central administration are in different Member States should suffice. The committee followed the rapporteur's compromise proposal opting for a cross-border component through a corresponding cross-border intention of business objective or the fact of having as its objective significant activity in more than one Member State, or the fact that its registered office and its central administration or principal place of business are in different Member States, or the fact of having subsidiaries in different Member States, or the fact that it is a subsidiary of a parent company which is registered in another Member State. 3.12.2008 OPINION of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for the Committee on Legal Affairs on the proposal for a Council regulation on the Statute for a European private company ( COM(2008)0396 – C6‑0123/2008 – 2008/0130(CNS) ) Rapporteur: Donata Gottardi SHORT JUSTIFICATION The Commission proposal for a European Private Company Statute (Societas Privata Europaea – SPE) is welcome as it offers possibilities for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to expand their business across Member States in the European Union. The proposal forms part of a package of measures designed to assist SMEs, referred to as the Small Business Act for Europe (SBA). The objective of the SBA is to make it easier for SMEs to do business in the Single Market and consequently to improve their market performance. The SPE is one of the priority initiatives of the Commission's 2008