voluntary pension fund following the entry into force of the new Members’ statute. The discharge resolutions for 2004 and 2005 had stressed that this fund’s activities should be limited, from the start of the next term, to making payments for entitlements already acquired. For this reason, the committee insists that the Working Group (of the Bureau) on the Members’ Statues should respect the decisions taken by Parliament. Discharge – a political process The committee also uses its resolution to stress the political nature of the discharge voted by Parliament. In this context, it aims for both: closer cooperation between Parliament’s Bureau and the Budgetary Control Committee; and better linkage between the budget setting procedure and the discharge process. Finally, the committee welcomes “the firm commitment of [Parliament’s] President to ensure the statute for assistants enters force at the same time as the new Members’ Statute.” United Kingdom and Ireland The committee's report urges the Commission to improve checks in the UK "which did not comply with Community legislation when allocating entitlements and paying Single Payment Scheme (SPS) and rural development aid to landlords for land let to and farmed by lessee farmers". It also calls for better checks in some Member States (Austria, Ireland and the UK) "who have failed to correctly apply certain key elements of the SPS and extended consolidation of entitlements beyond the provisions of the regulation". Budget discharge: background The purpose of the budget discharge procedure is to enable Parliament to make a political appraisal of how the EU budget has been spent and to recommend improvements. The procedure begins each year at the EP when the Court of Auditors presents its Annual Report. Parliament then embarks on its own assessment of the way the budget was used. MEPs seek to ensure that any problems flagged up by the Court of Auditors or in investigations by the Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) are given political prominence and remedied by improvements in the system. Parliament's Rules of Procedure say the Budgetary Control Committee may invite Parliament to grant, postpone or refuse discharge in respect of implementation of the budget. This enables MEPs to express their approval or disapproval of the way EU funds have been spent. The Commission must act upon any comments or recommendations in Parliament's resolution. By granting a discharge through a resolution voted in April, Parliament approves the implementation of the budget in respect of the relevant financial year. If Parliament concludes that there are serious issues to be addressed, it will postpone the granting of discharge. The Commission then has to take swift action to remedy the problems. A refusal to grant discharge has no legal consequences but may be regarded as a serious political sanction . This has happened twice in the past twenty years, first in 1984 and then in December 1998, in the latter case leading to the resignation of the Santer Commission on 15 March 1999. The discharge decision regarding the general budget managed by the Commission concerns by far the largest share of the EU budget, which goes to finance EU policies