In order to obtain evidence that a family relationship exists, Member States may carry out interviews with the applicant and his/her family members if they are already on their territory and conduct other investigations , including DNA tests, that are found necessary. Amendment 37 Article 5, paragraph 2, subparagraph 3 When examining an application concerning the unmarried partner of the applicant, Member States shall consider , as evidence of the family relationship, factors such as a common child, previous cohabitation, registration of the partnership and any other reliable means of proof. When examining an application concerning the unmarried partner of the applicant, Member States shall consider factors such as a common child, previous cohabitation, registration of the partnership and any other reliable means of proof. Amendment 38 Article 5, paragraph 4 4. The competent authorities of the Member State shall give the applicant/family member(s) written notification of the decision as soon as possible and in any event no later than nine months from the date on which the application was lodged. 4. After considering the application the competent authorities of the Member State shall give the applicant written notification of the decision, which must be taken within a maximum period of six months. Reasons shall be given for any decision rejecting the application. In exceptional circumstances linked to the complexity of the examination of the application, the time limit referred to in the first subparagraph may be extended, but shall in no case exceed twelve months. Reasons shall be given for the decision rejecting the application. The consequences of no decision being taken by the end of the period provided for in the first subparagraph shall be determined by the national legislation of the relevant Member State. Amendment 40 Article 6, title (new) Public policy, domestic security and public health Amendment 41 Article 6, paragraph 1 1. The Member States may reject an application for entry and residence of family members on grounds of public policy, domestic security or public health. 1. The Member States may reject an application for entry and residence of one or more family members on grounds of public policy, domestic security or public health. Amendment 42 Article 6, paragraph 2 2. Member States may withdraw or refuse to renew a family member's residence permit on grounds of public policy or domestic security. 2. Member States may withdraw or refuse to renew the residence permit of one or more family members on grounds of public policy or domestic security. Amendment 43 Article 6, paragraph 3 3. The grounds of public policy or domestic security must be based exclusively on the personal conduct of the family member concerned. 3. The grounds of public policy or domestic security must be based exclusively on the personal conduct of one or more of the family members concerned. Amendment 44 Article 6, paragraph 4 4. Renewal of the residence permit may not be withheld and removal from the territory may not be ordered by the competent authority of the Member State concerned on the sole ground of illness or disability suffered after the