court proceedings against ELAS under Section 62 of the Financial Services Act 1986 or for misrepresentation or for negligent advice was, in theory, a possible route for aggrieved policyholders to obtain redress. In practice, however, circumstantial evidence suggests that only few affluent policyholders took this route and consequently reached settlements with the Society, whereas the significant financial risks under the UK legal system prevented the average policyholder from suing the Society. Furthermore, since the main events at ELAS date back to 1998-2000, virtually all aggrieved policyholders are by now time barred under the UK Limitations Act. In practice, therefore, for the vast majority of policyholders, the Financial Ombudsman Service had been the only source of civil justice. VII. Claims against the UK regulator Aggrieved policyholders could, in theory, base their claims on alleged failure of the UK Regulator to protect policyholders by exercising supervision of accounting and provisioning practices and the financial situation of Equitable Life in accordance with UK law. The allegation that the UK regulatory authorities failed in respect of prudential supervision has been put forward by numerous witnesses orally (see for instance Mr LAKE, H1; Mr WEIR, H2; Mr BELLORD, H2; Mr JOSEPHS, H2, Ms KWANTES, H7, Mr SEYMOUR H7, Mr BRAITHWAITE, H11) and in writing (see for instance WE 4, WE 7, WE 8, WE 14, WE 15, WE 36, WE 44, WE 51, WE 52). These are covered in Part III of this report. Some witnesses suggested that the regulator not only failed to fulfil its supervisory functions but also misled policyholders who had approached them in relation to Equitable Life. Mr VINALL, for instance, claims in WE 43 that he contacted the FSA in early 2001 at a time when the solvency problems faced by ELAS became apparent and were widely reported in the press throughout the UK. He asked questions about solvency and reserve levels and claims to have been told by the FSA that there was no reason for concern, when in fact the problems should have been known to the regulator. In his opinion, the FSA have misinformed policyholders. As a result, they stayed with ELAS longer than they would otherwise have done and suffered further losses. Mr VINALL's subsequent complaints to both the FSA itself and the UK Complaints Commissioner were not upheld. The FSA claimed that it was not in a position to assert that there were no problems at ELAS and that there was an onus on consumers to make their own decisions with regard to ELAS (WE 43). It also pointed out that in making judgements about imposing restrictions on firms, the FSA must take into account the wider impact these may have on the market and on consumers generally. Similarly, the Complaints Commissioner noted that regulators have to err on the side of caution when they make judgements. " Hindsight may well show that caution to have been misguided but that does not mean that the initial judgement was ill considered, let alone biased " (WE 43). The Complaints Commissioner further emphasised that the FSA is tightly constrained