News Report : 14-04-2005 Brussels, 14 April 2005 New framework agreement: closer political dialogue between Parliament and Commission At the Conference of Presidents on 14 April, the European Parliament's political group leaders gave the green light to the new framework agreement governing relations between Parliament and the Commission. The agreement still has to be endorsed by the EP Constitutional Affairs Committee, which will begin discussing it next Tuesday, and then formally approved by the full Parliament. Greater political accountability and increased legitimacy for Commissioners as well as closer dialogue between Parliament and Commission are the key points of the new agreement. The first code of conduct between the two institutions dates back to 1990 and was amended twice, in 1995 and 2000. Parliament President Josep Borrell welcomed the completion of the negotiations, saying: "With this agreement, the European Parliament and the Commission have shown that they wish to work in a climate of mutual trust, have an efficient working relationship and be completely transparent vis-à-vis the European public. The roles of the two institutions are now clearly defined for the next five years." Commissioners The framework agreement establishes a code of conduct governing the appointment of Commissioners, changes to their portfolios and any replacements of Commissioners in mid-term. It thereby addresses three politically sensitive issues: the procedure to be used if an individual Commissioner has a conflict of interest, the consequences of a no-confidence vote by Parliament against a Commissioner and the steps to be taken to replace a Commissioner in the middle of his or her term of office. The agreement also lays down new rules for broadening dialogue and improving the flow of information between the two institutions. The Commission will be required to inform Parliament of the membership of any groups of experts who assist it in its legislative work. In parallel, the two institutions will introduce arrangements to protect the confidentiality of any information they send each other. In addition, the Commission is required to provide any assistance needed by MEPs taking part in election monitoring missions outside the EU. Lastly, measures are envisaged to improve the coordination of procedures and the work programmes of both institutions. Press enquiries: Jaume Duch +32 496 599 476 email: jduch@europarl.eu.int