EU strategy, and reorientation towards cohesion objectives is less evident since regional aid has declined, E. whereas the cohesion objective should be strengthened by reinforcing the territorial dimension, F. whereas regional State aid oriented to promoting the economic development of certain disadvantaged regions and economic growth areas takes into account the need for an appropriate increase in the strategic economic competitiveness of the region concerned (Article 87 (3)(c) of the Treaty), G. whereas the Commission should also take into account the total value of State aid per capita in each particular region when evaluating the effects of regional State aids, H. whereas only about 10% of overall State aid is regulated by the draft Regional Aid Guidelines, whereas State aid can give a positive stimulus to economic development in a region lagging behind, I. whereas the allocation of State aid should be fully transparent so as to constitute an equitable instrument for balanced sustainable regional development and the strengthening of economic and social cohesion, and also offer a means of conducting State aid impact analyses and thereby allowing the application of the "better value for money" principle, J. whereas a variety of sophisticated and precise indicators of regional development and competitiveness should be used when setting criteria and evaluating the effects of State aid, including the total amount of aid granted to particular region, K. whereas promoting growth and jobs creation should be the paramount aim when granting regional aid, 1. Notes the Commission's draft communication on the guidelines on national regional aid for 2007-2013; 2. Calls on the Commission not to adopt draft Regional Aid Guidelines until the financial perspective for the European Union has been set by the Member States and the regional and cohesion policy budget has been decided; 3. Believes that, on the basis of the principle of fairness, the ceilings of aid intensities applicable to all the categories set out in Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty and to the outermost regions should remain the same in the new programming period as in the previous 2000-2006 period; 4. Asks that the differential should not exceed 10 percentage points with a view to preventing relocations and consequent destructive competition between disadvantaged areas in the Member States within the meaning of Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty; 5. Submits that the outermost regions should automatically receive the status of areas within the scope of Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty, and by the same token suggests the same for regions suffering from severe and permanent natural, geographic or demographic handicaps; 6. Stresses the importance of all dimensions of cohesion and requests that appropriate attention be paid to rural areas, areas affected by industrial transition, urban areas in decline and regions which suffer from severe and permanent natural or demographic handicaps, such as regions with very low population density, cross-border regions, islands and mountain regions; calls on the Commission, however, to consider drawing up specific criteria that will make it possible to identify the above-mentioned regions and provide them with a level of aid commensurate with the scale of the problems they face;