WRITTEN QUESTION E-2966/05 by Marco Pannella (ALDE) to the Commission (4 August 2005) Subject: Two homosexuals hanged in Iran On 19 July two boys, one of them 18 years old and his friend, who was still a minor, were publicly hanged in Edalat Square in Mashad, a city in north-eastern Iran. The death penalty, confirmed by the Iranian Supreme Court, was imposed by the judges of Mashad Court No 19, because the two boys had allegedly raped a thirteen-year-old boy at knifepoint. According to ISNA (the Iranian Students' News Agency), which published photographs of the execution, the two boys, identified only by their initials, M.A. and A.M., had also received 200 lashes each for theft and for drinking alcohol. According to international observers and a number of NGOs, including the British organisation OutRage, the two boys had confessed to their homosexual relationship after lengthy torture. Furthermore, still according to OutRage, the report of the execution, first issued by ISNA, did not mention the involvement of a 13-year-old, which was mentioned by the magazine Iran in Focus . The name of the alleged victim of the tragedy was never mentioned, although according to Iranian law, the victims of sex offences must appear in court too. In Iran, girls may be hanged from the age of nine and boys from the age of fifteen. Bearing in mind the Commission's answer of 23 September 2003 to Question E‑2588/03 OJ C 88 E, 8.4.2004, p. 103 . , in which it said ‘the Commission believes that a policy of constructive engagement with Iran is more likely to contribute to improving the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Iran rather than the suspension of all relations with this country’, can the Commission say: — whether it was already aware of the events described and, if so, what initiatives it has promoted or intends to promote; — what improvements were recorded in 2003 regarding the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Iran following its ‘policy of constructive engagement’ and how this ‘policy’ has been implemented; — whether it does not consider it appropriate to suspend all relations with Iran, making their resumption subject to respect for fundamental human rights?