reflects a basic concern of the SPE regulation, namely to establish a uniform solution for each SPE. Furthermore, the possibility of negotiation strengthens the responsibility of entrepreneurs and employees. Finally, the standard rules offer a clear alternative solution. The rapporteur has based the wording of this proposal on the SE directive, the SCE directive and the mergers directive. The special features of the SPE by comparison with the SE and SCE have been taken into account. The proposed amendment does not contain all the details which may prove necessary. This would overburden the draft regulation, which should be directly readable for the founders of a company. If necessary, this omission could be rectified by means of a Commission communication on the subject. The committee adopted the rapporteur's compromise proposal on Article 34, which refers to the provisions of the SE-directive (Directive 2001/86/EC) on employee participation, w here more than 500 employees of the SPE work in a Member State or Member States which provide for a greater degree of employee participation than the Member State in which the SPE has its registered office. No amendments have been adopted as far as arrangements for employee participation in the case of the transfer of the registered office of the SPE (Article 38) is concerned. A further compromise proposal might be presented in order to clarify the relation between Articles 34 and 38 and to adjust Article 34 with respect to SPEs that have a monistic structure. 3. Checks on registration A key point of the Commission proposal is that the setting-up of an SPE should be as simple and unbureaucratic as possible. This point should be preserved. However, the ‘solidity’ and acceptability of the SPE in business transactions make it necessary to provide for possible checks on crucial aspects. The SPE must not become a haven for dubious business practices. Consequently provision should be made for a minimum of preventive checks when the SPE is registered and where changes are made to the articles of association. This very loose condition for establishing an SPE is counterbalanced by a guarantee of sustainability and legal certainty that will strengthen the SPE's reputation. The principle here is: as much protection as possible for legal transactions, as much freedom as possible in legal transactions. 4. References to national law The aim of the SPE regulation is to create a uniform form of company across the EU. This means that references to national law should be avoided wherever possible. The SPE regulation should therefore offer rules of its own on points that are crucial for the ‘daily life’ of the SPE. This will enhance legal certainty with regard to legal transactions within the EU internal market, since both members and third parties will know what rules they can expect throughout the EU. Areas in which the rapporteur considers it appropriate to provide rules specific to the SPE are: the liability of executive directors, the consequences of defective resolutions and the consequences of ineffective clauses in the articles of association. Possible criticism by some Member States on the grounds that