follows: 3. After being elected a Member of the European Parliament on the list of the Forza Italia political party, Mr Musotto was interviewed by journalist Paolo Ligurio as part of a television programme broadcast by Italia Uno on 16 June 1999. 4. On 26 July 1999, Mr Alfonso Sabella brought an action against Mr Musotto on behalf of the public prosecution service asking the competent judicial authorities to initiate proceedings for the offence of libel in the media in connection with statements made by Mr Musotto during the television programme broadcast on 16 June 1999. II. Procedure 1. The relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure are Rules 6 and 6a, in particular Rule 6(1) and (3): '1. In the exercise of its powers in respect of privileges and immunities, Parliament shall seek primarily to uphold its integrity as a democratic legislative assembly and to secure the independence of its Members in the performance of their duties. 3. Any request addressed to the President by a Member or a former Member to defend privileges and immunities shall be announced in Parliament and referred to the committee responsible.' 2. As the President of Parliament considered that Mr Musotto had opened the procedure for defending his immunity, as laid down in the above-mentioned Rules, the request was announced in Parliament. 3. The formal requirements have therefore been met for the matter to be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. III. Applicable provisions The question of whether the Member of Parliament concerned enjoys parliamentary immunity needs to be examined in the light of the applicable provisions The protocols annexed to the founding treaties are part of the Community's primary law and have the same legal value as the treaties themselves. A case concerning taxation of income from immovable assets of Community officials established that a breach of the provisions of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of Community officials represents a failure to fulfil obligations deriving from the treaties (judgment of 24 February 1988, Commission v. Belgium, 260/86, ECR 966). The Act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of the representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage was adopted by Council Decision 76/787. , namely the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities of 8 April 1965 (hereinafter the PPI) and the Act concerning the election of the representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage of 1976 (hereinafter the Act of 1976) . 1. Article 9 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities of 8 April 1865 states that: 'Members of the European Parliament shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties.' 2. Article 10 of the Protocol states that: 'During sessions of the European Parliament, its Members shall enjoy: (a) in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliament; (b) in the territory of any other Member