provide an alternative to union influence In general, employee voice is about how employees are able to have a say over work activities and decisions within the organizations in which they work, regardless of the institutional channel through which it operates—whether through speak-up programmes, quality circles, teamwork, or collective negotiation." ] ], [ "Test case (law)", [ "In case law, a test case is a legal action whose purpose is to set a precedent.", " An example of a test case might be a legal entity who files a lawsuit in order to see if the court considers a certain law or a certain legal precedent applicable in specific circumstances.", " This is useful, for example, in order to later file similar lawsuits in similar circumstances." ] ], [ "Goldfinger v. Feintuch", [ "Goldfinger v. Feintuch (276 N.Y. 281) was a 1936/1937 New York court case that set a legal precedent in the area of labor law, namely that union members were free to peacefully protest, at the retail location, the retail sale of wholesale products that were manufactured by non-union employees." ] ], [ "Harry P. Dees", [ "Harry Porter Dees (1912–2004) was an American lawyer best known for his expertise in business law, healthcare law and labor law.", " His most notable case, was argued in front of the United States Supreme Court in 1966.", " His victory for Hoosier Cardinal Corp. set a precedent for the application of statutes of limitations in labor relations cases and laid the foundation for his career.", " The importance of Dees' case is underscored by the vast number of references to its holding.", " This case has been cited in over 1,000 federal court and administrative agency opinions.", " In fact, every federal circuit court of appeal in the U.S. and countless state courts and administrative agencies have cited Dees' case.", " The case has been cited over 20 times by the U.S. Supreme Court alone.", " This case continues to have an undeniable impact in both U.S. academia and the courtroom: it has been discussed in over 100 law review journals, as recently as 2012, as well as several hundred briefs and motions filed throughout U.S. courts." ] ], [ "Jobbing house", [ "A jobbing house (also known as a \"jobber\" or \"jobbing center\") is a type of wholesale merchant business that buys goods and bulk products from importers, other wholesalers, or manufacturers, and then sells to retailers.", " Jobbing houses can deal in any commodity destined for the retail market.", " Typical categories are food, lumber, hardware, fuel, and textiles.", " Some manufacturers are also jobbers for their own finished goods.", " Common in the late 19th and early 20th century, the term has become archaic." ] ], [ "Agency shop", [ "Where the agency shop is illegal, as is common in labor law governing American public sector unions, a \"fair share provision\" may be agreed to by the union and the employer.", " The provision requires non-union employees to pay a \"fair share fee\" to cover the costs of the