Question for written answer E-8851/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Oriol Junqueras Vies (Verts/ALE) (29 October 2010) Subject: International bilateral treaties on air traffic (4) Regulation (EEC) No 2408/92 liberalised flight routes at the intra-Community level but not at the extra-Community one. Thus, at extra-Community level, Member States still have full power, under bilateral treaties, to manage routes and decide which airports airlines may operate from, without any restrictions under Community law. Thus, according to the Barcelona Chamber of Commerce, the Spanish State has a total of 80 currently-valid bilateral agreements, it being understood that the old agreements with EU Member States have been superseded by Community legislation. Of these 80 agreements, 42 allow companies based in third countries to fly between Barcelona and these countries, 15 leave this possibility open without it being necessary to further amend the bilateral agreement and 23 only admit this possibility subject to further modification of the bilateral agreement. It is clear that international bilateral agreements which restrict or delay the use of regional airports place an undue burden not only on regional economies but on Community airlines operating out of regional airports. This airport policy runs counter to the competitiveness of the European economy, since it puts some European airports at a disadvantage compared with others and impedes free competition. What steps are being taken at Community level to promote regional airports, apart from the positive effects of liberalising routes at intra-Community and extra-Community levels? The Commission has itself recognised in various statements the importance of regional airports. For example, the Commission communication of 24 January 2007 entitled ‘An action plan for airport capacity, efficiency and safety in Europe’, states on page 5 that ‘regional airports are important to the development of an integrated European air transport network. In this respect, it would be desirable to unlock existing latent capacity at regional airports provided that Member States respect Community legal instruments relating to state aids’.