maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is assured. For the gradual establishment of such an area, the Union must adopt measures relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications. (1) The Union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, in which the free movement of persons is assured. For the gradual establishment of such an area, the Union is to adopt measures relating to judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications , particularly when necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market . Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 (2) Pursuant to Article 81 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Council is to adopt measures concerning family law with cross-border implications . (2) Pursuant to Article 81 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the measures in question are to include those aimed at ensuring the compatibility of the rules applicable in the Member States concerning conflict of laws . Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 6 (6) Bulgaria, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Luxembourg, Hungary, Austria, Romania and Slovenia subsequently addressed a request to the Commission indicating that they intended to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the area of applicable law in matrimonial matters and asking the Commission to submit a proposal to the Council for that purpose . (6) Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Greece, Spain, France, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Hungary, Malta, Austria, Portugal , Romania and Slovenia subsequently addressed a request to the Commission indicating that they intended to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the area of applicable law in matrimonial matters. On 3 March 2010 Greece withdrew its request. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 (7) On […] the Council adopted Decision […] authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. (7) On 12 July 2010 the Council adopted Decision 2010/405/EU authorising enhanced cooperation in the area of the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 (8) According to Article 328(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, when enhanced cooperation is being established, it is to be open to all Member States, subject to compliance with any conditions of participation laid down by the authorising decision. It is also to be open to them at any other time, subject to compliance with the acts already adopted within that framework, in addition to those conditions. (8) According to Article 328(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, when enhanced cooperation is being established, it is to be open to all Member States, subject to compliance with any conditions of participation laid down by the authorising decision. It is also to be open to them at any other time, subject to compliance with the acts already adopted within that framework, in addition to those conditions. The Commission and the Member States