European Commission Information was requested from the European Commission regarding the transposition and implementation of the 3LD in the UK and other Member States. This includes the so-called implementation reports as well as the reviews of those implementation reports. In addition, the European Commission was asked to provide EQUI with a complete list of all documents related to the ELS affair in its possession as well as a list of the infringement procedures that had been opened with Member States other than the UK with regards to the 3LD. The Commission responded by sending the private study commissioned into the implementation of the 3LD, the Wilde Sapte study, as well as nine individual country correlation reports. It also sent a list of relevant infringement proceedings and further information on the review of the study and relevant correspondence. 5. Meeting with members of staff of the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman on 29 March 2006 in London On 29 March 2006, the rapporteur met with members of staff of the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman, who is currently conducting an inquiry into alleged maladministration by UK authorities in the regulation of Equitable Life. The main purpose of the meeting was to discuss, among other issues, the scope and timing of the respective inquiries and the cooperation between the Committee of Inquiry and the Ombudsman. On this occasion, the rapporteur pointed out that it would be desirable for the Committee of Inquiry to know the Ombudsman's findings before the committee finalises its work. The Ombudsman's staff confirmed that the final report would be published before the end of 2006, and that a draft report was expected to be ready by July 2006 and would be sent to both a representative of the complainants and the UK Government for comment. However, subsequent events led the Ombudsman to postpone publication of the report until mid-2007. At the time of publication of this report, the timing remains uncertain. The rapporteur discussed possible ways of organising cooperation between the UK Ombudsman and the committee prior to the publication of the Ombudsman's report. The question was raised as to whether and what kind of information the Ombudsman would be willing to share. For instance, the Ombudsman has already carried out a detailed analysis of the UK regulatory system on life assurance, something which the Committee of Inquiry is also required to do under its mandate. However, the Ombudsman's staff underlined the fact that the Ombudsman is not empowered to disclose any information obtained in the course of her investigation other than through her final report. 6. Tools for Members A glossary of specialized insurance and ELS-related terms and a timeline of events was produced for the benefit of the committee's Members (see Annex), as well as a background note on the regulatory structure of the UK and a note on the scope and powers of a European Parliament Committee of Inquiry. Website: A website for the EQUI committee was set up and has been operational since 16 February 2006. Here citizens and Members alike can find all relevant information as well as a