activities of the credit rating agencies. The users of credit ratings should not rely blindly on credit ratings. They should take utmost care to perform own analysis and conduct due diligence regarding their reliance on such credit ratings. (5) Credit rating agencies are considered to have failed , on the one hand, to reflect early enough in their credit ratings the worsening market conditions and , on the other , to adjust their ratings in time following the deepening market crisis . This failure can be best corrected by measures related to conflicts of interest, the quality of the credit ratings, the transparency of the credit rating agencies, their internal governance and surveillance of the activities of the credit rating agencies. The users of credit ratings should be able to rely to a reasonable extent, though not blindly , on credit ratings. They should take utmost care to perform own analysis and conduct due diligence at all times regarding their reliance on such credit ratings. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5a) The rating of sovereign debt should be considered to be a public good and should therefore be undertaken by separate actors in parallel, such as the national courts of auditors and the European Court of Auditors . Justification The current crisis has unveiled speculation and hedging activities on sovereign debt. These phenomena are highly detrimental and should be banned. Giving the responsibility of rating the sovereign debt to another actor might be a solution. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5b) The possibility of establishing a European public rating agency should be considered . Justification The current crisis has shown that credit rating agencies have failed and calls for new actors in this field. This is the position the EP has already adopted when voting the “report with recommendations to the Commission on Hedge funds and private equity” by Poul Nyrup Rasmussen on 11 September 2008. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 c Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5c) It is appropriate to carry out a reform of the CESR, either by expanding the CESR itself into an independent European agency, or by establishing a centralised European agency which issues credit ratings. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6) It is necessary to lay down a common framework of rules regarding the quality of credit ratings to be used by financial institutions regulated by harmonised rules in the Community. Otherwise, there would be a risk that Member States would take diverging measures at national level. This would have a direct negative impact on and create obstacles to the good functioning of the internal market, since the credit rating agencies issuing credit ratings for the use of financial institutions in the Community, would be subject to different rules in different Member States. Moreover, diverging quality requirements on credit ratings could lead to different levels of investor and consumer protection. (6)