capital Tripoli where fighting is ongoing, D. whereas the forces opposing the Gaddafi regime have taken control of most Libyan oil and gas fields, and whereas energy sanctions against Libya would therefore defeat their purpose, E. whereas according to UNHCR, more than 140,000 people have fled to neighbouring countries (particularly Egypt and Tunisia) in recent days and several thousand are stuck at the borders and in urgent need of help; whereas this generates a situation of humanitarian emergency that implies the need for a quick EU reaction, F. whereas according to the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 1970(2011) the systematic and generalized attacks against the civilians committed in Libya might amount to crimes against humanity, G. whereas by its Resolution 1970(2011) of 26 February, the UNSC acting under Chapter VII of the Charter, has imposed an arms embargo and has adopted sanctions against Muammar Gaddafi and the persons responsible for the repression, while referring the situation to the International Criminal Court, H. whereas as from 22nd February, the EU has suspended ongoing negotiations of the EU-Libya Framework Agreement and all cooperation contracts with Libya; whereas on 28 February the EU Council has adopted additional restrictive measures on Libya, I. whereas freedom of expression and the right to assemble peacefully are inalienable human rights that must be respected and protected, J. whereas, as the uprising continues, the humanitarian situation in Libya is degrading with medical supplies, along with fuel and food, running short; whereas according to the United Nations refugees Agency more than 140.000 people have fled Libya to neighbouring Tunisia and Egypt, K. whereas the massive and unstoppable flow of displaced persons has led to dramatic situations also on the health field and humanitarian interventions deployed by some Member States are an effective response to the needs of the affected population, L. whereas the EU has a vital interest in a democratic, stable, prosperous, peaceful North Africa, M. Whereas the massive protests in numerous Arab countries have shown that undemocratic and authoritarian regimes cannot guarantee credible stability and that democratic values cannot be separated from economic and political partnerships, 1. Expresses its solidarity with the Libyan people, and notably with the Libyan youth who have been a driving force for democracy and for regime change, and its support for their legitimate democratic, economic and social aspirations; Condemns in the strongest terms the blatant and systematic violations of human rights in Libya, and in particular the violent repression of peaceful pro-democracy protesters, journalists and human rights defenders by the Gaddafi regime; 2. Strongly condemns the deliberate and disproportionate use of force and deeply regrets the resulting considerable loss of life and the high number of injuries; Expresses its condolences to the families of the victims; 3. Calls therefore for an immediate end to the brutal dictatorial regime of Colonel Gaddafi and calls on him to immediately stand down in order to prevent further bloodshed and to allow for a peaceful political transition to take place; Calls on the Libyan authorities to immediately stop the violence and allow for a peaceful resolution of