governments are also criticized for their solicitation of " diplomatic assurances " against torture - a practice the EP labels as " unacceptable " and contradictory to EU policy guidelines on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. MEPs calls on EU countries to reject such assurances in the future. At the same time, the EP noted that EU-Coordinator for Counter-Terrorism Gijs the Vries and CFSP High Representative Javier Solana had both told MEPs that they were not aware of any violation of national, European or international law by Member States cooperating with the CIA, adding that they were not competent to request relevant information from Member States. EU-level action necessary In several EU countries, reads the report, rules governing the activities of secret services seem " inadequate ". As members point out, activities of foreign secret services on Member States' territory should be governed by more effective controls; to that effect, rules of cooperation should be established at EU level. Intelligence co-operation between EU countries and their allies, the EP argues, " should not be confused with the abandonment of sovereignty over European territory and airspace " . Citing " repeated violations " of the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation during flights carried out by the CIA in Europe - and underlining that no European country has made consistent efforts to ensure that civilian aircraft are used for purposes compatible with international human rights - the Parliament calls on the Commission to harmonise national laws on the use of national airspace and airports. Current European legislation, MEPs conclude, is " totally inadequate ". So far, no evidence of black sites in Europe MEPs adopted an amendment tabled by the EPP-ED, in which they acknowledge that " the work of the temporary committee has so far not revealed any evidence or proof of the existence of secret prisons in the EU ". The Parliament adds, however, that the committee will focus more closely on this subject in the months to come (AM 19). The issue was also the key point of the exchange of views between Council of Europe rapporteur Dick Marty and MEPs last Monday 3 July. Next steps Having " shown the need to carry out further checks " - reads the report - the Temporary Committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners (TDIP) will continue its work for the remainder of its twelve-month term . The Committee's final report, therefore, is due to appear by January / February 2007. MEPs plan, among other things, to invite the Secretary-General of NATO to a hearing to clarify the possible involvement of SFOR and KFOR forces in the illegal detention of the six Bosnians who still remain in Guantanamo. MEPs again call for the closure of the prison at Guantanamo, asking Member States to " take a proactive role " in finding a solution for the detainees. Finally, most amendments tabled by the EPP-ED and UEN groups -- aimed to soften the accusations against the CIA