Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (15 September 2006) The status of persons with reduced mobility in air travel should improve in future with the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 concerning the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air OJ L 204, 26.7.2006. . As regards the first question, the imposition of a luggage limit on disabled persons when even the lightest electric wheelchair or scooter exceeds the limit, thereby causing them substantial difficulty, would be a breach of the above regulation. It emerges from Article 10 ‘Assistance by air carriers’ read in conjunction with Annex II of the above regulation that, in addition to medical equipment, the carrier must allow without additional charge a disabled person or person with reduced mobility a maximum two pieces of mobility equipment per person, including an electric wheelchair, subject to advance warning of 48 hours and to possible limitations of space on board the aircraft, and subject to the application of relevant legislation concerning dangerous goods. If confirmed, the introduction of such a practice by airline companies would constitute a direct breach of the regulation and would ipso facto prevent a significant number of disabled persons from travelling by air. Natural or legal persons responsible for introducing such a practice would incur ‘effective, proportionate and dissuasive’ penalties (Article 16 of the regulation) imposed by the national body responsible for the enforcement of the regulation (Article 14). The second question relates to the compatibility of the airline companies’ policy of allowing just three disabled persons per flight for security reasons with the above regulation. On this matter, Article 4(1)(a) establishes a limited exception to the non-discrimination rule. It states that an air carrier, its agent or a tour operator may refuse, on the grounds of disability or of reduced mobility, to accept a reservation from or to embark a disabled person or a person with reduced mobility in order to meet applicable safety requirements established by international, Community or national law or in order to meet safety requirements established by the authority that issued the air operator's certificate to the air carrier concerned. In other words, accessibility is the rule and refusal to embark the exception, which has to be justified and explained (Article 4(3)). Any abuse on the part of the operators should be punished as outlined above.