delegations. 7. The Conference of Presidents shall decide how seats in the Chamber are to be allocated pursuant to Rule 32. 8. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for authorising the drawing up of own-initiative reports. 9. The Conference of Presidents shall submit proposals to the Bureau concerning administrative and budgetary matters relating to the political groups. Rule 25 Duties of the Quaestors The Quaestors shall be responsible for administrative and financial matters directly concerning Members, pursuant to guidelines laid down by the Bureau. Rule 26 Conference of Committee Chairmen 1. The Conference of Committee Chairmen shall consist of the chairmen of all standing or temporary committees and shall elect its chairman. 2. The Conference of Committee Chairmen may make recommendations to the Conference of Presidents about the work of committees and the drafting of the agenda of part-sessions. 3. The Bureau and the Conference of Presidents may instruct the Conference of Committee Chairmen to carry out specific tasks. Rule 27 Conference of Delegation Chairmen 1. The Conference of Delegation Chairmen shall consist of the chairmen of all standing interparliamentary delegations and shall elect its chairman. 2. The Conference of Delegation Chairmen may make recommendations to the Conference of Presidents about the work of delegations. 3. The Bureau and the Conference of Presidents may instruct the Conference of Delegation Chairmen to carry out specific tasks. Rule 28 Accountability of the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents 1. The minutes of the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents shall be translated into the official languages, printed and distributed to all Members of Parliament and shall be accessible to the public, unless the Bureau or the Conference of Presidents exceptionally, for reasons of confidentiality, as laid down in Article 4(1) to (4) of European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, decides otherwise with regard to certain items of the minutes. 2. Any Member may ask questions related to the work of the Bureau, the Conference of Presidents and the Quaestors. Such questions shall be submitted to the President in writing and published in the Bulletin of Parliament within thirty days of tabling, together with the answers given. CHAPTER 4 POLITICAL GROUPS Rule 29 Formation of political groups 1. Members may form themselves into groups according to their political affinities. Parliament need not normally evaluate the political affinity of members of a group. In forming a group together under this Rule, Members concerned accept by definition that they have political affinity. Only when this is denied by the Members concerned is it necessary for Parliament to evaluate whether the group has been constituted in conformity with the Rules. 2. A political group shall comprise Members elected in at least one-fifth of the Member States. The minimum number of Members required to form a political group shall be twenty. 3. A Member may not belong to more than one political group. 4. The President shall be notified in a statement when a political group is set up. This statement shall specify the name of the group, its members and its bureau. 5.