Question for written answer E-9515/2010 to the Council Rule 117 Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) (18 November 2010) Subject: Colombian Government accused of espionage Some days ago, an online journal reported on the complaints made by various Spanish NGOs against the former Colombian President Álvaro Uribe, claiming that 20 individuals belonging to the organisations in question had been subjected to illegal surveillance by the Colombian Administrative Department of Security (DAS). The accusation also includes Jorge Noguera, who was the director of the DAS between 2002 and 2006, and Germán Villalba Chávez, the official in charge of the DAS surveillance activities in question. Certain lawyers from the organisation Justicia por Colombia claim that the NGOs in question and the activists who were allegedly spied on in Madrid and other Spanish cities were seen by the Uribe government as ‘targets in its political war’. In June 2009, various Colombian and European NGOs called on the European Parliament to set up a Special Commission to investigate the alleged espionage carried out by the DAS. In a report by the Colombian prosecutor's office about the illegal activities of the Uriba government in 2004 and 2005, the Colombian intelligence services carried out espionage in Madrid and other Spanish cities on human rights activists and organisations, with the goal of discrediting them. Information provided by the organisations indicate that the DAS agents recorded telephone conversations, intercepted email, monitored solidarity activities with Colombia, drew up plans to neutralise them and, in some cases, tried to link the organisations with the activities of illegal armed groups. Is the Council aware of this situation? Does the Council intend to take any steps to cast light on these cases of alleged illegal espionage? Has the President of the Council, Herman Van Rompuy, approached the Colombian authorities in any way with regard to this issue? If these accusations should prove to be true, will the EU be taking any steps to ensure that the former president of Colombia accepts responsibility for what happened?