national laws in the field, all of which include the right of reply in respect of the written press. II. Issues 1. Promotion of the information society One of the objectives set in Lisbon was that information and communications technologies (ICT) should make it possible to build an information society for all. This essential task was confirmed by the Council in spring 2004 and in the recent report by Wim Kok. Internet connection has increased rapidly. Today more than 90% of schools are on-line. Following the eEurope action plan introduced by the Commission in 2000, 9 out of every 10 schools in the EU are now connected to the Internet and pupils in 8 schools out of 10 have access to the Internet, with a figure of between 5 to 20 pupils per connected computer, depending on the country concerned, with the Scandinavian countries leading the way. 2. Respect for freedom of expression The possibilities now offered to users by the Internet raise legitimate concerns regarding the protection of minors, respect for human dignity and the exercise of a right of reply. Special attention therefore needs to be paid to this global network. Legislators have a duty to ensure that this tool in the service of freedom of expression does not become a tool that is harmful or even dangerous, in particular to minors. That is why the question is being tackled at all levels. For example, UNESCO held a conference on freedom of expression on 3 and 4 February 2005 in preparation for a world summit on the information society to be held in Tunis from 16 to 18 November 2005. 3. Definition of harmful content Three situations in particular can pose a threat to a minor: where he is an actor, and his image is used in films or pornographic pictures; where he is a spectator, using the Internet and confronted with harmful images, and where he is a potential victim of predators via discussion forums or chat rooms. Problems caused by legal sites not reserved for adults, as in the case of discussion forums, as well as violent sites, on-line video games, etc. A distinction needs to be drawn between ‘illegal’ and ‘harmful’ content. Illegal content must be dealt with at source by police and judicial authorities, whose activities are governed by national laws and judicial cooperation agreements. Harmful content is either authorised content with restricted distribution (e.g. reserved for adults) or content which may offend certain users, but whose publication is not restricted because of the principle of freedom of expression. Under no circumstances does the legality of such content detract from the fact that it is harmful to minors and to their physical, mental or moral development. 4. Technological progress Finally, technological progress is beginning to make it possible for the Internet to be accessed via mobile phones. Parental control over the use of mobile phones by young people is much more difficult, if not impossible. This means that the industry itself must take a little more responsibility and it is strongly encouraged to offer effective technological