between the two Institutions, - having regard to Parliament's Rules of Procedure OJ L 44, 15.2.2005, p. 1. , and in particular Rules 98, 99 and 120 as well as Annex VII, A. whereas the Treaties strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the European Union's decision-making process, B. whereas the two Institutions attach the utmost importance to the effective transposition and implementation of Community law, C. whereas this Framework Agreement does not affect the powers and prerogatives of Parliament, the Commission or any other institution or organ of the European Union but seeks to ensure that those powers and prerogatives are exercised as effectively as possible, D. whereas it is appropriate to update the Framework Agreement concluded in July 2000 OJ C 121, 24.4.2001, p. 122. and to replace it by the following text, agree as follows: I. SCOPE 1. The two Institutions agree on the following measures to strengthen the political responsibility and legitimacy of the Commission, extend constructive dialogue, improve the flow of information between the two Institutions and improve the coordination of procedures and planning. They also agree on specific implementing measures for the forwarding of confidential Commission documents and information, as set out in Annex 1 and on the timetable for the Commission’s legislative and work programme, as set out in Annex 2. II. POLITICAL RESPONSIBILITY 2. Each Member of the Commission shall take political responsibility for action in the field of which he or she is in charge, without prejudice to the principle of Commission collegiality. The President of the Commission shall be fully responsible for identifying any conflict of interest which renders a Member of the Commission unable to perform his or her duties. The President of the Commission shall likewise be responsible for any subsequent action taken in such circumstances; if an individual case has been re-allocated, the President shall inform the President of Parliament thereof immediately and in writing. 3. If Parliament decides to express lack of confidence in a Member of the Commission, the President of the Commission, having given serious consideration to that decision, shall either request that Member to resign, or explain his or her decisions to Parliament. 4. Where it becomes necessary to arrange for the replacement of a Member of the Commission during his or her term of office pursuant to Article 215 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the President of the Commission shall immediately contact the President of Parliament in order to reach agreement on the manner in which the President of the Commission intends to ensure the presentation of the future Member before Parliament without delay and in full compliance with the prerogatives of the Institutions. Parliament shall ensure that its procedures are conducted with the utmost dispatch, in order to enable the President of the Commission to be informed of Parliament’s position in due time before the Member is called upon to exercise duties as the Commission’s representative. 5. The President of the Commission shall immediately notify Parliament of any decision concerning the allocation of responsibilities to a Member of the Commission. Where the responsibilities