representation of the SPE by the management body, in particular if the directors have the right to represent the SPE jointly or separately and any delegation of this right, – the rules on representation of the SPE by the executive management body, in particular if the directors have the right to represent the SPE jointly or separately and any delegation of this right, Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 69 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Chapter V – Organisation of the SPE – indent 21 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment – the rules on delegation of any management power to another person. – the rules on delegation of any executive management power to another person. Justification See Amendment 2. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The Commission proposal is to be welcomed. It closely corresponds to the European Parliament’s resolution with recommendations to the Commission on the European private company statute (2006-2013(INI)) of 1 February 2007 ( P6_TA(2007)0023 ). In its draft regulation the Commission has clearly demonstrated that it attaches considerable importance to the creation of a uniform form of company under Community law that is attractive for small and medium-sized businesses. To this end the Commission is proposing, inter alia, that the conditions for setting up a company should be kept as simple as possible and that the subsequent ‘life’ of the SPE should also not be burdened with unnecessary bureaucracy. The rapporteur supports the Commission proposal. The proposed amendments are essentially aimed at responding to the debates that are to be anticipated within the Council and to counteract blockages within the Council. This applies in particular to three of the four main points of the draft report, namely: 1. the minimum capital, 2. employee participation and 3. checks on registration. The fourth key point addressed in the amendments concerns 4. references to national law. The rapporteur takes the view that some of these references should be replaced by rules specific to SPEs in the regulation itself. In so doing, the rapporteur is echoing Parliament's call for a form of company that is as uniform as possible. The committee, in its report adopted on 12 January, supports the rapporteur's general approach. 1. Minimum capital The Commission has not specified a capital stock when the SPE is established. The SPE can be established with one euro. The rapporteur has a certain sympathy for this simple condition for establishing an SPE. In practice, capital stock does not help to protect creditors. However, it cannot be denied that a certain amount of ‘start-up capital’ may represent a threshold for solidity that will enhance the SPE's reputation. The rapporteur recognises that the proposed EUR 10 000, which corresponds to Parliament's proposal of 1 February 2007, will be harder to raise in some Member States than in others. Given that material living conditions within the EU are improving constantly and disparities between the Member States are being ironed out, however, it is to be expected that EUR 10 000 may be seen as a reasonable threshold for solidity in all the Member States in the near future.