public authorities should listen to their voice and ensure that they are taken into account whenever decisions are taken with a view to combating those who made them unwilling protagonists, I. whereas terrorist groups exploit extreme poverty, the failure to uphold human rights and constitutional government, collective frustration, the lack of access to training and social exclusion in pursuit of their capture and infiltration strategies, J. whereas societies which suffer from high levels of political, social, economic, ethnic, religious and other discrimination and from a lack of democracy and human rights constitute an ideal breeding ground for terrorism, K. whereas, in order for terrorism to be fought effectively, a detailed knowledge is required of the terrorist group which is being fought, of that group's ideology and of the social, political, economic and religious context from which it emerges and on which its perpetrators and supporters feed, L. whereas specific action should be taken in order to combat each terrorist organisation, in view of the fact that each one has its own objectives, organisation and modus operandi, and whereas, in particular, specific action should be taken against the Al-Qaeda organisation, M. whereas the threat of terrorism is not restricted to specific geographic zones and whereas terrorist organisations are to be found both within and outside the Union's borders and have provided ample proof of their ability to carry out attacks and acts of violence in any continent and against various countries simultaneously, N. whereas the Member States individually and the European Union and its institutions have already been or may be direct targets of international terrorism, O. whereas the painful experiences to date show that no Member State can on its own successfully face terrorism and whereas it is therefore of fundamental importance that there be, first, a common Union policy to combat terrorism, making use of all the instruments and resources at the disposal of states governed by the rule of law and of the Union itself, and, second, effective and democratically controlled international cooperation in the fight against international terrorism, P. whereas essential requirements in an effective fight against terrorism are an enhancement of transatlantic cooperation and coordination and full implementation of the above-mentioned EU-US declarations on Combating Terrorism and on Enhancing Cooperation in the field of Non-Proliferation and the Fight Against Terrorism, and the EU-US declaration issued at the Vienna Summit, Q. whereas the fight against international terrorism calls for a strong linkage between internal and external aspects of security and whereas the EU must aim for a holistic, coherent and cross-pillar approach to this challenge, R. aware that the global dimension of terrorism also requires a global response, tackling terrorism in all its dimensions, including the security, political, economic social and cultural aspects, S. whereas the European Union is founded on a set of values, as expressed, for instance, in the Copenhagen criteria, and whereas those values should be promoted all over the world as the only way to prevent terrorism in the long term, T. aware that the external and internal dimensions of the fight against terrorism are