protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data; 4. the establishment and development of an area of freedom, security and justice, in particular: (a) measures concerning the entry and movement of persons, asylum and migration as well as judicial and administrative cooperation in civil matters, (b) measures concerning an integrated management of the common borders, (c) measures relating to police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters; 5. the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia, Europol, Eurojust, Cepol and other bodies and agencies in the same area; 6. the determination of a clear risk of a serious breach by a Member State of the principles common to the Member States. XVIII. Committee on Constitutional Affairs Committee responsible for: 1. the institutional aspects of the European integration process, in particular in the framework of the preparation and proceedings of conventions and intergovernmental conferences; 2. the implementation of the EU Treaty and the assessment of its operation; 3. the institutional consequences of enlargement negotiations of the Union; 4. interinstitutional relations, including, in view of their approval by Parliament, examination of interinstitutional agreements pursuant to Rule 120(2) of the Rules of Procedure; 5. uniform electoral procedure; 6. political parties at European level, without prejudice to the competences of the Bureau; 7. the determination of the existence of a serious and persistent breach by a Member State of the principles common to the Member States; 8. the interpretation and application of the Rules of Procedure and proposals for amendments thereto. XIX. Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality Committee responsible for: 1. the definition, promotion and protection of women's rights in the Union and related Community measures; 2. the promotion of women's rights in third countries; 3. equal opportunities policy, including equality between men and women with regard to labour market opportunities and treatment at work; 4. the removal of all forms of discrimination based on sex; 5. the implementation and further development of gender mainstreaming in all policy sectors; 6. the follow-up and implementation of international agreements and conventions involving the rights of women; 7. information policy on women. XX. Committee on Petitions Committee responsible for: 1. petitions; 2. relations with the European Ombudsman. ANNEX VII Confidential and sensitive documents and information A. Consideration of confidential documents communicated to Parliament Procedure for the consideration of confidential documents communicated to the European Parliament Adopted by decision of Parliament of 15 February 1989 and amended by its decision of 13 November 2001. 1. Confidential documents shall mean documents and information to which public access may be refused in accordance with Article 4 of European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 and shall include sensitive documents as defined in Article 9 of that Regulation. Where the confidential nature of documents received by Parliament is questioned by one of the institutions, the matter shall be referred to the interinstitutional committee established pursuant to Article 15(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. When confidential documents are communicated to Parliament under cover of confidentiality, the chairman of