nuclear sector. Justification Same justification as Amendment 9. Amendment 16 Annex 1, Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection, Activities, Human resources and training To support the retention and further development of scientific competence and human capacity in order to guarantee the availability of suitably qualified researchers and employees in the nuclear sector over the longer term. To support the retention and further development of scientific competence and human capacity in order to guarantee the availability of suitably qualified researchers and employees in the field of decommissioning nuclear installations .. Justification At the end of 2004, 22 plants have been shut-down over the last 15 years in the EU25 and, in the absence of significant new built, the average age of operating nuclear power plants has been increasing steadily. Research reactors have to be decommissioned as well. It is therefore important to have sufficient researchers and employees in the field of decommissioning nuclear installations, which will become more and more important with time. Amendment 17 Annex 1, Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre, title NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES OF THE JOINT RESEARCH CENTRE KNOWLEDGE FOR EU POLICY MAKING Justification Same justification as Amendment 4. Amendment 18 Annex 1, Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre, Objective Objective To provide customer driven scientific and technical support to the EU policy making process in the nuclear field, ensuring support to the implementation and monitoring of existing policies while flexibly responding to new policy demands. To provide customer driven scientific and technical support to the EU policy making process in the nuclear field, while adapting to changing policy demands Justification The whole concept of this amendment is to provide the knowledge for the EU policy makers towards the future, i.e. towards an intelligent energy economy based on energy conservation measures, energy efficiency and renewables. Amendment 19 Annex 1, Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre, Rationale Rationale deleted The Joint Research Centre supports the objectives of the European strategy for energy supply, particularly to help matching the Kyoto objectives. The EU has a recognised competence in many aspects of nuclear technology, and this is built on a solid basis of past successes in the domain. The usefulness of the JRC in its support to EU policies and in its contribution to the new trends in nuclear research are based on its scientific expertise and its integration in the international scientific community. On the one hand the JRC has competent staff and state-of-the-art facilities to carry out recognized scientific/technical work; and on the other hand it supports the policy of the EU to maintain basic competencies and expertise for the future by training young scientists and fostering their mobility. New demand has emerged in particular in the external relations and security related policies. In these cases, in-house and secure information/analyses/systems are needed which cannot always be obtained on the market. The nuclear activities of the JRC aim to satisfy the R&D requirements to support both Commission and Member States . The objective of this programme is to develop and assemble knowledge, to provide input to the debate on nuclear