the transfers of the second semester is the calendar: the committee on budgets has always stressed the need to improve the link between the current budget and the preparation of next year's budget. In order to render this possible, the Commission should present the first evaluation and forecast of the expected implementation around mid September, well in advance with respect to EP's first reading. This calendar is compatible with the commitment taken by the Commission to inform the budgetary authority of the state of the implementation. Your Rapporteur would like to stress how important it is for the global transfer, concerning payments, and those concerning commitments, to be presented in good time in order to allow the Parliament to take them into consideration before the first reading. THE IMPLEMENTATION PROFILE 20. Last year, according to the joint declaration by the Parliament, the Council and the Commission on the implementation profile for the 2002 budget, it was agreed that: "The Commission will forward the implementation plan for the 2002 budget, broken down by financial perspective heading, at the latest when presenting the 2003 preliminary draft budget ( beginning of May ). The implementation plan will include the implementation profiles for the budget titles and chapters. 21. The Rapporteur at this stage cannot comment on the implementation with respect to the implementation profile. However, documents distributed separately indicate the sectors where a difference with last year's implementation appear. The Rapporteur stresses the importance that the Commission informs of any divergence from the implementation profile and indicates the measures to be taken to rectify the situation. PILOT PROJECT AND PREPARATORY ACTIONS 22. Special attention should be paid to the way pilot projects and preparatory actions are implemented. The Commission should present the state of play of all the pilot project and preparatory actions adopted in the Budget 2002 before the end of the first semester. One should remember that a margin is still available under both categories making it possible to increase the amount if the implementation is good and the interest for the pilot project and the preparatory actions is high. The table below shows what was adopted in 2002 budget. 23. The Commission has been given the possibility during the last budgetary procedure, to comment on pilot projects and preparatory action and should therefore be able to implement the budget as voted in December. The Rapporteur suggests that the Commission presents during one of the next Budget committee meetings, all initiatives that have been taken to implement the pilot project and preparatory actions. THE REDUCTION OF THE RAL 24. The reduction of the Outstanding payments (RAL) was one of last year's objectives and its monitoring should remain a priority aim. The budgetary authority expects information from the Commission in the next days and will start the process that should lead to the close re-examination of the “old” or “sleeping” dossiers, and if necessary, to the cancellation of commitment. 25. According to the second joint declaration on the 2002 budget: "(…) the Commission will submit, at the latest at the same time as the