points made and ideas raised by each of the invited expert speakers per section of the hearing. The summary covers their opening remarks and responses to questions from members. Based upon notes provided by the secretariat of the committee on budgets. . Trade and development 34. David O'Sullivan , Director-General, DG Trade, European Commission: · Open trade policies can make a major contribution to economic growth and development. Protectionism is not the right policy response to the economic challenges of globalisation. Increased research and development spending can also enhance economic growth. · Trade facilitation is an area in which development objectives can be furthered by reducing the costs of onerous border procedures. The Commission committed to spend €1 billion on aid for trade annually by 2010 at the 2005 G8 summit. · The forthcoming Commission communication on external aspects of competitiveness needs to be carefully calibrated in light of the current difficult stage of the DDA negotiations. 35. Athanissios Theodorakis , Director-General, DG Development, European Commission: · The "European Consensus on Development" adopted by the Council, Parliament and Commission in December 2005 includes intermediate goals for Official Development Assistance (ODA) by the EU of 0.56% of GNI by 2010 with a view to achieving the UN target of 0.7% of GNI by 2015 to which the EU is committed. · Common, agreed objectives are essential if the various aid providers are to work effectively together. This included improving co-ordination with the development aid programming of EU member states. · The development elements of the Preliminary Draft Budget (PDB) have been proposed by the Commission according to a much simplified structure based on a reduced number of geographical and thematic instruments. 10. Ashraf Ghani , Chancellor of Kabul University (speaking note at annex I): · State-building and market-building are the key challenges to integrate into the global system those developing countries that are currently effectively excluded from it. Development assistance should be channelled through the recipient state if it is to be most effective. · Building an institutional framework that eliminates the scope for corruption and favours the development of a middle-class is essential to successful development and state-building. · The proliferation of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) through which aid payments are often channelled can lead to waste through overlapping, rather than complementary, projects and detract from the primacy of the state. · There should be improved international co-ordination with a view to producing an agreed blue-print on how to guarantee the effectiveness of state apparatus in developing countries. 11. Mirian Van Reisen , Director, Europe External Policy Advisors, in response to the questions set out in the working documents accompanying the hearing: · Heading 4 (Europe as a global actor) was under-resourced in the Commission's 2007 Preliminary Draft Budget (PDB). Decreases in development aid resources for Asia are a bad element of the PDB. · It is necessary to develop mechanisms to ensure that Community development assistance provided as direct budgetary support to recipient countries is used appropriately and transparently. · The European Parliament should maintain its co-decision power in the area of