business rules on their territory? Did they assist policyholders addressing complaints to regulators? 5. Was there an appropriate flow of information and concerted action between UK regulators and regulators of other Member States in relation to EL's activities on their territory? II. The UK Life Insurance Regulatory System UK insurance companies have been required to make detailed accounting and actuarial returns The Insurance Companies Act 1982 required life insurance companies to submit the abstract of the 'Appointed Actuary's valuation report', the 'Annual report' and the company's 'Annual Accounts' required under the Companies Acts . Secondary legislation further specified the content of prescribed regulatory returns which - in the late 1990s - could run to several hundred pages. (compare. WE32, para.44) to enable the monitoring of their state of solvency since the adoption of the " Life Assurance Companies Act" of 1870. A more formal authorisation regime backed by regulatory powers was consequently introduced in 1967 and later strengthened by the introduction of the concept of " policyholders' reasonable expectations" (PRE) As specified in WE32, para.30-31, the concept of 'policyholders' reasonable expectations' has never been specifically defined and did not have its origin in EC legislation, i.e. EC legislation never created an equivalent legal requirement to PRE. It was unique to the UK but although this standard should have lead to a conservative estimation of a company's liabilities, it clearly did not prove helpful in the EL case. and the statutory role of " Appointed Actuaries " in 1974 see Insurance Companies Act 1974, section 2 (15). . It appears that UK prudential supervision of life insurance companies had been traditionally inspired by a doctrine of “freedom with publicity” defined as " life insurance companies would make their affairs public through financial information being placed in the public domain." Accordingly, it was desirable to have "some prudential supervision of life insurance business to safeguard policyholders’ interests but it was also desirable not to restrict commercial freedom ... as excessively intrusive prudential supervision could have an inhibiting effect on the development of an innovative and competitive life insurance market ... At its heart, the supervisory regime remained one based on insurance companies’ freedom of action rather than on prescriptive rules." WE32, para.23.a,b,d. However, academics suggest that EU financial services legislation has improved the UK legal framework governing financial services provision: " In most areas of UK financial regulation, ranging from market abuse/insider dealing, capital adequacy, insolvency ratios for insurers, and capital market regulation, the UK legal regime has benefited immensely and has been reformed by EU legislation. The implementation of EU financial services law into UK law has not undermined the UK ’s ‘soft touch’ principles-based system of financial regulation." see Prof. Kern Alexander, WE-FILE 31, point 4 (1). Over the past two decades, the regulatory and supervisory framework of life insurance companies in the UK has evolved in different steps, leading to the creation of the single Financial Supervising Authority (FSA), which gained its full regulatory powers only in December 2001. Until then, UK insurance companies that sold long-term investment products were regulated