a report by Ana Gomes (PES, PT) on the EU's role in Iraq adopted with 506 votes in favour, 25 against and 26 abstentions. It calls on the Council to "step up the quantity, but especially the quality, of EU support for UN efforts to build a safe, stable, unified, prosperous and democratic Iraq." The report urges the Council to concentrate the EU's support for democratic governance towards three goals in particular: "enhancing coordination between the Government and the Council of Representatives," "strengthening electoral procedures at the local level," and "reinforcing local democracy." It also asks it to "urge the Commission to alleviate the plight of Iraqi refugees in Jordan and Syria and in other countries in the region" and to "improve the possibilities for Iraqi refugees to find refuge in EU Member States through resettlement programmes agreed with the UNHCR (25,000 cases) or through individual asylum requests." Speaking in the debate in Strasbourg, Baroness Emma Nicholson of Winterbourne (South East, Liberal Democrat, UK), on behalf of the ALDE Group said: "Iraq today has a true parliament and a wholly secular constitution. Iraq is one of the very few nations in this region to have a democracy – a secular democracy – despite its flaws. We therefore must do all we can to help the Iraqis strengthen the democratic process. I believe strengthening ties between our respective parliaments is one of the key ways in which we can assist. I am most honoured to be the new chairman of the delegation that the Conference of Presidents has recently created." Caroline Lucas, (Greens/EFA, South East, UK) said: "The report before us welcomes Iraq’s observer status at the WTO as a key step towards driving Iraq’s integration in the international economy and it looks forward to the EU-Iraq trade and cooperation agreement. I just want to make sure that Iraq has sufficiently built up its own capacities for negotiation and evaluation. Otherwise we risk that country becoming once again prey to outside interests." Transparency of EU funding The European Parliament also asks the Council to "urge the Commission to ensure the transparency and efficiency of EU assistance for Iraq" by operating on the ground wherever possible, and by ensuring that "substantive EU assistance is directed towards improving public finance management and budgetary control, with the aim of ensuring that the Iraqi government is better able to disburse the substantial and increasing public funds now available to it." It also encourages the use of the "European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) in providing technical and financial assistance to civil society organisations," especially with the view to improving the rights of women, children and minorities, and fighting against torture and the death penalty. Security questions The report repeats a long-standing demand of the Parliament (which is also expressed in a separate resolution on the topic voted on the same day) to make "the EU Code of Conduct on Arms Exports legally binding." It also urges the Council to improve "EUFOR Althea's oversight of stockpiles in Bosnia-Herzegovina, by accelerating the destruction of stockpiles in the