to the Commission. 2. The Commission shall, save in exceptional circumstances, submit any preliminary draft amending budget to the Council by 1 September each year at the latest. It may attach an opinion to the requests for amending budgets from the other institutions. 3. The budgetary authority shall discuss them with due account for their urgency. Article 38 1. Where the Council receives a preliminary draft amending budget, it shall draw up a draft amending budget in accordance with Articles 35 and 37. 2. Except for the timetable, Articles 35 and 36 shall apply to amending budgets. They must be substantiated by reference to the budget whose estimates they are amending. Article 39 The Commission and the budgetary authority may agree to bring forward certain dates for the transmission of the estimates, and for the adoption and transmission of the preliminary draft and draft budgets. This arrangement may not, however, have the effect of shortening or prolonging the periods allowed for consideration of these texts under Article 272 of the EC Treaty and Article 177 of the Euratom Treaty. CHAPTER 2 Structure and presentation of the budget Article 40 The budget shall consist of: a) a summary statement of revenue and expenditure; b) separate sections subdivided into statements of revenue and expenditure for each institution. Article 41 1. Commission revenue and the revenue and expenditure of the other institutions shall be classified by the budgetary authority according to their type or the use to which they are assigned under titles, chapters, articles and items. 2. The statement of expenditure for the Commission section shall be set out on the basis of a nomenclature adopted by the budgetary authority and classified according to purpose. A title shall correspond to a policy area and a chapter shall, as a rule, correspond to an activity. Each title may include operating appropriations and administrative appropriations. The administrative appropriations for a title shall be grouped in a single chapter. Article 42 The budget may not contain negative revenue. The own resources paid under the Council Decision on the system of the Communities' own resources shall be net amounts and shall be shown as such in the summary statement of revenue in the budget. Article 43 1. Each section of the budget may include a "provisions" title. Appropriations shall be entered in this title in the following two circumstances: a) where no basic act exists for the action concerned when the budget is established; b) where there are serious grounds for doubting the adequacy of the appropriations or the possibility of implementing, under conditions consonant with sound financial management, the appropriations entered on the lines concerned. The appropriations in this title may be used only after transfer in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24. 2. In the event of serious implementation difficulties, the Commission may propose, in the course of a financial year, that appropriations be transferred to the "provisions" title. The budgetary authority shall take a decision on these transfers as provided in Article 24. Article 44 The Commission section of the budget may