9 December 1999 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission and Council statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by the following Members: Seguro, McNally, Westendorp y Cabeza, Rocard and E. Mann, on behalf of the PSE Group on the third ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organisation in Seattle Resolution on the third ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organisation in Seattle The European Parliament, - having regard to its resolution of 18 November 1999 on the Commission communication on the EU approach to the WTO Millennium Round See "Texts Adopted" of that sitting, Item 3. , - having regard to the outcome of the third ministerial meeting of the World Trade Organisation, 1. Regrets the lack of agreement among the members of the World Trade Organisation on drawing up an agenda for the so-called Millennium Round, which demonstrates once more the difficulty of finding solutions to the imperative need to govern the process of globalisation; 2. Insists that trade must be an instrument in the service of sustainable development and, fundamentally, for the eradication of poverty in the world; therefore social aspects, the environment and food safety, accompanied, where necessary, by sufficient development resources, must be linked to any trade negotiation; 3. Notes and understands the fears that the World Trade Organisation arouses in society; with a view to greater transparency and legitimacy in its proceedings, reiterates its support for providing the WTO with a parliamentary body which will exercise democratic supervision and will bridge the gap between the citizens and the institution; 4. Calls for a reform of the way in which the WTO makes its decisions, to ensure that developing countries feel fully involved in the process; 5. Expresses its satisfaction with, and recognition of, the cooperation offered by the Commission to the European Parliament Delegation in Seattle; considers it vitally important to maintain a joint strategy of the Community Institutions; 6. Asks the Council and Commission to deepen and widen bilateral trade relations with countries or regional blocs sharing the same trade strategy as the European Union; in this connection, reiterates its commitment to fighting poverty, and therefore attaches particular importance to conclusion of the Agreement with the ACP countries; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the governments and parliaments of the Member States and the Director-General of the WTO.