2006 [18 months after its entry into force] at the latest , subject to any transitional provisions which may be strictly necessary in order to cover the extension of licensing rights, in particular where it is necessary to create new systems or infrastructure (for instance in relation to transparency requirements for investment firms and MTFs) or to put in place new documentation . They shall apply those provisions as from 1 July 2006. When Member States adopt those provisions, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made. Article 68 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 69 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States. Done at , For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX I LIST OF SERVICES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS SECTION A Investment services 1. Reception and transmission, of orders in relation to one or more financial instruments. 2. Execution of orders on behalf of clients. 3. Dealing on own account. 4. Managing portfolios in accordance with mandates given by clients on a discretionary client-by-client basis where such portfolios include one or more financial instruments. 5. Investment advice. 6. (a) underwriting and placing of financial instruments on a firm commitment basis; b) placing without a firm commitment or other activities undertaken in agreement with the issuer of the instrument to assist the distribution of or subscription to public or private offers of financial instruments. 7. Operation of Multilateral Trading Facilities. SECTION B Ancillary services 1. Safekeeping and administration of financial instruments for the account of clients, including custodianship and related services such as cash/collateral management; 2. Granting credits or loans to an investor to allow him to carry out a transaction in one or more financial instruments, where the firm granting the credit or loan is involved in the transaction; 3. Advice to undertakings on capital structure, industrial strategy and related matters and advice and services relating to mergers and the purchase of undertakings; 4. Foreign exchange services; 5. Investment research and financial analysis or other forms of general recommendation relating to transactions in financial instruments; 6. Services related to commodities. SECTION C Financial Instruments 1. Transferable securities; 2. Money-market instruments; 3. Units in collective investment undertakings; 4. Options and futures contracts in respect of securities, currencies, interest rates or yields, commodities or other derivatives instruments, indices or measures; 5. Interest-rate, currency and equity swaps; 6. Forward-rate agreements and any other derivative contract for a cash settlement determined by reference to prices of securities, interest rates or yields, foreign exchange rates, commodities or other indices or measures; 7. Contracts for differences or other derivative instruments for transfer of credit risk. ANNEX II PROFESSIONAL CLIENTS FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS DIRECTIVE I. Categories of client who are considered to be professionals The following should all be regarded as professionals in all