instability and reforms could be asked of them too. Other improvements by Parliament Apart from the issues settled, many other improvements were brought about by pressure from MEPs. Some of the most important improvements are: putting into law the European semester (annual assessment of national budgets for economic policy coordination), through its inclusion in the legal texts. This will give the procedure much more weight and bite, establishing a legal framework for the surveillance of the national reform programmes increased powers for the Commission, which can ask for more information to be supplied to it than envisaged in the original proposals and through on the spot checks to Member States, A new fine (0.2% GDP) for Eurozone members which supply fraudulent statistics with regard to data on deficits and debt, an interest-bearing deposit sanction (0.1% GDP) for Eurozone members in cases where a Member State fails to act on recommendations to rectify a macroeconomic imbalance. greater independence of statistical bodies and standards for the compilation of statistics, and safeguarding social bargaining processes and wage setting agreements when delivering recommendations. Background: the package in a nutshell Firstly, the "six-pack" gives more bite to the current stability and growth pact (SGP), so as to control deficits and debt levels better and from an earlier stage. Secondly, it innovates, by aiming to oblige policy makers to act swiftly to restore the health of economies that are threatened by macro-economic imbalances, such as house-price bubbles or loss of competitiveness. Both these aims are to be achieved through preventive action, primarily warnings, and corrective action, in the form of sanctions. Thirdly, the rules aim to ensure that the statistics vital to sound budgetary policy-making and budget monitoring are more accurate, inter alia by having them gathered more independently. Besides these three key goals, the "six-pack" is also designed, specifically at the insistence of MEPs, to improve transparency and accountability across the board and to increase the powers of the Commission. Results: Wortmann Kool report: 354 in favour, 269 against, 34 abstentions Feio report: 363/268/37 Ferreira report: 554/90/21 Goulard report: 352/237/67 Haglund report: 394/63/206 Ford report: 442/185/40 -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 BKG DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 BKG DOC XML V0//EN