Bureau or the Conference of Presidents exceptionally, for reasons of confidentiality, as laid down in Article 4(1) to (4) of European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, decides otherwise with regard to certain items of the minutes. 2. Any Member may ask questions related to the work of the Bureau, the Conference of Presidents and the Quaestors. Such questions shall be submitted to the President in writing and published in the Bulletin of Parliament within thirty days of tabling, together with the answers given. CHAPTER 4 POLITICAL GROUPS Rule 29 Formation of political groups 1. Members may form themselves into groups according to their political affinities. Parliament need not normally evaluate the political affinity of members of a group. In forming a group together under this Rule, Members concerned accept by definition that they have political affinity. Only when this is denied by the Members concerned is it necessary for Parliament to evaluate whether the group has been constituted in conformity with the Rules. 2. A political group shall comprise Members elected in at least one-fifth of the Member States. The minimum number of Members required to form a political group shall be twenty. 3. A Member may not belong to more than one political group. 4. The President shall be notified in a statement when a political group is set up. This statement shall specify the name of the group, its members and its bureau. 5. The statement shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rule 30 Activities and legal situation of the political groups 1. The political groups shall carry out their duties as part of the activities of the Union, including the tasks allocated to them by the Rules of Procedure. The political groups shall be provided with a secretariat on the basis of the establishment plan of the Secretariat, administrative facilities and the appropriations entered for that purpose in Parliament's budget. 2. The Bureau shall lay down the rules relating to the provision, implementation and monitoring of those facilities and appropriations, as well as to the related delegations of budget implementation powers. 3. Those rules shall determine the administrative and financial consequences in the event of the dissolution of a political group. Rule 31 Non-attached Members 1. Members who do not belong to a political group shall be provided with a secretariat. The detailed arrangements shall be laid down by the Bureau on a proposal from the Secretary-General. 2. The Bureau shall also determine the status and parliamentary rights of such Members. 3. The Bureau shall also lay down the rules relating to the provision, implementation and auditing of appropriations entered in Parliament's budget to cover secretarial expenses and administrative facilities of non-attached Members. Rule 32 Allocation of seats in the Chamber The Conference of Presidents shall decide how seats in the Chamber are to be allocated among the political groups, the non-attached Members and the institutions of the European Union. TITLE II LEGISLATIVE, BUDGETARY AND OTHER PROCEDURES CHAPTER 1 LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES - GENERAL PROVISIONS Rule 33 Commission's legislative and work programme 1.