Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The period after which the analysts and persons approving credit ratings may be involved in providing the credit rating services to the rated entity or related third parties referred to in the first subparagraph may not be shorter than two years. The period after which the analysts may be in direct contact again with the rated entity or related third parties referred to in the first subparagraph , in order to provide credit rating services, may not be shorter than two years. Justification Conflict of interests for analysts that are in frequent contact with issuers should be prevented. The rating committees are not in direct contact and have valuable sectoral expertise. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 3 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (a) have access to any document in any form and to receive or take a copy thereof; (a) have access to any document in any form and to receive or take a copy thereof for use in their supervisory capacity ; Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 3 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) demand information from any person and if necessary to summon and question a person with a view to obtaining information; (b) demand information from any person and if necessary to summon and question a person with a view to obtaining information for use in their supervisory capacity ; Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment When exercising these powers the same rules concerning professional secrecy and legal professional privilege shall apply under the laws of the Member State as apply in other supervisory procedures for financial markets. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 – paragraph 1 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The competent authority of the home Member State may take the following measures: 1. The competent authority of the home Member State may take the following measures in the event of a breach of this Regulation : Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Article 28 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The obligation of professional secrecy shall apply to all persons who work or who have worked for the competent authority or for any authority or person to whom the competent authority has delegated tasks, including auditors and experts contracted by the competent authority. Information covered by professional secrecy may not be disclosed to any other person or authority except when such disclosure is necessary for legal proceedings. 1. The obligation of professional secrecy shall apply to all persons who work or who have worked for the competent authority , the CESR or for any authority or person to whom the competent authority has delegated tasks, including auditors and experts contracted by the competent authority. Information covered by professional secrecy may not be disclosed to any other person or authority except when such disclosure is necessary