credit rating agency. Justification A credit rating agency needs to be able to explain ex post their methodology, models and key assumptions to competent authorities. This principle forces CRA to have full understanding of their rating methodologies, models and rating assumptions. Nonetheless, the independence of the CRAs and the ratings itself need to be fully respected by competent authorities. Amendment 67 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 5 c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5c. A credit rating agency established in the Community and registered in accordance with this Regulation shall be deemed to have issued a credit rating when the credit rating has been published on th at credit rating agency’s website or by other means or when it has been distributed by subscription and presented and disclosed in accordance with Article 8, clearly identifying that the credit rating is endorsed. Justification It is necessary to enable third country ratings to be used in the EU provided that two sets of criteria are met: 1) assessment of compliance of a third country CRA with high level standards on integrity of credit rating activities and on going monitoring of such compliance by the EU CRA, 2) establishment of cooperation arrangements with competent authorities of the third countries, assessment of compliance prerequisites of the endorsement process during the registration and ongoing supervision. Amendment 68 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. A credit rating agency shall disclose any credit rating, as well as any decisions to discontinue a credit rating on a non-selective basis and in a timely manner. 1. A credit rating agency shall disclose any credit rating, as well as any decisions to discontinue a credit rating on a non-selective basis and in a timely manner. In making such disclosure, a credit rating agency shall set out the grounds and reasons for the disclos ure . Amendment 69 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The first subparagraph shall not apply to credit ratings that are distributed by subscription. The first subparagraph shall also apply to credit ratings that are distributed by subscription. Amendment 70 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. A credit rating agency shall disclose, on ongoing basis, information about all structured finance products submitted for their initial review or a preliminary rating. Such disclosure shall be made whether or not issuers contract with the credit rating agency for a final rating. Justification This will enable investors to determine whether issuers sought, but subsequently decided not to use, ratings from a credit rating agency. This may avoid "rating picking" by issuers. Amendment 71 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 1 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1b. The credit rating agency shall inform the entity subject to rating 12 hours before publication of the result of the rating and of the principal grounds on which the