Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (12 May 2006) At present, the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI) is engaged in the identification of those key infrastructures of European relevance to build or upgrade in the next 15‑20 years. In order to do so, ESFRI has set up in 2005 specific working groups, composed of independent experts, to analyse the needs of different scientific domains and the maturity of the projects under consideration. One of such working groups is currently reviewing projects in the field of Astronomy, Astrophysics and Astroparticle Physics. The results from all the working groups, expected by the Summer of 2006, will form the European Roadmap for Research Infrastructures. The Roadmap will be used by Member States and the Commission as a basis for their strategy for funding research infrastructures in the medium-long term. During the seventh research and technological development (RTD) framework programme, the Commission plans to offer support for the so-called preparatory phase to all research infrastructures on the Roadmap, tailored to their individual needs. Building on the achieved technical, legal, administrative and financial agreements between stakeholders during this preparatory phase, the construction plans would be implemented. The RTD framework programme financial support for the construction phase may be provided to those priority projects for which there is a clear European added-value as well as a critical need for such support. Should the square kilometre array be on the Roadmap, it will have the same possibilities as the other projects. Additionally, it may be of interest to know that the development of critical enabling technologies for the square kilometre array is being supported under the sixth RTD framework programme as a design study in the research infrastructures action. The leading European participants of this international project are the Netherlands and the United Kingdom (UK), with a total budget of about EUR 30 million and EC funding of EUR 10.4 million.