Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (2 February 2009) The Commission is aware of the fact that a number of children are separated from their parents when the latter leave the country in search of better working opportunities. Very little quantitative evidence is available on the issue. However, a recent report Child Rights Based Analysis of children without parental care or at risk of losing parental care General Trends Derived from the Country Situation Analyses; Continental Office CEE/CIS/Baltics May, 2008. by SOS‑Kinderdorf international (a member of Eurochild, an EU network co-financed by the Commission), highlights the recent trend. In this study conducted in 10 CEE/CIS countries (including Bulgaria and Poland), ‘labour migration’ is among the top 10 causes reported by national associations to explain the loss of parental care. Some figures are also available from different sources for Romania A Soros Foundation Romania study compiled in October 2007 estimated that in Romania, some 115 000 secondary students have at least one parent working abroad, 35 000 have both parents abroad, 55 000 have just their mother abroad and 80 000 have just their father abroad. The issue was also highlighted by Save the Children Romania in their submission to the HRC in January 2008. . The 1989 United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of the Child ratified by all the Member States expressly recognises the family, as the fundamental group of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members and particularly children while stating that the child, for the full and harmonious development of his or her personality, should grow up in a family environment. Governments have started to acknowledge the issue, as the following extract from the National Strategy Report of Lithuania on social protection and social inclusion (2008‑10) Page 23 of Report at: http://ec.europa.eu/employment_social/spsi/docs/social_inclusion/2008/nap/lithuania_en.pdf shows: ‘In a few recent years, some children, though formally cared by parents, in reality have been left for some time without parental care while they are in emigration abroad. Such children are left alone or placed under guardianship of relatives (sometimes of non-relatives). This creates unfavourable conditions for children’s development and social integration.’ The Lithuanian Government plans to reform the rules on guardianship as part of its response to the situation. Under the Open Method of Coordination, the Commission provides support for the Member State governments in the coordination of their policies and the exchange of good practice. The 2008 Joint Report on Social Protection and Social Inclusion http://ec.europa.eu/employment_social/spsi/docs/social_inclusion/2008/sec_2008_91_en.pdf highlights the need for the Member States to step up preventive measures targeting the most vulnerable families. This entails providing support for family-strengthening projects and parenting support for families experiencing difficulties in order to counter the risk of premature separation of children from their biological parents. In the 2008‑10 round of national strategy reports, specific attention was paid to children deprived of parental care in general, and this will be reflected in the supporting document for the 2009 joint report, to be released in February 2009. In January 2008, the Social Protection Committee adopted a