Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (30 March 2007) Regarding antidumping measures concerning imports of frozen strawberries from the People's Republic of China, the Commission has carefully analysed all aspects in the course of the proceeding to determine whether antidumping measures would or would not be in the overall Community interest. The Commission has concluded to propose to the Council a definitive antidumping measure on imports of frozen strawberries originating in the People's Republic of China. This measure will consist in a minimum import price. If it is adopted by the Council, this measure will improve the stability and the predictability to the market. One of the major objectives of the common market organisation (CMO) reform proposal is to give to producers the means to improve their competitiveness on fruit and vegetable markets through support to producer organisations (PO). The CMO for fruit and vegetables provides to all producers, irrespective of what they produce, tools to improve their participation in the market. This horizontal approach excludes the adoption of specific measures by product. However, this does not mean that the Commission has not taken into account either the situation of the fruit and vegetables sector in the new Member States or the more specific situation of the sector of soft fruits. In the report from the Commission to the Council and the Parliament on the situation of the sector of soft fruits and cherries intended for processing COM(2006)345 final. , published in June 2006, the Commission identified several factors that contributed to the difficulties faced by the sector. Besides over-production in several sub-sectors and increased imports from third countries in the case of frozen strawberries, the Commission identified that the competitiveness of the sector was constrained in particular by fragmented supply chains in the new Member States (fragmented production and marketing of soft fruits to the processing industry). In the report, the Commission acknowledged that the low level of organisation of the sector was an important constraint and indicated that it might consider additional support for Member States with low levels of organisation in the framework of its proposal for a reform of the CMO. The Honourable Member will have noted that, in the reform proposal the Commission presented to the Council on 29 January 2007 COM(2007)17 final. , it is proposed to increase the level of financing of the Operational Funds of the producer organisations by the Community from 50 % to 60 % in the new Member States and in those Member States where producer organisations market less than 20 % of fruit and vegetables production. The proposal also foresees rules for the preliminary recognition of POs in the new Member States and specific national aid provisions. The Commission is confident that the abovementioned elements regarding the CMO reform will provide useful support to the efforts of the soft fruit sector in Poland and the rest of the EU to develop.