forces in this battle were split up into five battalions.", " The first battalion was Creuzbauer's Battery, 5th Texas Artillery.", " Every soldier in this battalion was born in Germany, and they all migrated to the U.S during the Civil War.", " The second battalion was named Griffin’s Battalion, and was led by Col. William Henry Griffin.", " The third battalion was Spaight’s Battalion, led by Lt. Col. Ashley W. Spaight.", " And the final one was Daly’s Battalion, the only cavalry unit in the battle.", " The U.S.S Wave and the U.S.S Granite City received orders to proceed to Calcasieu Pass.", " When they arrived, immediately bombed an abandoned Confederate fort at the mouth of the river.", " The Gunboats were sent with money to purchase cattle from local southern farmers.", " The U.S.S Granite City ended up stealing cattle and horses from multiple farms.", " This prompted a Confederate attack.", " The local Confederate forces arrived quietly and prepared for a night-time attack on the Union forces.", " When the Union went to sleep, they let less-experienced soldiers man the guns.", " The Confederates seized the opportunity and moved their cannons closer.", " The cannons lined up 1,000 yards away from the gunboats, while the cavalry and foot-soldiers advanced.", " Numerous cannon shells penetrated the gunboat’s hulls.", " While the cavalry and foot-soldiers moved in, the artillery advanced as well, and finished off the vessels.", " On May 8th, Ella Morse, a Union Supply ship did not know of the Union casualties.", " Then brought moved up all the way to the other ships with supplies.", " When she noticed that confederates were manning the guns it was too late.", " They gunned the ship down.", " The Union Forces suffered many casualties.", " They lost the Ella Morse, the U.S.S Granite City, the U.S.S Wave, and the U.S.S New London.", " On the other hand, the Confederates did not lose too many soldiers.", " The Confederates only suffered a few men from each battalion." ] ], [ "Ken Mascara", [ "Ken J. Mascara (born July 8, 1958) is the Sheriff of St. Lucie County, Florida, United States, and is the elected top official of the St. Lucie County Sheriff's Office, one of the largest law enforcement agencies on the Treasure Coast of Florida.", " Ken J. Mascara is the nephew of former congressman Frank R. Mascara, a Democratic politician from Pennsylvania who served four terms in the United States House of Representatives from 1995 to 2003.", " Ken Mascara is also a Democrat.", " First elected in 2000, Mascara is serving his third term as sheriff.", " By a large margin in 2008, he won re-election against his Republican opponent, Robert Grande, to keep his post as sheriff." ] ], [ "Hurricane Celia", [ "Hurricane Celia was the costliest tropical cyclone in Texas history until Hurricane Alicia in 1983.", " The third named storm, second hurricane, and first major hurricane of the 1970 Atlantic hurricane season, Celia developed from a tropical wave in the western Caribbean Sea on July