Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (21 September 2010) In relation to the case referred by the Honourable member, it should be noted that findings on alleged irregularities in the financial management of CEPOL were first made by the Internal Audit Service of the Commission and the European Court of Auditors. Following these findings and in conformity with the obligation set under Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF), OJ L 136, 31.5.1999. , the competent services of the Commission informed the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) which decided to open an investigation. In line with Articles 9.4 and 10.2 of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999, OLAF sent at the end of 2009 its conclusions and recommendations to the President of the Governing Board of CEPOL for disciplinary follow-up and to the British Judicial Authorities for the part related to the facts liable to constitute a penal offence. This is still in the hands of the British authorities. The Governing Board of CEPOL informed OLAF that it found that no disciplinary sanction was available under the circumstance of the case. It should be noted that the Director of CEPOL had resigned. Furthermore, reimbursements have been made and CEPOL has deeply changed its management and put in place a certain number of measures to prevent any potential fraud and corruption. In particular: — new financial rules adopted by the Governing Board; — new recruitment process of the staff; — increase of the number of staff devoted to financial issues; — simplification of internal procedures; — development of performance indicators in order to allow the follow-up and measuring of CEPOL's core business both on qualitative and quantitative plans. The Commission considers that the recent set of measures gives all necessary level of safeguard and monitors their implementation closely.