the reductions and exclusions (Article 51(4)). Furthermore, the Commission shall define a flexibility threshold for each axis (Article 70(1)) and define detailed rules for other forms of support than non-repayable direct assistance (Article 71(5)). The Commission shall fix detailed control rules (Article 74(4)). Finally, the Commission shall adopt specific transitional measures (Article 92(1)). In the case of Article 291 of the Treaty (implementing acts), the Legislator confers power upon the Commission to adopt uniform conditions for legally binding acts of the European Union. Concerning the current Regulation the Legislator gives the Commission powers of enforcement, in accordance with Article 291, paragraph 2 of the Treaty, as regards the uniform conditions for the presentation of rural development programmes (Article 18(3)), programme approval (Article 18(4)), approval of revision of programmes (Article 19(2)), determination of changes requiring approval by Commission decision (Article 19(2)), longer commitment periods (Articles 39(3), 40(2) and 47(1)), specific provisions on designation of areas (Article 50(4)), the establishment and operation of the national rural network (Article 66(3)), presentation of specific annual reports (Article 82(4)), a general framework of controls and a common monitoring and evaluation framework that Member states shall implement (Articles 74(4) and 80). Rapporteur's position on alignment From the point of view of the Rapporteur in this proposal the Commission has done an accurate repartition between more general provisions, establishing additional elements (provisions 290) and more technical elements that are very much connected with the discretion that Member States enjoy in implementing this measure (provisions 291). Therefore no Amendments concerning the proposal for Rural Development (amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) on the classification of delegated and implementing acts are proposed. Generally, the Commission proposal suggests ensuring efficient and targeted use of funds with regard to the treatment of beneficiaries which is mostly covered in the proposal by delegated acts. Other provisions regarding concrete details of programmes, measures and rules are covered in the proposal by implementing acts which are to be adopted by Member States. Simplification Additionally, some elements of simplification are introduced in the current Regulation, Natura 2000 support is extended to areas referred to in Article 10 of Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC) (these are legal elements of the proposal) as well as the number of annual progress and summary reports under Rural Development is reduced, Cross Compliance controls are facilitated and the rules for the use of advisory services are changed (these elements should contribute to ease the administrative burden for the Member States). Besides this as an (legal) element of simplification an incentive element should be introduced for measures approved under Article 43 of the Treaty (co-financed measures within the RD). That means that aid which is granted retroactively in respect of activities which have already been undertaken by the beneficiary and miss the incentive element would therefore be prohibited and a starting date of eligibility should be provided. Rapporteur's position on simplification The Commission proposes to extend to all Member States the current funding possibilities to support the setting up and administrative