: Statutory accounts prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act accounting requirements. § Compromise Scheme : A scheme for compromise between a company and its creditors, or any class of them. § Conduct of Business (C.O.B.) regulation : Regulation relating to the sales processes of the company. § Corley Report : Report of the Corley Committee of Inquiry regarding The Equitable Life Assurance Society (published by the Faculty and Institute of Actuaries in September 2001). § DTI: Department of Trade and Industry. Formerly Board of Trade and Department for Trade. Responsibility for regulation rested with the Board of Trade up to 1970, the Department of Trade & Industry 1970-74, the Department of Trade 1974-83, the Department of Trade & Industry from 1983 to transfer of functions to HM Treasury on 1 January 1999. § Deferred Acquisition Costs : Costs of writing insurance business relating to contracts in-force at the balance sheet date. § Deferred Annuity : An annuity that will provide a policyholder with regular income over the policyholder's lifetime after a specified age has been reached. § Director's Certificate : A certificate provided by the directors of a life office in terms of Schedule 6 to the Insurance Companies (Accounts and Statements) Regulations 1996. § DTBP : Differential Terminal Bonus Policy. § ELAS or ELS: Acronym for the Equitable Life Assurance Society. § EQUI: European Parliament's Committee of inquiry into the collapse of ELAS. § Estate or Free Estate: The balance of admissible assets over mathematical reserves held back from bonus distribution to with profits policyholders as a buffer against major fluctuations in investment values or in underwriting experience or in central costs of administration. § Faculty of Actuaries : The governing body for Scottish actuaries. § Final annuity adjustment : An Equitable Life phrase from the early 1960s denoting the granting of a supplement to a deferred annuity contract at maturity so that the amount of annuity received by applying the GAR to the policy proceeds was the same as would have been obtained if the current annuity rate had been applied to the proceeds before adding the bonus. § First Life Directive: Council directive of 5 March 1979 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of direct life insurance. (No.79/267/EEC) § Form 9 : A summary of the general business and long-term business assets allocated towards the relevant required minimum margin thus showing the company's regulatory solvency position. § FOS: the UK's Financial Ombudsman Service. § FSA: Financial Services Authority. Previously the Securities & Investments Board, the Authority was the agency responsible for regulation of some financial services (and recognition of self-regulating organisations) under the Financial Services Act 1986. It assumed delegated responsibility for insurance regulation in January 1999. Since 1 December 2001 FSA has had statutory responsibility for financial services regulation under the provisions of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. § FSMA: The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. § Future profit implicit item: Item that can be counted, within certain limits, towards