deemed to be elected on the basis of the proposals by the Conference of Presidents, as and where amended pursuant to paragraph 2. 4. Where a political group fails to submit nominations for membership of a committee of inquiry pursuant to paragraph 1 within a time limit set by the Conference of Presidents, the Conference of Presidents shall submit to Parliament only the nominations communicated to it within that time limit. 5. The Conference of Presidents may provisionally decide to fill any vacancy on a committee with the agreement of the persons to be appointed and having regard to paragraph 1. 6. Any such changes shall be placed before Parliament for ratification at the next sitting. Rule 178 Substitutes 1. The political groups and the Non-attached Members may appoint a number of permanent substitutes for each committee equal to the number of full members representing them on the committee. The President shall be informed accordingly. These permanent substitutes shall be entitled to attend and speak at committee meetings and, if the full member is absent, to take part in the vote. 2. In addition, in the absence of the full member and where no permanent substitutes have been appointed or in their absence, the full member of the committee may arrange to be represented at meetings by another member of his political group, who shall be entitled to vote. The name of the substitute shall be notified to the chairman of the committee prior to the beginning of the voting session. Paragraph 2 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the Non-attached Members. The advance notification provided for in the last sentence of paragraph 2 must be given before the end of the debate or before the opening of the vote on the item or items for which the full member is to be replaced. The provisions of this Rule encompass two concepts which are clearly defined by this text: - a political group may not have more permanent substitutes for a committee than it has full members; - only political groups are entitled to appoint permanent substitutes, on the sole condition that they inform the President. To conclude: - the status of permanent substitutes depends exclusively on membership of a given political group; - where the number of a political group's full members in a committee is altered, the maximum number of permanent substitutes which it can appoint to that committee is altered accordingly; - when a Member changes political groups, he may not keep the status of permanent substitute which he had as a member of his original group; - a committee member may not under any circumstances be a substitute for a colleague who belongs to another political group. Rule 179 Duties of committees 1. Standing committees shall examine questions referred to them by Parliament or, during an adjournment of the session, by the President on behalf of the Conference of Presidents. The duties of temporary committees and committees of inquiry shall be defined when they are set up; they shall not be entitled to deliver opinions to other committees. (See