WRITTEN QUESTION P-0157/09 by Aldo Patriciello (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (23 January 2009) Subject: Failure of the Lithuanian Government to publish contract notices free of charge or to publicise them If European firms and individuals are to benefit from the economic opportunities made available by the EU, it is essential for contract notices to be published appropriately. It should be possible for any citizen who asks to consult such notices to do so free of charge, to preclude any form of economic discrimination. Certain Italian investors, after having examined the feasibility of constructing a number of wind farms in the vicinity of Klaipeda, in northern Lithuania, drew up an investment project in the renewable energy production sector. The construction of wind farms in Lithuania is subject to public procurement procedures, even if prospective investors do not require public, Community or national funding. Yet the relevant contract notice is a prior information notice which is published only on the ministry’s site and can only be viewed against payment of LTL 2 000 (i.e. around EUR 600). Despite an official request by the Italian Ambassador in Vilnius, and even though the time limit for the contract notice has expired, up to now the Lithuanian Ministry has refused to make available or publish the contract notice. Does the Commission agree that there is a problem concerning the failure to publicise contract notices adequately or to make them available free of charge? Does the Commission agree that if such contract notices are requested after the stated time limit, as happened in the case of the request by our Embassy, the contract notices should be provided? Does the Commission agree that there is a cartel operating in Lithuania, since it has partially privatised and unbundled distribution from production but all those holding assets in the sector are members of the same consortium, to which the Lithuanian electricity company also belongs, and consequently they decide who may or may not invest in the sector and whom they will or will not allow to become connected to the national electricity network?