1979. Jens-Peter BONDE (IND/DEM, DK), a defeated candidate for President, said: "it was no great surprise that Mr Poettering had won the election". Nevertheless, he reiterated his campaigning themes of fairer representation, one seat for the Parliament, better preparation of votes and improving debates within Parliament. For the newly formed ITS group, Bruno GOLLNISCH (ITS, FR) also stressed the importance of an impartial President and all of the MEPs' rights should be respected fully including the right to Parliamentary immunity. Irena BELOHORSKÁ, for the non-attached MEPs, called on Mr Poettering to show patience, to recognise that the EU now had 27 Member States and to "end the discrimination against non attached MEPs:" José Manuel BARROSO, President of the Commission said: "On my own behalf and on behalf of the European Commission, I want to congratulate you very sincerely. It gives me great pleasure to see you as President of the European Parliament. Today the European Parliament has elected a new leader whose qualities as a person and as a politician are uniquely well suited to this high office. I know the President as a person of political vision and integrity – qualities that will be needed in this very challenging job. As the leader of your group, for eight years you have pursued your vision of political Europe as the only guarantee for a peaceful and prosperous Europe. Your attachment to the core values of justice, human rights, the dignity of the human person, have, for so many years, been the hallmark of your work. I want to highlight your fairness to everybody, from your insistence that everybody must be treated equally within Parliament, to the view that, in the European Union, no one country is bigger than another. We have all appreciated your honesty and transparency: with Mr Poettering you know that a done deal is a done deal and one which he will honour and respect." Mr President, allow me to highlight what I think will be a special responsibility for your mandate. You are the first President elected in this Parliament after this great enlargement of the European Union. That is why this is a truly historic moment: the first President elected by a Parliament representing the citizens of 27 countries! No other parliament in the world can compare to this." Profile of Hans-Gert Poettering Hans-Gert Poettering has been a Member of the European Parliament since the first direct elections in 1979. He was born on 15 September 1945 in Bersenbrück (Lower Saxony). After studying law, politics and history in Bonn, Geneva and New York (doctorate 1974), her worked from 1976 to 1979 as an academic employee before being elected to the European Parliament for the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) as deputy for the region Osnabrück, Emsland, Ostfriesland. In 1995, he was appointed Honorary professor and since 1999 he has been a Member of the Executive Committee and Federal Executive of CDU in Germany. For the 2004 European elections he was Head of CDU list for Germany and Lower Saxony. From 1984 to 1994 he was chairman of the