concluded cooperation protocols with these two committees laying down the principles of proper administration and cooperation procedures. The aim of the protocols is to enhance the committees' advisory function. For example, the Commission may ask them to deliver exploratory opinions about subjects falling within their purview. Another important aspect of consultation is the institutionalisation of the social dialogue in Europe. Recognition and facilitation of consultation with organisations representing employees and employers is important for the enhancement of horizontal subsidiarity in the European Union. The current proposal by the European Convention to enshrine the role of the two sides of industry in the European Constitution should therefore be warmly welcomed. 4. THE USE OF EXPERTS In its communication on the collection and use of expertise by the Commission Communication from the Commission on the collection and use of expertise by the Commission: principles and guidelines - Improving the knowledge base for better policies ( COM(2002) 713 final). , the Commission states that it wishes to use external experts in a more structured manner. The three basic principles to be applied here are openness, effectiveness and quality. The communication states a number of guidelines which are not legally binding but should bring about a certain measure of harmonisation and clarity in the use of experts. The guidelines concern such topics as the selection of experts and publishing the results. External expertise makes an important contribution to the legislative process in the European Union. However, the Commission has a very dense and complex structure of committees within which such external experts are used. The experts are consulted at a very early stage in the legislative process, often to consider highly controversial subjects. The consequence of this structure is that openness and transparency are lacking and that it is virtually impossible to gain a clear overview of the network or to coordinate it. This situation is one of the main causes of the democratic deficit in the European Union. Measures to standardise the use of external experts are a good step forward, but if one genuinely wishes to attain transparency and comprehensibility, it will be necessary to reform the whole system of committees and groups of experts with the aim of rendering it clearer both to the public and to the institutions and Member States participating in the policy-making process. Holding meetings of groups of experts in public is a first step towards this. It is also important to publish the evidence and the way in which it is used in the policy-making process. This can be done, for example, in the form of summaries for Members of the European Parliament which make it possible to follow the whole process, including minority positions and the uncertainties which have been faced. This could shed light on the way in which fundamental policy choices are made. Such transparency is essential to enable the European Parliament to perform its role as co-legislator. Democracy, after all, is conditional on the guarantee of transparency. In this way the European Parliament explicitly opts for parliamentary democracy and not for a 'democracy of