WRITTEN QUESTION E-6539/08 by Marco Cappato (ALDE) and Marco Pannella (ALDE) to the Commission (5 December 2008) Subject: The case of Gratian Gruia and the implementation of the agreement between Italy and Romania on the repatriation of unaccompanied minors Gratian Gruia, a boy of Romanian origin born on 21 March 2005, was found in Rome on 25 May 2007 in a terrible state, having been abused by his father and abandoned by his mother. He was entrusted into care, and on 28 May 2008 the Public Prosecutor of the Juvenile Court requested and obtained the termination of parental responsibility of both the father and mother, initiating proceedings before the Rome Juvenile Court for a declaratory judgment as to the abandonment of little Gratian. During the proceedings before the Rome Court Romania filed an appearance, requesting the return of the little boy on the basis of the agreement between the Italian and Romanian Governments, signed on 9 June 2008, on cooperation relating to the protection of unaccompanied Romanian minors present in Italy. On 8 July 2008, the Juvenile Court granted the request for repatriation with a judgment, criticised as being insufficiently justified, that ordered ‘the handing over of the minor to the Romanian authorities for his assisted repatriation’. Once in Bucharest, little Gratian was apparently taken away by a male person who did not speak Italian, the only language known to Gratian. The agreement between Italy and Romania provides for a central coordinating body for the safeguarding of unaccompanied EU minors. This body should be responsible for the exchange of information between parties, thereby ensuring the safeguarding of the children concerned and their rights during repatriation. Such a body did not, however, oversee Gratian's case. How many and which agreements of this kind exist between Member States? Is the Commission aware of other similar cases? Does the Commission not consider it necessary to ensure that the repatriation and expatriation of minors in the EU takes place with the strictest and utmost respect for the guarantees and procedures established by international and bilateral agreements, ensuring in particular that minors' interests take precedence and that minors can, if repatriated, reintegrate in the best possible way? Does the Commission intend to take any action in this regard?