applicable in 2004. The abovementioned directives are addressed to the Member States. According to the subsidiarity principle, Member States have the primary obligation to implement and enforce the said legal requirements. The competent United Kingdom authority, Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, MHRA, discovered that Daval´s contract manufacturer did not comply with GMP requirements and other given legal obligations. MHRA was therefore not in the position to issue a manufacturing authorisation. If the company takes corrective actions and MHRA confirms that issues of GMP non-compliance are resolved, the company may be authorised to manufacture Aimspro in the future. On 20 November 2005, new legal requirements will come into effect concerning the early use of new medicinal therapies. With the new Regulation (EC) No 726/2004, the Parliament and the Council have implemented specific provisions for accelerated assessment procedures for medicinal products of major therapeutic interest and procedures for obtaining temporary authorisations subject to certain annually reviewable conditions. The main objective of these new requirements is to meet, in particular, the legitimate expectations of patients and to take account of the increasingly rapid progress of science and therapies. Some patients may wish to benefit from new medicinal products at an early stage, before a marketing authorisation has been issued. In this sense Member States may allow the application of such products for ‘compassionate’ reasons. With the new regulation situations, criteria and conditions for the use of a non-registered medicinal product under compassionate use have been set up. Medicinal treatment for multiple sclerosis, would fall under the conditions. One provision is that the product must be subject to an application for a marketing authorisation or must be undergoing clinical trials. The new regulatory framework should enhance an equal access to compassionate use programmes for European patients.