Convention has made important proposals on amendment of the treaties and institutional reform, G. whereas the drafting of a European constitution by the Convention on a new institutional structure, particularly for foreign policy, and a reduction and simplification of the number of types of legal act, will make an important contribution to improving European governance, and as such should be adopted by the Intergovernmental Conference, H. whereas the number of advisory bodies which assist the Commission is very large and it is not easy to keep track of them all, which means that the European Parliament is insufficiently able to monitor the legislative process, and whereas the Commission still does not publish a full list of the committees and working groups involved in formal and permanent consultation, 1. Is satisfied with the proposals which the Commission has made with regard to the various topics from the White Paper, and expresses its appreciation of the method of public consultation which the Commission has used in this connection; draws attention to the fact, however, that such consultation must not slow the process down; 2. Calls for more interinstitutional cooperation between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission in order to implement the action points from the White Paper on European Governance; Improving legislation 3. Supports the Commission's proposal to reduce the volume of legislation by repealing legal acts and by means of a programme of consolidation and codification; notes, however, that the reduction in the volume of legislation must not be achieved at the expense of the Community acquis, which forms an essential element in the present European Union; 4. Reiterates its view that improving the quality of legislation, transparency and the opening up of the institutions to so-called 'organised civil society', to professional, trade union and business sectors and to citizens as a whole cannot be a substitute for citizens' access to public power by means of open and increasingly democratic electoral processes. 5. Urges that the improvement of the bond between citizens and the European Union's institutions should be achieved primarily by increasing Parliament's legislative powers, through uniform electoral legislation to provide increasingly direct communication between Members of the European Parliament and their voters and by means of genuine transparency in the work, sessions and proceedings of the Council, at least as far as its legislative function is concerned. 6. Considers that the introduction of an ex-ante impact assessment ('citizens' criterion') as a non-legal instrument for assessing the social, ecological and economic impact of legislative proposals on people's everyday life can be a good way of placing members of the public at centre-stage in the European policy-making process; 7. Stresses the important role which may be played in the integration of the European Union by citizens acting together in the form of social organisations. Greater involvement 8. Notes that, although the EUR-Lex portal has become more user-friendly and contains more documents, there is still not a single uniform on-line contact point for all institutions where members of the public can monitor the formulation of policy proposals throughout the whole decision-making process;