in the form of bonuses applied to their respective policies. § Non-GAR : Any Equitable with-profits contract that did not contain an annuity guarantee or GAR. Upon vesting, the annuitant receives an annual income derived by using the insurer's current annuity rate, which will be derived by reference to underlying market rates for fixed interest securities. § Orphan assets : In general terms, assets held by a financial institution that are not immediately attributable to a depositor or investor. In pension and life funds the term is used loosely to describe those assets held in excess of the expected liabilities. § Penrose report : report undertaken by Lord Penrose on the ELS affair. § PIA Ombudsman : The independent complaints handling agency for resolving complaints by investors against firms which were regulated by the PIA. § PIA: Personal Investment Authority. A self-regulating organisation recognised by the SIB (later FSA) under the Financial Services Act 1986. § PIA Review: A review on the mis-selling of personal pensions for the period 29 April 1988 to 30 June 1994. § PPFM: Principles and Practice of Financial Management. Document describing policy for management of with-profits business which FSA now requires life offices to prepare. § Policy Document : A document that sets out the terms and conditions of the insurance contract. § Policyholder: The person who is the legal holder of the policy for securing the contract with the insurance company. § Policy Value: The full current value of the policy. The value of a participating policy will include the value of bonuses assuming the policy will continue until maturity has been reached. This is not the same as the cash value. § PRE: Policyholders Reasonable Expectations. Introduced in the Insurance Companies (Amendment) Act 1973. Powers were bestowed to protect policyholders against the risk of a company's inability to fulfil the reasonable expectations of a policyholder. § Prudential regulation : Regulation concerning itself with the overall solvency of the company. § Quasi-Zillmer Adjustment : A modified Zillmerisation technique adopted by the Society with respect to their regulatory valuation. § Rectification Scheme : Scheme for compensating former policyholders introduced by the Society in response to the Hyman decision. § Resilience Test: A requirement for prudent provision to be made against the effects of possible future changes in the value of assets on the adequacy of these assets to meet liabilities. The reserves required to satisfy the resilience test are known as the resilience reserves. § RMM: Required Minimum Margin of Solvency. § RSP: Recurrent Single Premium. Refers to contracts that did not require regular policy premiums to be paid. § Regulatory or Required Solvency : The financial status of an insurance company whose admissible assets exceed their liabilities including mathematical reserves. The difference is called the margin of solvency and must be greater than the greater of the “required minimum margin of solvency” and the “guarantee fund”. § Reinsurance : An arrangement with another insurer (a reinsurance company) whereby risks are shared for an agreed fee. It enables insurance companies to accept large or unusual risks and