that developing countries participate actively in every stage of the programme and the focus should be on developing programmes and activities in the developing countries. Amendment 29 Annex, point 2 2. Activities linked directly to the development of new products against the three diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis): ∙ support for clinical trials in the developing countries; ∙ strengthening of capacities in the developing countries. 2. Activities linked directly to the development of new products and the improvement of existing products against the three diseases (HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis): ∙ support for clinical trials in the developing countries; ∙ strengthening of capacities in the developing countries. ∙ facilitating access by developing countries to products developed under the EDCTP programme. ∙ support for transfer of technology to the developing countries. In preparing the clinical trials for new action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, co-existing infections shall be taken into account. The new products shall be developed in such a way as to be suited to the specific requirements of the developing countries i.e. they must be effective, easy to use, adapted to the specific conditions and as cheap as possible, so that people in developing countries can afford to buy them. Justification Transfer of technology is an indispensable element of any solution that claims to be efficient and sustainable. Conditions of life, and therefore of care and treatment, of people affected by HIV/AIDS, malaria and/or tuberculosis in developing countries radically differ from developed countries. Clinical trials are only one stage in the development of a drug. The decision to embark on clinical development under the EDCTP programme must also take into account, therefore, the relevant countries’ potential access to new treatments (in terms of production, distribution, etc.). Conditions of life, and therefore of care and treatment, of people affected by HIV/AIDS, malaria and/or tuberculosis in developing countries radically differ from developed countries: for example, practical aspects such as keeping drugs refrigerated and taking doses with food. This crucial element needs to be taken into account throughout the R&D process to avoid having an end-product that is unusable or unaffordable. Women playing roles as carers and educators in many communities must be consulted to this effect. Also, only by supporting developing countries to implement a proper technical infrastructure will a way be found to sustainability and self-sufficiency on these issues. Amendment 30 Annex, point 3, indent 2 a (new) ∙ annual reporting on implementation of the programme, with special attention to its public-interest value. Justification The EDCTP must use a working method that encourages private investors to invest in neglected diseases. Amendment 31 Annex I a (new) Description of the EDCTP’s model of governance, including the common structure This model shall comprise the following: 1. A ‘Partnership Council’ which shall define, develop and plan the implementation of strategy. The Council shall include a balanced contingent of experts from the participating European States and from the developing countries involved in the programme. It shall also include two representatives of the Commission and experts from the public or private structures involved in the programme and from