Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (23 May 2007) The Commission takes note of the concern expressed by the Honourable Member related to the situation of children who are abandoned in hospitals in Romania. According to independent national data, 2580 children were abandoned in hospitals in 2005. In the context of Romania's efforts to comply with the Copenhagen criteria for EU membership, child protection policy has undergone significant change in recent years. According to the information available to the Commission, reforms have focused on staff training, decentralisation of service provision, establishment of cooperation structures between local authorities and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) active in the field of child protection, social integration of street children and children leaving institutional care. The de-institutionalisation represents a continuous process, initiated in 1997, and intensified after 2000. Supporting figures are stated in the attached table which is sent directly to the Honourable Member and to Parliament's Secretariat. Recent results include the establishment of 88 alternative child protection services, of 45 day centres by local authorities following the closure of 36 childcare institutions, and of 47 centres for social assistance and child protection throughout Romania. In addition, Romania is currently implementing programmes to develop community social services for children and families in order to prevent separation of children from their family and promote family (re)integration. The Commission recalls that the responsibility for child protection, social inclusion of children and provision of child and care services falls with Member States. For its part, the Commission encourages exchange of good practice and policy coordination through the open method of coordination in the field of social protection and social inclusion. The 2007 joint report on social protection and social inclusion shows that Member States have responded to the request of the European Council of March 2006 to take measures to eradicate child poverty and give equal opportunities to all children. The recent European Council of March 2007 reiterated the importance of combating child poverty.