the operations financed and those which the Community and the Member States propose to finance; (b) on-the-spot coordination of the implementation of operations through regular meetings and exchanges of information between the representatives of the Commission and the Member States in the recipient country. Amendment 27 Article 15 The budgetary authority shall determine the appropriations available for each financial year taking account of the principles of sound financial management referred to in Article 2 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. 1. The financial framework for the implementing this Regulation for the period from 2001 to 2004 shall be EUR 200 million. 2. The annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limits of the financial perspective. Separate vote Article 17, paragraph 2 2. Where the supplementary commitment referred to in paragraph 1 is less than 8 million euro, the committee referred to in Article 18(1) shall be informed of the Commission's decision. Where the supplementary commitment is greater than 8 million euro but less than 20%, the committee will be asked to give its opinion. Deleted Amendment 28 Article 19, paragraph 1 1. An exchange of views shall take place once a year on the basis of a presentation by the representative of the Commission of the general guidelines for the operations to be carried out in the year ahead, within the Committee referred to in Article 18(1). 1. An exchange of views shall take place once a year on the basis of a presentation by the representative of the Commission of the strategic guidelines for the operations to be carried out in the years ahead, within the Committee referred to in Article 18(1). The guidelines shall include, as far as possible, measurable objectives and deadlines for specific actions. These guidelines shall be drawn up following consultation with departments responsible, in the field or at headquarters, for programming, implementation and evaluation. Amendment 29 Article 19, paragraph 2 2. After each budget year, the Commission shall submit an annual report to the European Parliament and to the Council, summarising the operations financed in the course of that year and the Commission's conclusions on the implementation of this Regulation over the previous budget year. The summary shall in particular provide information about those with whom contracts have been concluded. The annual report shall also summarise any independent evaluations of specific operations. 2. After each budget year, the Commission shall submit, in its annual report on Community development policy to the European Parliament and to the Council, information on the operations financed in the course of that year and the Commission's conclusions on the implementation of this Regulation over the previous budget year. The summary shall in particular provide information about the strengths and weaknesses of operations, those with whom contracts have been concluded as well as the results of any independent evaluations of specific operations. Amendment 30 Article 19, paragraph 3 3. Every three years, the Commission shall submit an evaluation report on the implementation of this Regulation to the European Parliament and the