PPE Group, Kristian Vigenin , on behalf of the S&D Group, Ivo Vajgl , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Charles Tannock , on behalf of the ECR Group , who also replied to a blue-card question by Bernd Posselt , Ulrike Lunacek , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group , who also replied to a blue-card question by Bernd Posselt , Takis Hadjigeorgiou , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Nigel Farage , on behalf of the EFD Group, Andrew Henry William Brons , Non-attached Member, Othmar Karas , Tanja Fajon , Nikolaos Salavrakos , Gunnar Hökmark , Kinga Göncz , Alojz Peterle and Daniel Caspary . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Zuzana Roithová , Jelko Kacin , Silvia-Adriana Ţicău , Franz Obermayr , Eduard Kukan and Csaba Sógor . The following spoke: Štefan Füle . IN THE CHAIR: László TŐKÉS Vice-President The following spoke: Mikołaj Dowgielewicz . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 1.12.2011, item 6.19 and minutes of 1.12.2011, item 6.20 . 16 European semester for economic policy coordination (debate) Report on the European Semester for Economic Policy Coordination [ 2011/2071(INI) ] - Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Rapporteur: Pervenche Berès ( A7-0384/2011 ) Pervenche Berès introduced the report. The following spoke: Jacek Dominik (President-in-Office of the Council) and Olli Rehn (Vice-President of the Commission) . The following spoke: László Surján (rapporteur for the opinion of the BUDG Committee), Olle Ludvigsson (rapporteur for the opinion of the EMPL Committee), Bernadette Vergnaud (rapporteur for the opinion of the IMCO Committee), Michael Theurer (rapporteur for the opinion of the REGI Committee) who also replied to a blue-card question by Hans-Peter Martin , Hannu Takkula (rapporteur for the opinion of the CULT Committee), Rafał Trzaskowski (rapporteur for the opinion of the AFCO Committee), Marije Cornelissen (rapporteur for the opinion of the FEMM Committee), Jean-Paul Gauzès , on behalf of the PPE Group, Elisa Ferreira , on behalf of the S&D Group, Carl Haglund , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Vicky Ford , on behalf of the ECR Group, Nikolaos Chountis , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Juozas Imbrasas , on behalf of the EFD Group, Hans-Peter Martin , Non-attached Member, Danuta Maria Hübner , Antolín Sánchez Presedo . IN THE CHAIR: Giles CHICHESTER Vice-President The following spoke: Bruno Gollnisch and Roberto Gualtieri . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Danuta Jazłowiecka , Andreas Mölzer and Othmar Karas . The following spoke: Olli Rehn , Jacek Dominik and Pervenche Berès . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 1.12.2011, item 6.24 . 17 Financing instrument for development cooperation - banana accompanying measures ***III - Establishment of a financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised countries ***III - Financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide ***III - Financing instrument for development cooperation ***III (debate) Report on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation [00059/2011 -