P5_TA(2000)0500 Improving mutual assistance in criminal matters * A5-0314/2000 Initiative of the French Republic with a view to adopting a Convention on improving mutual assistance in criminal matters, in particular in the area of combating organised crime, laundering of the proceeds from crime and financial crime (10213/2000 - C5-0394/2000 - 2000/0815(CNS) ) The proposal was amended as follows: Text proposed by the French Republic OJ C 243, 24.8.2000, p. 11. Amendments by Parliament (Amendment 1) Recital 2a (new) HAVING REGARD TO the Geneva appeal of 1 October 1996, (Amendment 8) Article 3 A Member State may not invoke the provisions on confidentiality applicable to banking activities and other commercial activities in order to refuse to implement a request for mutual assistance from another Member State . A Member State may not, in order to refuse to implement a request for mutual assistance, invoke the provisions on confidentiality applicable to banking activities and other commercial activities or to the financial advice activities of lawyers working in private practice or as members of legal partnerships or of members of a regulated legal profession, which by nature are not covered by professional secrecy. (Amendment 3) Article 8(1) 1. With regard to prosecutions of or investigations into serious organised crime or laundering of the proceeds of crime, mutual assistance requested pursuant to the provisions of the applicable cooperation instrument may be refused only where the requested Member State considers that implementation of the request is likely to jeopardise its essential interests . 1. With regard to prosecutions of or investigations into serious organised crime or laundering of the proceeds of crime, the requested Member State may make compliance with the request for mutual assistance pursuant to the provisions of the applicable cooperation instrument contingent solely upon the conditions governing the protection of fundamental rights and guarantees which must be observed in a national case of a similar nature . (Amendment 4) Article 8(2) 2. A Member State which invokes these grounds for refusing mutual assistance shall give written reasons for its decision and inform the requesting Member State of those reasons. If, however, the requesting Member State maintains its request and no solution can be found, the reasoned decision to refuse the request shall be forwarded to the Council for information by the requested Member State, for possible consideration in the context of a subsequent evaluation at the level of the European Union of the operation of this Convention. 2. A Member State which refuses the request for mutual assistance on grounds of its incompatibility with the fundamental guarantees enshrined in its domestic law shall give written reasons for its decision and inform the requesting Member State of those reasons within two months of receipt of the request by the competent institution . If, however, the requesting Member State maintains its request and no solution can be found, the reasoned decision to refuse the request shall be forwarded to the Council for information by the requested Member State, for possible consideration in the context of a subsequent evaluation at the level of the European Union of