existence of a direct or indirect risk to human health deriving from food or feed products , this information shall be immediately notified to the Authority and to the Commission under the rapid alert system. Amendment 162 Article 49, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 The Authority shall establish whether , on the basis of the notification, the product in question presents a serious risk to human health, necessitating rapid action. If this is the case , it shall transmit this information immediately via the rapid alert system . It may supplement the notification with any scientific or technical information, which will facilitate rapid, appropriate action by the Member States. If the Authority considers that , on the basis of the notification, the product in question presents a risk to human health and necessitates rapid action, it shall determine the nature and the extent of the action and transmit this information immediately to the Commission. The latter shall decide whether or not the Member States should be notified. If it decides that such notification is required the Authority shall immediately forward the information to the Member States . It may also supplement the notification with any scientific or technical information, which will facilitate rapid, appropriate action by the Member States. Amendment 163 Article 49, paragraph 3 3. Where a national competent authority is notified by a food business operator pursuant to Article 14(2) or by a feed business operator pursuant to Article 15(2), it shall, after verification, inform the Authority via the rapid alert system. The Authority shall thereafter act as laid down in paragraph 2. 3. Where a national competent authority is notified by a food business operator pursuant to Article 14(2) or by a feed product business operator pursuant to Article 15(2), it shall, after urgent verification, inform the Commission via the rapid alert system. The Authority shall thereafter act as laid down in paragraph 2. Amendment 164 Article 49, paragraph 4, subparagraph 1, introductory part 4. Without prejudice to other Community legislation, the Member States shall immediately notify the Authority under the rapid alert system of: 4. Without prejudice to other Community legislation, the Member States shall immediately notify the Commission under the rapid alert system of: Amendment 166 Article 49, paragraph 4, subparagraph 3 The Authority shall immediately transmit to members of the network the notification and supplementary information received under the first and second subparagraphs. The Commission shall immediately transmit to members of the network the notification and supplementary information received under the first and second subparagraphs. Amendment 169 Article 50 The measures for implementing Article 49 shall be adopted by the Commission, after consulting the Authority, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2) . These measures shall specify, in particular, the specific conditions and procedures applicable to the transmission of notifications and supplementary information and the specific rules applicable to information transmitted by business operators. The measures for implementing Article 49 shall be adopted by the Commission, after discussion with the Authority, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2). These measures shall