over a 20-year period beginning about 1978." ] ], [ "Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University", [ "Pir Mehr Ali Shah Arid Agriculture University, Rawalpindi (PMAS-Arid University) is in Rawalpindi, Punjab, Pakistan.", " In the 1970s, the government of Punjab established an agricultural college in Rawalpindi for the development of rain-fed agriculture.", " The college was upgraded to the level of university in 1994.", " The university is currently ranked at No. 2 in Agriculture/Veterinary category as per the HEC and 7th overall in ranking of universities in Pakistan.", " Arid Agriculture University offers a number of degree programmes leading to Bachelor, Master and Ph.D. in disciplines including Food Science & Technology, Computer Sciences, Management Sciences, Pure Sciences, Agriculture, Veterinary & Animal Sciences, Social Sciences and other Arts and Fine Arts programs." ] ], [ "David Culler", [ "David Ethan Culler (born November 12, 1959) is a computer scientist and former Chair of the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences at the University of California, Berkeley.", " He is a Principal Investigator in the Software Defined Buildings (SDB) project at the EECS Department at Berkeley and the Faculty Director of the i4Energy Center.", " His research addresses networks of small, embedded wireless devices, planetary-scale internet services, parallel computer architecture, parallel programming languages, and high performance communication.", " This includes TinyOS, Berkeley Motes, PlanetLab, Networks of Workstations (NOW), Internet services, Active Message, Split-C, and the Threaded Abstract Machine (TAM)." ] ], [ "University of Maine", [ "The University of Maine (also referred to as UMaine, Maine or UMO) is a public research university in Orono, Maine, United States.", " The university was established in 1865 as a land grant college and is the flagship university of the University of Maine System.", " The University of Maine is one of only nine land, sea and space grant institutions in the nation." ] ], [ "E. M. V. Krishnamurthy", [ "Edayyathu Mangalam Venkatarama Krishnamurthy (18 June 1934 - 26 October 2012) was an Indian-born computer scientist.", " He was a professor at the Department of Computer science, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore.", " He was an Emeritus Fellow, Computer Sciences Laboratory, Research School of Information Sciences and Engineering, Australian National University, Canberra." ] ], [ "University of Chakwal", [ "The University of Chakwal was established in 2015.", " The university offers a 4-year Bachelor's degree in basic sciences, social sciences, management sciences and computer sciences.", " It is a project by the Horizon College Chakwal.", " It is the Chakwal's first private university and is located in Chakwal City, at the main Bhaun Road." ] ] ] }