their number should be limited . Justification The GPMB should be formally provided for in the legal basis. It should have a clear remit and, to enable it to operate efficiently and cost-effectively, it should be staffed by a limited number of permanent experts. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6) A technical contingency plan for attaining SIS II functionalities should be foreseen. The description of the technical components of the migration architecture therefore should be adapted to allow for another technical solution regarding the development of Central SIS II. (6) It is necessary to adapt the legal framework to allow for migration to a possible alternative technical solution i f tests show that SIS II cannot be implemented successfully . The description of the technical components of the migration architecture should be adapted to allow for another technical solution regarding the development of Central SIS II. Any alternative technical solution should be based on the best available technology and should be cost-effective and implemented in accordance with a precise and reasonable timetable. The Commission should present a thorough budgetary asse s sment of the costs associated with such an alternative technical solution in a timely fashion. It should be explicitly stated that the legal framework established by Regulation (EC) No 1987/2006 applies to every solution, regardless of its technical nature . Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 16 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( 16 a ) As the European Parliamen t is responsible , as co-legislator , for the establishment , operation , and use of SIS II as laid down in Regul ation (EC) No 1987/2006, and as th e migration is financed from the Union budget, for which the European Parliament is also co-responsible , the European Parliament should be integrated in the decision-making process concerning migration . A favourable opinion from the European Parliament, on the basis of information provided by the Commission on the test results, should be required before the switch - over to a new Schengen Information System . Justification Matters relating to SIS II have fallen under the codecision procedure since 1 January 2005. The migration process is being financed from the EU budget, for which Parliament shares the responsibility. It follows that decisions concerning the migration should no longer be taken by the Commission and/or Council alone; on the contrary, Parliament should participate in the decision-making. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point -1 (new) Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 Article 1 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( - 1) Article 1 ( 1 ) is replaced by the follow i n g: “ 1. The Schengen Information System (SIS), set up pursuant to the provisions of Title IV of the 1990 Schengen Convention (SIS 1+), shall be replaced by a new system, the Schengen Information System II (SIS II) or any alte r native technical solution which is based on the best available technology