information and auditors' reports. 3. Conduct of Business (CoB) Regulation The purpose of the Conduct of Business rules in the life assurance business can be defined as ensuring that: · retail insurance products offered on the market are suitable to investors · investors understand all risks involved in the policy they take out · advertisements for insurance products are fair, clear and not misleading in their message · performance forecasts are based on adequate justifications. In the late 1980s, the Conduct of Business (CoB) regulation was governed by the " Financial Services Act" of 1986 , which had replaced the " Prevention of Fraud Investments Act " of 1958 and established a regulatory regime for the carrying on of retail investment business. Operators had either to obtain authorisation from the Securities & Investments Board (SIB), the core of the later Financial Services Authority, or to become a member of a Self-regulating Organisation (SRO) which supervised members by reference to their own rule books. Thus, SROs derived their power from their contractual relationship with their members and regulated independent financial advisers or other subjects related to the marketing of retail investment products to the general public. SRO dealt also with complaints about mis-selling. However, " if an SRO were to expel a life office from membership, the effect would not be to deprive it of its authorisation to carry on insurance business or to sell its policies but merely to transfer the life office to the care of the SIB." (ES-2) The Financial Services Act of 1986 had designated two particular SRO for Conduct of Business supervision The UK and Ireland were "the only MS to have CoB regulators who operated separately from the prudential supervisors; their powers were strictly limited and they were regarded as the junior partner in supervision" (ES-1, page 6). : - LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation) - FIMBRA (Financial Intermediaries Manager and Broker Regulatory Association) In 1994 these were merged into the PIA Equitable Life was a member of LAUTRO, joining PIA in July 1994. ( Personal Investment Authority ) which from 1998 onwards, contracted out its functions to the FSA, in anticipation of the latter becoming the sole prudential and conduct of business supervising authority. The relationship of the prudential supervisor with the conduct of business supervisor was critical in the UK, while close cooperation and information-sharing was vital to ensuring proper supervision of insurance companies. As a condition for recognition as an SRO, PIA had to be “ able and willing to promote and maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing in the carrying of investment business and to co-operate, by the sharing of information and otherwise, with the Secretary of State and any other authority, body or person having responsibility for the supervision or regulation of investment business or other financial services .” see ES-2, chapter 9. While CoB concerns could be symptomatic of spotting a wider malaise in the company, which needed to be pursued by the prudential supervisor, the CoB regulators also had an interest in any prudential problems