for administrative costs generated by applications for authorisations could cover part of the funding of the agencies; 7. Points out that the newly adopted (paediatric medicines) and forthcoming (advanced therapy medicinal products) legislation and other new policies, such as activities relating to pandemics, will increase the workload and tasks of the European Medicines Agency (EMEA); stresses that the Agency must be provided with adequate financial means to enable it to cope with the new tasks; 8. Considers that, in order to enable the EMEA to implement the new Paediatrics legislation which will enter into force at the end of 2006 and which has not been taken into account in the Commission proposal for 2007, the total EMEA budget for 2007 needs to be increased; 9. Welcomes the increased attention given to the integration of environmental concerns into other policy areas, in particular in Heading 1a (eco-innovation measures under Research and the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme) and in Heading 4 (Thematic programme for Environment and sustainable management of natural resources); looks forward to tangible results from this approach; points out that this approach should not, however, lead to the dilution of environment policy financing; urges DG ENV to work in close cooperation with other DGs in order to ensure that the opportunities for policy integration and synergies are fully utilised; 10. Calls for a standard use of environmental criteria in procurement procedures involving Community appropriations, such as invitations to tender and awarding contracts; 11. Calls on the Commission to compile a report on its efforts, so as to increase awareness of the Sixth Environment Action Programme and its agreed content of thematic strategies within the Commission itself. SHORT JUSTIFICATION Year 2007 is the first year of the new seven-year financial framework agreed upon by the European Parliament and the Council in April. Inevitably, the consequences of the deal materialise in the preliminary draft budget for 2007. Despite the broad consensus in favour of an agreement, however insufficient it was considered from the outset, it is clear that the practical implications of the deal will cause serious concerns. The environment, public health and food safety policy areas are also affected, but in different ways. The new financial framework places the environment policy area under Heading 2, together with agriculture, rural development and fisheries. The biggest practical change is that a number of current instruments and initiatives (LIFE, NGO funding, Forest Focus, policy implementation and development support budget lines) are gathered under one programme, the new LIFE+. Moreover, the current Civil Protection and Marine Pollution programmes are incorporated in the new Rapid Response Preparedness Instrument. The third novelty is the transfer of most external activities (like the current LIFE Third countries) to the instruments managed by DGs responsible for external policies. From a financial point of view, the resources for the environment policy area will slightly (+7%) increase in 2007 compared to 2006. However, the big increase in the form of earmarking funds within LIFE+ for the management of Natura 2000, as the Parliament hoped for in first reading, did not take place. Parliament had