Question for written answer P-008791/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Marta Andreasen (EFD) (11 October 2011) Subject: Structural Fund assistance to Liverpool City Council for a cruise terminal The City of Liverpool Cruise Terminal is owned by Liverpool City Council. It was partly funded with GBP 8.62 million from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), with another GBP 9.20 million from UK public-sector sources. A condition of the funding package is that the terminal should only be used for ‘port of call’ visits and not for ‘turnaround’ (i.e. it should not be the point of origin and/or destination for cruises). This was for fair-competition reasons, as other privately funded ports in the UK would be adversely affected. The terminal came into use in 2007. Almost immediately, Liverpool City Council applied to have the condition set aside. The first submission was rejected by the UK Government in 2009, but a second was made in 2010 following a change of government. This application was received more sympathetically, and the proposal went out to public consultation in July 2011. This has now ended and the results and decision are awaited. Part of the proposal is that some of the public funding should be repaid. The proposed repayment amounts to GBP 5.327 million, representing 42 % of the UK public-sector contribution. This would go entirely to the UK authorities; no repayment of EU funds is proposed. 1. Has the Commission been notified of the state aid implications of this proposed change of condition, as referred to in Commissioner Almunia’s answer to Written Question E‑010272/2010? 2. Does the Commission agree that any repayment of project funding should also include ERDF funds granted, and that the Commission should be privy to negotiations on what proportion of the funding should be repaid? 3. Would the Commission take up with the UK authorities possible breaches of competition law and state aid rules if this condition were to be waived, as referred to in Commissioner Samicki’s answer to Written Question E‑5317/2009?