from Ireland) PES Socialist Group in the European Parliament (includes the British Labour MEPs and the one Irish Labour Party MEP) ALDE Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (includes the British Liberal Democrats and one independent MEP from Ireland) GREENS/EFA Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (includes the British Greens, the Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru) GUE/NGL Confederal Group of the European United Left – Nordic Green Left (includes the two Sinn Fein MEPs) IND/DEM Independence and Democracy Group (includes the UKIP MEPs and one independent MEP from Ireland) UEN Union for Europe of the Nations Group (includes the Irish Fianna Fail Members) NA Non-attached MEPs Statements Opening of the Session 01.12.2004 President Josep BORRELL (PES, ES) opened the plenary session by making reference to three important events, two of which were reflected in the agenda. Firstly, the situation in Ukraine, to which an EP delegation would be leaving the same day. He welcomed the presence of Boris TARASHUK , Chair of the Ukranian Parliament's European Affairs Committee. Secondly, the first anniversary of the signing of the Geneva Accords, the unofficial agreement between a number of prominent Israelis and Palestinians on the way forward in the Middle East. He said this showed that there were possible answers to the key problems, which could lead to the peaceful coexistence of two viable states. While there were many obstacles ahead, the Palestinian elections were an opportunity, though they would require free movement for Palestinians and the participation of Palestinians resident in east Jerusalem. Thirdly, he noted that Parliament would be marking World AIDS Day with a debate on the subject. Three million people had died from AIDS in 2004 and 40 million were infected. He noted with concern the increasing numbers of women infected worldwide. Changes to the agenda 01.12.2004 The various changes to the agenda proposed by the Secretaries General of the political groups were adopted, with one exception. At the request of the Green group, a vote was held on whether to retain the originally scheduled debate on EU-Russia relations in the light of the EU- Russia summit. By 130 votes to 104 with 22 abstentions, Parliament voted to maintain this debate on the agenda. Otherwise the agenda remained as previously announced in The Briefing , except that the report by Philippe MORILLON (ALDE, FR) on fishing in the Baltic Sea was not put to the vote this session. Nigel FARAGE (IND/DEM, UK) asked for one of the planned oral questions to the Commission on football to be replaced with a question on the approval of the Commission, in the light of the revelations he made about Commissioner BARROT during the previous session. He pointed out that he had been telling the truth at that time, and argued that Parliament had not had time to assess this information before its vote on the Commission. He wanted President BARROSO to come to Parliament and explain the circumstances of Mr Barrot's appointment, and for Parliament to debate what he called the failure of its scrutiny process. Maciej Marian GIERTYCH