dass wir nicht 27 verschiedene SPEs sondern tausende verschiedene SPEs haben werden, die alle nicht vergleichbar sein werden. Der von der Kommission eingeschlagene Weg, nämlich vieles Wichtige der Satzung zu überlassen, ist höchst fragwürdig, weil die Satzung zu jedem Zeitpunkt wieder geändert werden könne. Gläubiger, aber auch Minderheitseigentümer könnten sich daher auf die Bestimmungen in der Satzung nicht verlassen. Es wird befürchtet,, dass alle Fortschritte in Richtung Stärkung der Unternehmenskontrolle wieder zu nichte gemacht werden. Daher wird gefordert, dass ab einer bestimmten Größe jedenfalls verpflichtend einen Aufsichtsrat bzw. das Board nicht geschäftsführende Mitglieder haben muss. Auch muss der Aufgabenbereich der Unternehmenskontrolle definiert werden, weil eine effiziente Kontrolle und Beratung der Geschäftsführung wesentlich zu einer positiven nachhaltigen Entwicklung eines Unternehmens beitragen kann. Analog zu den Regelungen zur SE muss auch die Arbeitnehmermitbestimmung gesichert werden. Amendment 20 Proposal for a regulation Article 27 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. Resolutions on the matters indicated in points (a), (b), (c), (i), (l), (m) (n), (o) and (p) of paragraph 1 shall be taken by a qualified majority. 2. Resolutions on the matters indicated in points (a), (b), (c), (e), (h), (i), (l), (m) (n), (o) and (p) of paragraph 1 shall be taken by a qualified majority. Amendment 21 Proposal for a regulation Article 30 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. A person who acts as a director without having been formally appointed shall be considered a director as regards all duties and liabilities to which the latter are subject. deleted Amendment 22 Proposal for a regulation Article 34 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The SPE shall be subject to the rules on employee participation , if any, applicable in the Member State in which it has its registered office, subject to the provisions of this Article. 1. In the case of SPEs which employ fewer than 50 employees: (a) the SPE shall be subject to the rules on employee involvement of the Member State where the SPE's registered office is situated which apply to other similar entities, except that (b) its subsidiaries and branches shall be subject to the rules on employee involvement of the Member State where they are situated which apply to other similar entities. Amendment 23 Proposal for a regulation Article 34 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Where at least a third of the total number of employees of an SPE and its subsidiaries and branches in at least two different Member States so request, or where the total number of employees is 50 or more, Articles 3 to 7 and 11 to 15 of and the Annex to Council Directive 2003/72/EC of 22 July 2003 supplementing the Statute for a European Cooperative Society with regard to the involvement of employees* shall apply, mutatis mutandis. ________________ OJ L 207, 18.8.2003, p. 25. Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 34 – paragraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2a. In the case of a change