poisonings and shall detail the information to be made available in response to medical demand. CHAPTER IX EMERGENCIES Article 72 Emergency measures Where it is clear that an approved substance, safener, synergist or co-formulant or a plant protection product which has been authorised in accordance with this Regulation is likely to constitute a serious risk to human or animal health or the environment, and that such risk cannot be contained satisfactorily by means of measures taken by the Member State(s) concerned, measures to restrict or prohibit the use and/or sale of that substance or product shall be taken immediately in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83 (3), either at the own initiative of the Commission or at the request of a Member State. Before taking such measures the Commission shall examine the evidence and may request an opinion from the Authority. The Commission may set a time limit within which such an opinion shall be provided. Article 73 Emergency measures in cases of extreme urgency By way of derogation from Article 72 , the Commission may provisionally adopt the measures referred to in Article 72 after consulting the Member State or Member States concerned and informing the other Member States. As soon as possible, and at the latest after 10 working days, those measures shall be confirmed, amended, revoked or extended in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83 (3). Article 74 Other emergency measures 1. Where a Member State officially informs the Commission of the need to take emergency measures, and no action has been taken in accordance with Articles 72 or 73 , the Member State may adopt interim protective measures. In this event, it shall immediately inform the other Member States and the Commission. 2. Within 30 working days, the Commission shall put the matter before the Committee referred to in Article 83 (1) in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83 (3) with a view to the extension, amendment or abrogation of the national interim protective measure. 3. The Member State may maintain its national interim protective measures until Community measures have been adopted. CHAPTER X ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Article 75 Penalties The Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this Regulation and shall take the measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented. The penalties provided for must be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. The Member States shall notify those rules and any subsequent amendment to the Commission without delay. Article 76 Civil and criminal liability The granting of authorisation and any other measures in conformity with this Regulation shall be without prejudice to general civil and criminal liability in the Member States of the producer and, where applicable, of the person responsible for placing the plant protection product on the market or using it. Article 77 Fund for safe disposal of obsolete pesticides Producers and authorisation holders shall contribute to a fund covering the costs associated with the disposal and destruction of stocks of obsolete pesticides in Member States and