required the calculation of the technical reserves of a life insurance company to be based on actuarial principles, common to all member states, and as recommended by the 'Groupe Consultatif des Associations d’Actuaires dans les Pays des Communautés Européennes'. These principles included limiting the rates of interest that could be used in the valuation, but did not prescribe the valuation method to be used, the choice of which was left open to member states to decide see Art.18 3LD, transposed by Regulations 58-75 of Insurance Companies Regulations 1994 . . The Directive introduced a requirement for “admissibility limits” in relation to assets but prevented member states from requiring companies to invest in particular assets. It amended the asset matching and localisation rules introduced by the First Life Directive so that these applied across all member states see Art.18 and Annex I 3LD, transposed by Reg. 27-33 of Insurance Companies Regulations 1994 . . It also permitted the required solvency margin to be covered ... by subordinated loan capital for the first time see Art.25, para.1 3LD. . This was not subject to the consent of the prudential competent authority under the Directive but such consent was nonetheless made a requirement in the UK , again implemented by means of the issuance by the prudential competent authority of an order under section 68 of the Insurance Companies Act 1982." The UK authorities further explained in WE32 that 3LD " prohibited the prior approval by the prudential competent authority of products or premium rates see Art.29 and 39 3LD. , instead relying on the required solvency margin, the rules concerning the technical reserves and the valuation of assets.... to afford adequate protection to policyholders... Whilst the Third Life Directive permitted Member states to impose explicit reserving requirements for terminal bonus, it did not require this. see Art.18 3LD. " In WE43 policyholder Mr. VINALL claimed that " the regulator failed in his duty and then compounded the problem by giving policyholders misleading information." He recalls in large detail his frustrating experience in contacting the FSA in 2001, following the increasing number of reports on Equitable Life, in order to obtain some reliable information and to establish the truth about the Company's financial position. After allegedly having been told by a member of the FSA Equitable supervisory team that in relation to the solvency and reserve levels of Equitable " they could see no cause for concern ", Mr. VINALL reported that the FSA staff would not take his questions seriously and had even hung up on him. Written complaints were answered concluding that he had no grounds to claim the FSA had acted unprofessionally, a finding repeated by the FSA Complaints Commissioner. In his view, the FSA's refusal to provide accurate information to the policyholder led him to stay with the company longer than he should have, with the consequence of having to pay a 20% penalty when leaving the company. In an e-mail of 7 June 2006 (annex to WE43) the Office of the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman confirms to Mr. VINALL they were