Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (6 March 2006) Under the Copenhagen political criteria, Turkey must ensure respect for minority rights, cultural rights and protection of minorities. As regards the situation in the east and south-east of the country, where most people are of Kurdish origin, the Commission noted in its last regular report published on 9 November 2006 that progress had been slow and uneven. The report noted however that, in August 2005, Prime Minister Erdogan visited Diyarbakir and emphasised the need to resolve through democratic means what he described as ‘the Kurdish issue’. The revised accession partnership agreed by the Council contains several short-term priorities which should be achieved within one to two years. One of these priorities refers explicitly to the development of a comprehensive approach to reducing regional disparities, and in particular to improving the situation in south-east Turkey, with a view to enhancing economic, social and cultural opportunities for all Turkish citizens, including those of Kurdish origin. The Commission will monitor the implementation of this priority and will continue to raise this question with the Turkish authorities as part of its regular monitoring of the political criteria. As regards the other issues raised by the Honourable Member, the Commission draws the attention to the sections in the progress report concerning the reform of public administration and decentralisation. The Commission noted some progress in terms of reforms at provincial and local level. Of particular significance in this context is the framework law on public administration adopted in 2004 which is currently being reviewed by Parliament after it was vetoed by the President in July 2004 on the grounds that it conflicted with constitutional provisions related to the unitary character of the State. In particular, it provided for a new distribution of duties and powers between local and central government, with a view to rationalizing administrative bodies and increasing responsiveness and transparency vis-à-vis citizens. The Commission will also monitor progress on the basis of the relevant priority under the revised accession partnership.