it was clear in November 2004 that she finally was " entitled to avail to the FOS services " (Ms KNOWD, H2). In WE-CONF 28, Ms KNOWD quotes from a letter of November 2004 by " Mr Roberts, Ombudsman " in which the FOS apparently confirmed that it had jurisdiction over her complaint: " It seems to me that ... in deciding whether a complaint falls within the territorial jurisdiction of the [FOS] the primary consideration should be whether the act or omission that gave rise to the complaint was in fact carried out in the UK by a firm operating from a permanent place of business in the United Kingdom. Equitable Life does have such a permanent place of business and operates from it. " Ms KNOWD did not specify whether the FOS has taken a decision on her complaint. The Irish financial authorities informed the committee that they tried to clarify whether Irish and German policyholders had access to the FOS. Ms O'DEA indicated that the Irish regulators contacted the UK Financial Ombudsman Service with a view to exploring whether Irish policyholders would have recourse to it. " Unfortunately, we have not been able to get clarification on whether Irish policyholders of Equitable Life fall specifically under the jurisdiction of the UK Financial Services Ombudsman " (Ms O'DEA, H4). The FOS states on its website that it only " cover[s] firms that provide financial products and services in or from the UK ". http://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/ This was confirmed by Mr TERTÁK (H1) who stated that the FOS does not consider claims from policyholders who contracted with Equitable's EU branches, since the product was not provided in or from the UK. The UK regulators in H4 did not comment on the FOS territorial jurisdiction but only made reference, on a number of occasions, to the memorandum, which the FOS submitted to the committee, stating that they had " nothing to add " to it. In this memorandum (WE 27 Page 6. ), the FOS states the following with regard to its territorial jurisdiction: " FOS may consider complaints about the activities of a firm carried on from within the UK . However, it may also consider complaints pursuant to the compulsory jurisdiction about activities carried on from an establishment elsewhere in the EU if (a) the activity is directed at the UK , and (b) governing contracts are made under the law of England and Wales , Scotland or Northern Ireland . " The paper goes on to say that " insofar as the selling of Equitable Life’s Irish policies and the provision of information relating to those polices before and after their purchase was carried on from the Irish Republic, complaints about such matters fall outside the jurisdiction of FOS. While it might be possible for Irish Republic investors to make certain complaints against Equitable Life that do fall within the jurisdiction of FOS, it is unlikely that normal complaints would do so. The position as regards Equitable Life’s German policies is similar. The involvement of a foreign branch does not