that Parliament's new powers under Article 290 TFEU on delegated acts are respected. In fact, your Rapporteur identifies the measures under the GSP Regulation that are to be considered delegated acts: Article 10(2), Article 11 (7) and (8), Article 16(3), Article 19 (3), (4) and (5), and Article 25, giving Parliament a veto right and thus much stronger scrutiny powers than under the procedure currently applied. In order to establish rules for the exercise, control and eventual revocation of delegated acts, Articles 27a, 27b, 27c, 27d and 27e should be inserted.. In view of the urgency of adopting this regulation, to ensure the legal certainty for the beneficiaries, and in order to avoid parallel negotiations, it has however been agreed that the concerns of the European Parliament will be addressed within the negotiations on the horizontal legislative proposals to align all procedures for the adoption of acts within the Common Commercial Policy with the Lisbon Treaty, the "omnibuses". The European Commission has in the meantime committed itself to meet many of the legitimate requests of increased information sharing with the European Parliament. New regulation No changes are therefore proposed at this point in time, although your Rapporteur believes that a general redrafting of the GSP and GSP+ schemes is necessary. Your Rapporteur agrees that the general review of the Regulation should be dealt with in the proposal for a new Regulation that the Parliament wants to be presented without delay. Nevertheless, your Rapporteur would like to stress that the new proposal for a regulation should have the following basic objectives: (1) to produce an effective system more responsive to the interests of beneficiary countries and economic operators; (2) to develop rules that will provide for a better regulated reform process in which the involvement of the beneficiaries is guaranteed; (3) to ensure that the regulation gives due weight to the task of democratic control which Parliament is required to perform. As underlined by the European Parliament in 2008 in the report by Helmuth Markov, greater transparency and legal certainty must be a hallmark of the EU. The new proposal should aim at making the GSP a clearer and more transparent system. Rules of origin Rules of origin and the administrative procedures that accompany them are one of the main reasons for the under-utilisation of the trade preferences granted by the GSP, particularly by the least developed countries. Rules of origin can prevent a preference that exists on paper having a positive impact and the danger is that they form a barrier to trade setting commercially unattainable targets, so that the preference is under- or un-utilised. New, revised, rules of origin should enter into force at least in parallel to the new GSP scheme. The reform should allow regional cumulation and also include the possibility of horizontal cumulation between regions or global cumulation for the countries benefiting from special arrangements under the GSP. Along the same lines, consideration should be given to introducing more favourable rules on the requirements for granting recognition of origin to a product. It is proposed that the European