Total rejection 1. A committee or at least forty Members may, for important reasons, table a proposal to reject the draft budget as a whole. Such a proposal shall be admissible only if it is accompanied by a written justification and tabled within the time limit set by the President. The reasons for rejection may not be contradictory. 2. The committee responsible shall deliver its opinion on such a proposal before it is put to the vote in Parliament. Parliament shall act by a majority of its component Members and two thirds of the votes cast. If the proposal is adopted, the draft budget as a whole shall be referred back to the Council. Article 7 Provisional twelfths system 1. Subject to the conditions set out below, any Member may submit a proposal for a decision different from that taken by the Council authorising expenditure in excess of the provisional one twelfth for expenditure other than that necessarily resulting from the Treaty or from acts adopted in accordance therewith. 2. Proposals for decisions shall be admissible only if they are presented in writing, bear the signature of at least forty Members or are tabled by a political group or committee and state the grounds on which they are based. 3. The committee responsible shall deliver its opinion on the texts submitted before they are discussed in Parliament. 4. Parliament shall act by a majority of its component Members and three fifths of the votes cast. Article 8 Procedure to be applied when drawing up Parliament's estimates 1. As regards problems relating to Parliament's budget, the Bureau and the committee responsible for the budget shall take decisions in successive stages on: (a) the establishment plan; (b) the preliminary draft and the draft estimates. 2. The decisions concerning the establishment plan will be taken according to the following procedure: (a) the Bureau shall draw up the establishment plan for each financial year; (b) a conciliation procedure between the Bureau and the committee responsible for the budget shall be opened in cases where the opinion of the latter diverges from the initial decisions taken by the Bureau; (c) at the end of the procedure, the Bureau shall take the final decision on the estimates for the establishment plan, in accordance with Rule 197(3), without prejudice to decisions taken pursuant to Article 272 of the EC Treaty. 3. As regards the estimates proper, the procedure for drawing up the estimates will begin as soon as the Bureau has taken a final decision on the establishment plan. The stages of this procedure will be those laid down in Rule 73, viz.: (a) the Bureau shall draw up the preliminary draft estimates of revenue and expenditure (paragraph 1); (b) the committee responsible for the budget shall draw up the draft estimates of revenue and expenditure (paragraph 2); (c) a conciliation procedure shall be opened in cases where the positions of the committee responsible for the budget and the Bureau are widely divergent. ANNEX V Procedure for the consideration and adoption of decisions on the granting of discharge Article