5.5.2009 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Angelika Beer on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group on Iran, notably the case of Roxana Saberi European Parliament resolution on Iran, notably the case of Roxana Saberi The European Parliament , - having regard to the 3rd inter-parliamentary meeting between the European Parliament and the Majlis (Parliament) of the Islamic Republic of Iran , held in Brussels on 4-5 November 2008, and the report thereon, - having regard to the Resolution of the UN General Assembly of 18 December 2008 on the Situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran - having regard to the Report of the UN Secretary-General of 1 October 2008 on the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran - having regard to the EU Presidency Statement of 10 April 2009 on developments in the case of Roxana Saberi and the Declaration by the Presidency on behalf of the EU of 22 April 2009 concerning the sentence imposed on Miss Roxana Saberi, - having regard to its previous resolutions on Iran, having regard to Rule 115 of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas on 18 April 2009 the Iranian-American journalist Roxana Saberi was sentenced to eight years in prison in an unfair trial behind closed doors and with charges changing arbitrarily from the crime of buying wine to doing press work without licence up to espionage and spying for the United States government B. whereas Roxana Saberi went on a hunger and thirst strike and has been admitted to the Evin prison hospital on 1 May reportedly in very frail condition C. whereas at least seven journalists and two bloggers are currently imprisoned in Iran and whereas Iran is one of the lowest-ranking countries when it comes to freedom of the press D. whereas with the journalist Maryam Malek another member of the Campaign for Equality "One Million Signatures" was arrested on 25 April, the bail of her release being set at 200 million rials (over 10 000 Euros) which her family is incapable of paying E. whereas on 1 May 2009 the Iranian authorities executed Delara Darabi in Rasht Central Prison F. whereas Delara Darabi is the second person to be executed this year after being convicted of a crime she was alleged to have committed while still under 18 G. whereas Ms. Darabi was executed despite having been given a two-month stay of execution by the Head of the Judiciary on 19 April and in violation of the legal requirement that her lawyer should receive a 48 hours' notice H. whereas the courts reportedly refused to consider evidence which might have proven that she could not have committed the murder and only confessed in order to save her boyfriend from the gallows I. whereas on 1 May, International Labour Day, security and police forces violently repressed peaceful demonstrations in various locations in Iran