to them by Parliament or, during an adjournment of the session, by the President on behalf of the Conference of Presidents. The duties of temporary committees and committees of inquiry shall be defined when they are set up; they shall not be entitled to deliver opinions to other committees. (See interpretation under Rule 175.) 2. Should a standing committee declare itself not competent to consider a question, or should a conflict arise over the competence of two or more standing committees, the question of competence shall be referred to the Conference of Presidents within four working weeks of the announcement in Parliament of referral to committee. The Conference of Committee Chairmen shall be notified and may make a recommendation to the Conference of Presidents. The Conference of Presidents shall take a decision within six working weeks of the referral of the question of competence. Otherwise the question shall be included for a decision on the agenda for the subsequent part-session. 3. Should two or more standing committees be competent to deal with a question, one committee shall be named as the committee responsible and the others as committees asked for opinions. A question shall not, however, be referred simultaneously to more than three committees, unless it is decided for sound reasons to depart from this rule under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1. 4. Any two or more committees or subcommittees may jointly consider matters coming within their competence, but they may not take a decision. 5. Any committee may, with the agreement of the Bureau of Parliament, instruct one or more of its members to undertake a study or fact-finding mission. Rule 180 Committee responsible for the verification of credentials Among the committees set up in accordance with the provisions of these Rules, one committee shall be responsible for the verification of credentials and the preparation of decisions on any objections concerning the validity of elections. Rule 181 Subcommittees 1. Subject to prior authorisation by the Conference of Presidents, a standing or temporary committee may, in the interests of its work, appoint one or more subcommittees, of which it shall at the same time determine the composition, pursuant to Rule 177, and area of responsibility. Subcommittees shall report to the committee that set them up. 2. The procedure for subcommittees shall be the same as for committees. 3. Substitutes shall be allowed to sit on subcommittees under the same conditions as on committees. 4. The application of these provisions must safeguard the interdependence between a subcommittee and the committee within which it is set up. For this purpose all the full members of a subcommittee shall be chosen from among the members of the parent committee. Rule 182 Committee bureaux 1. At the first committee meeting after the election of committee members pursuant to Rule 177, the committee shall elect a bureau consisting of a chairman and one, two or three vice-chairmen who shall be elected in separate ballots. Notwithstanding the provisions of the first subparagraph, for the period from January 2007 to July 2009 each committee bureau shall include