However, in order to ensure that payments continue to be primarily used for the designated Natura 2000 sites, it is appropriate to limit their proportion compared to Natura 2000 areas designated. In so doing, regional and local authorities should strike a balance between environmental protection and local development needs. Justification In order to avoid disharmony between environmental provisions and local development, a compromise must be struck so that concerns for both economic investment and environmental protection are addressed. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 19 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (19) Each Member State is required to establish a national rural network. In order to ensure that the various national rural networks are set-up in a coherent and uniform manner, the Commission should, by means of implementing acts, fix details concerning the establishment and the operation of those networks. (19) Each Member State is required to establish a national rural network , which should include national, regional and local representatives . In order to ensure that the various national rural networks are set-up in a coherent and uniform manner, the Commission should, by means of implementing acts, fix details concerning the establishment and the operation of those networks. Justification It is important that not only the relationship between each Member State and national rural network be established but that each national rural network be comprised of national, regional and local representatives to ensure close links with citizens’ needs. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation - amending act Article 1 – point 1 – point a Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 Article 5 - paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The Commission and the Member States shall ensure that the assistance from the EAFRD and the Member States is consistent with the activities, policies and priorities of the Union. The assistance of the EAFRD shall be consistent with the objectives of Economic and Social Cohesion and those of the Union support instrument for fisheries in particular. In order to ensure that EAFRD assistance is also consistent with other support instruments of the Union, the Commission may, by means of delegated acts, lay down the specific Union measures with which such consistency is to be ensured. 2. The Commission and the Member States shall ensure that the assistance from the EAFRD and the Member States is consistent with the activities, policies and priorities of the Union. The assistance of the EAFRD shall be consistent with the objectives of Economic , Social and Territorial Cohesion and those of the Union support instrument for fisheries in particular. In order to ensure that EAFRD assistance is also consistent with other support instruments of the Union, the Commission may, by means of delegated acts, lay down the specific Union measures with which such consistency is to be ensured. PROCEDURE Title Amendment of Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) References COM(2010)0537 – C7-0295/2010 – 2010/0266(COD) Committee responsible AGRI Opinion by Date announced in plenary REGI 19.10.2010 Rapporteur Date appointed