29 seeks to emphasise the importance of taking account of existing interventions regarded as promising and investing in improving them while developing new products, in order to make up the time lag between the development of a new product and its general use to treat a disease. Amendments 18, 22 and 31: These amendments, the first two of which are purely technical, seek to remedy an underlying weakness of the proposal by inserting the necessary provisions concerning the structure responsible for managing the EDCTP programme. This structure and the financial control mechanism are particularly important in view of the fact that the Community’s financial contribution accounts for some 17.3% of the appropriations allocated under the Sixth Framework Programme on Research and Development, 2002-2006, to the priority thematic area ‘combating major diseases’. These amendments introduce a new annex largely based on the management structure agreed by the EDCTP steering committee at its meeting on 24 October 2002. It is proposed, therefore, that the management structure for the EDCTP programme comprise the following main components: 1. A Partnership Council whose task will be to define, develop and plan the strategic implementation of the programme, 2. A European economic interest grouping (EEIG), as established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2137/85, which will be the common structure. The EEIG EDCTP will be the executive structure responsible for the reception, allocation and monitoring of the Community’s financial contributions, and will manage the programme through its secretariat. It will consist of two main components: – the EEIG Assembly, which will be the final authority within the EEIG, – the EEIG Secretariat, which will provide administrative support for the work of the Partnership Council and the EEIG Assembly. 21 January 2003 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUDGETS for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision on Community participation in a research and development programme aimed at developing new clinical interventions to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis through a long-term partnership between Europe and the developing countries, undertaken by a number of Member States and Norway ( COM(2002) 474 – C5‑0392/2002 – 2002/0211(COD)) Draftsman: Ian Stewart Hudghton PROCEDURE The Committee on Budgets appointed Ian Stewart Hudghton draftsman at its meeting of 8 October 2002. It considered the draft opinion at its meeting of 21 January 2003. At the latter meeting it adopted the following amendments unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Reimer Böge, acting chairman; Franz Turchi, vice-chairman; Ian Stewart Hudghton, draftsman for opinion; Den Dover, Joan Colom i Naval, Salvador Garriga Polledo, Catherine Guy-Quint, Juan Andrés Naranjo Escobar, Joaquim Piscarreta, Ralf Walter, Gianfranco Dell’Alba (for Wolfgang Ilgenfritz) and Anne-Karin Glase (for Ioannis Averoff). SHORT JUSTIFICATION Background Poverty-related diseases are a major problem in developing countries, particularly in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Commission has presented an action programme aimed at combating the global problem of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis and identifying various strategies to be implemented. Most aid measures are directed at development or on primary care, direct supply and distribution of medicines and massive vaccination campaigns.