Question for written answer P-3656/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Giancarlo Scottà (EFD) (25 May 2010) Subject: Iraqi election aftermath Following the elections on 7 March Iraq has been left in political limbo. With the two largest party blocs both receiving around 25 % of the national vote, there are only two seats' difference in their total number of seats in the legislature. With both sides thus far failing to negotiate a majority coalition with other smaller coalitions, the result is a political deadlock. Further complicating matters is the Iraqi election law, which gives the coalition with the largest number of legislators the first chance at forming a government. The State of Law coalition, led by Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, which finished just two members short of the Ayad Allawi led al-Iraqiyya coalition, contends that the coalition which has the greatest chance of forming a government should have the right to first attempt to do so. While State of Law believes that they have a better chance of forming a government, they nevertheless challenged the results of the election in Baghdad. As a result, a complete recount for the Baghdad district began on 3 May, one that could take weeks. 2.5 million votes will be recounted with a view to possibly reallocating the 68 seats allocated to Baghdad, the largest electoral district. While the results are not expected to change dramatically, in such a close election any change could lead to further political discord and in a country as fragile as Iraq violence may ensue. Yet this recount is potentially just the first, as there are myriad challenges still under way with regard to the election results, which have yet to be made official. As such, this political vacuum looks likely to continue for months, potentially even past the August withdrawal of American combat forces from Iraq. 1. Is the Commission monitoring these recounts and the election aftermath to ensure a fair result? What is the Commission's view on the political wrangling taking place, including the series of court battles? 2. What is the Commission doing to help ensure a speedy end to this political limbo in order to return Iraq to a functioning government and avert potential violence? 3. Will the Commission be actively supporting the new Iraqi Government? Will it be taking measures to strengthen the EU‑Iraq relationship and if so, in what way?