Reply (2 December 2005) The Council notes the concerns expressed by the Honourable Member, as well as the Council of Europe Resolution ResChS(2005)11 adopted by the Committee of Ministers on 8 June 2005, noting also the progress made in this respect. The need to address the situation of Roma communities, the largest ethnic minority within the EU since enlargement, has been widely acknowledged and various initiatives have already been undertaken at a national, EU or international level. Indeed the Council recently welcomed the commitment given by a number of Heads of State or Governments in February 2005 to eliminate all forms of discrimination against the Roma in the context of the ‘Decade of Roma Inclusion 2005-2015’ initiative. The European Union is firmly committed to combating all forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and anti-Semitism and would be concerned about any breach of EU anti-discrimination law in relation to discriminatory treatment of Roma communities. After the adoption of the Amsterdam Treaty, which provided the European Community with new powers to tackle discrimination, a package of measures has been put in place to combat discrimination. This includes legislative measures, in particular Directive 2000/43/EC ‘implementing the principle of equal treatment between persons irrespective of racial or ethnic origin’, a Community action programme, where one of the priority areas in 2004 was the integration of the Roma into the employment market, and various other initiatives. The ‘Race Directive’ introduces legal standards throughout the Union aimed at ending differential treatment based on the arbitrary criteria of race or ethnicity. Amongst other things, this directive explicitly bans racial discrimination in the field of housing. It is, however, the responsibility of the European Commission to monitor the implementation and compliance of EU law in the Member States. Indeed the Commission is due to report in 2006, to the European Parliament and the Council on the application of the Race Directive, including if necessary, proposals to revise and update this directive. The European Union's Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia (EUMC), based in Vienna, provides additional support in the fight against discrimination.