protection through access to out-of-court redress schemes, irrespective of whether they purchase financial products from domestic or foreign providers. Discrepancies in this respect hinder the opening up of cross-border retail, which is arguably the key to unlocking the full potential of the internal market. 53. The committee considers it wholly unsatisfactory that, while the Union has opened up its markets in financial services using black letter law, be it through Treaty principles or secondary legislation, issues related to consumer redress have been addressed with mere soft law instruments, such as Recommendations and Memoranda of Understanding. See Commission Recommendation 98/257/EC of 30 March 1998 on the principles applicable to the bodies responsible for out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes (OJ L 115, 17.4.1998, p. 31); Commission Recommendation 2001/310/EC of 4 April 2001 on the principles for out-of-court bodies involved in the consensual resolution of consumer disputes (OJ L 109, 19.4.2001, p. 56); and the Memorandum of Understanding on a Cross-border Out-of-Court Complaints Network for Financial Services in the EEA. PART V - ROLE OF THE COMMISSION on systematic weaknesses in the Commission’s monitoring of implementation of EU law in the light of the crisis of the Equitable Life Assurance Society INDEX PART V Introduction I. The implementation of EU legislation - general background 1. Terminology 2. Directives and Member States’ obligations: ECJ jurisprudence 3. The European Commission's obligation under the Treaty II. The European Commission's monitoring of implementation in practice 1. Transposition 2. Application 3. Infringement procedures III. The need to ensure a comprehensive approach to implementation Conclusions I. Introduction Much has been said already in Part II of this Report (see there Point II.2.1) on the Commission's role in monitoring the implementation of the 3LD and other related directives. This part will be devoted to analysing whether there have been systematic weaknesses in the Commission's monitoring of implementation in general and with regard to the ELAS case in particular. In order respond to its mandate, it is necessary to begin by defining the committee's understanding of proper implementation of Community legislation and clarifying the relevant terminology. The concept and terminology thus established will not only serve as basis for the subsequent analysis undertaken in this part but applies throughout the entire report. This is of particular relevance to Part II, where the implementation of the insurance directives and its monitoring by the EC are examined, and also to Parts III and IV of the report. It is also necessary to recall the duties and responsibilities of the various actors according to EU law. This part goes on to identify, in general terms, the current practice followed and instruments used by the Commission in monitoring both transposition of EU legislation and its application on the ground. In doing so, reference is made to some of the major obstacles and difficulties encountered in this respect, mainly by drawing from oral evidence presented to the committee by Commission representatives and academic experts. Particular emphasis is laid on infringement procedure as the main tool under Community law to remedy incorrect implementation of EU legislation by the Member