Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (24 March 2011) 1. The information provided by the Commission in response to Written Question E‑10467/10 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB can be found in the report of 7 April 2010 on the joint review of the implementation of the Agreement between the EU and the USA on the processing and transfer of PNR data by air carriers to the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS). The approach of listing issues of concern to the EU in this report has been chosen in order to allow DHS to take the necessary steps to address this situation. 2. As shown by the 2010 report, and as provided for in the 2007 Agreement, the joint review is an essential instrument for an in-depth monitoring of the implementation of the Agreement, including the implementation of the data protection provisions contained therein, to make recommendations and agree on a follow-up if necessary. 3. In accordance with the Agreement, any data received which is outside the list of data specified in the Agreement, are filtered out and deleted by DHS. The 2010 joint review report states that it has been agreed to carry out a follow-up review in the course of 2011 to further monitor this issue. However, this follow-up review might not take place in 2011 since negotiations are currently ongoing on a new PNR agreement with the US. Nevertheless, the negotiations are used by the Commission to follow up on this and other relevant questions regarding the implementation of the existing Agreement. 4. The logs recording all ad hoc requests are reviewed at the discretion of the Chief Privacy Officer of DHS. The joint reviews also present an opportunity for the review of such logs. 5. Such logs are checked by the Chief Privacy Officer of DHS, who is herself answerable to the US Congress. The Commission is not competent to intervene at operational level of the PNR system. However, the question of ad hoc requests forms part of the general matter of push/pull. In the Commission's assessment only the use of push will prevent this issue from recurring.