{ "context": [ [ "Woodbridge Center", [ "Woodbridge Center (also called Woodbridge Mall or Woodbridge Center Mall) is a major two-level, upscale shopping mall located in Woodbridge Township, New Jersey at the intersection of U.S. Route 1 and U.S. Route 9.", " The land that Woodbridge Center now stands on used to be the location of the old clay pits in Woodbridge.", " The mall, owned and managed by GGP Inc., features Boscov's, J. C. Penney, Lord & Taylor, Macy's and Sears and over 200 retail establishments.", " The mall features a fountain, carousel, train ride, and children's play area.", " Although most malls have a food court, Woodbridge Center's eating establishments are spread throughout the mall with their own individual seating areas and restrooms.", " Before the coming of the food court, all malls had their eating establishments spread throughout the mall." ] ], [ "Bal Harbour Shops", [ "Bal Harbour Shops is an upscale, open-air shopping mall in Bal Harbour, a wealthy suburb of Miami Beach, Florida, known internationally for its luxury retail.", " Bal Harbour Shops is owned by the Whitman family and is one of the few remaining family-owned malls in the nation." ] ], [ "West Town Mall", [ "West Town Mall is an upscale shopping mall located in Knoxville, Tennessee, United States.", " Opened in August 1972, this one-level mall is located in the western portion of Knoxville in the West Hills community.", " West Town Mall is located along Interstates 40/75 and Kingston Pike.", " The mall has over 1300000 sqft of Gross leasable area, making it the largest of any enclosed shopping mall in Tennessee." ] ], [ "Parkway Place", [ "Parkway Place is an upscale shopping mall in Huntsville, Alabama that opened on October 16, 2002.", " Parkway Place is located at the site of the older Parkway City Mall, which was torn down to allow for the construction of the newer facility.", " The mall is located at the intersection of Memorial Parkway (U.S. 231) and Drake Avenue.", " With a total of 643135 sqft and 70 in-line stores, Parkway Place is anchored by Dillard's and Belk.", " The mall is now the only indoor shopping mall in Huntsville after Madison Square Mall closed in early 2017." ] ], [ "Westfield Garden State Plaza", [ "Westfield Garden State Plaza is a two-story, upscale shopping mall located in Paramus, New Jersey, owned and managed by the Westfield Corporation, and located at the intersection of Route 4 and Route 17 near the Garden State Parkway, about 15 miles west of Manhattan.", " With 2,118,718 sqft of leasable space, and housing over 300 stores, it is the largest mall in New Jersey, the third-largest mall in the New York metropolitan area, and one of the highest-revenue producing malls in the United States.", " Its department store anchors are J.C. Penney, Lord & Taylor, Macy's, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom.", " It was the first large scale shopping mall in New Jersey." ] ], [ "Haywood Mall", [ "Haywood Mall is a upscale shopping mall in Greenville,