Answer given by Mr Almunia on behalf of the Commission (20 December 2007) Greece is overall more energy import-dependent than the euro-area and the EU averages Eurostat, Europe in figures , Eurostat yearbook 2006-07, p. 22. . According to Eurostat http://epp.eurostat.ec.europa.eu/portal/page?_pageid=0,1136239,0_45571447&_dad=portal&_schema=PORTAL. , the share of crude oil and petroleum products consumed as a percentage of total energy products shows a downward trend in the euro area and in the EU (see Annex A which is sent directly to the Honourable Member and to the Secretariat of Parliament), while it increases in Greece. In Greece, as well as in the EU and the euro area, the short-term dynamics of overall inflation continue to be driven mostly by developments in the energy component. In Greece, since 2001, the inflation rate has hovered around 3-3.5 %. For 2007, annual harmonised indices of consumer prices (HICP) is projected at 2.75 % in 2007, while for 2008 it is expected to rebound marginally at 3.1 %. However, while increases in oil prices have had an impact on inflation, they have not affected the inflation differential with the euro area, which has remained broadly unchanged at about 1.25 percentage point per year (see Annex A). Consequently, it is the persistence of the inflation differential with the euro area that has played a major role in the erosion of the Greek competitiveness, which is reflected in an increase in the current account deficit to above 11 % in 2006 compared to around 3 % in the late 90s and remains one of the highest in the euro area. Although the inflation differential with the euro area cannot be attributed to a single factor, its persistence can largely be associated to structural factors. The existing rigidities in both labour and product markets is a major determinant of price stickiness in Greece. Given a productivity growth of about 1.25 %, the expected level of inflation will keep pushing unit labour cost clearly above those of the euro area, eroding further the Greek economy's competitiveness and hampering real convergence.