independence of the judiciary and protection of the environment, but called on the EU to fully support the country's efforts to restore civil society. He said he had received important reassurances from the Romanian authorities in relation to Hungarian minorities. Against this background, he concluded "it is very important to give the right message to both the Romanian authorities and the population. It is my belief that Romania will, and deserves to, join the European Union." Mairead McGUINNESS (EPP-ED, IE) welcomed the progress made by Romania in a short period of time. Responding to Baroness Nicholson's positive report on Romanian progress on children's rights, she said that not enough was being done to protect children and young adults in institutional care. "Despite the improvements, the truth is that there is still a lot more to be done. It is simply not acceptable that these children and young adults are held in inappropriate care, and as Romania is on the verge of accession to the EU." She called for careful monitoring and further improvements. Nicolas SCHMIT , replying to the debate for the Council, noted that there was broad support for accession and that the accession process had been a powerful incentive for reform. He said that the EU had now to encourage and oblige these governments to move forward. "We need to send a clear political signal today, showing Romania and Bulgaria that we trust them but that the path for them to meet their commitments is clearly marked". On the delicate issue of Parliament's role, he said "Parliament is an ally and the Council would like keep this ally for future enlargement. These are not just empty words. The views of Parliament will be fully taken into account". He also expressed the Presidency's regret at the failure to reach an agreement on the joint declaration on the financial implications of accession. Commissioner REHN assured MEPs that Parliament's views would be fully considered before any recommendation for postponement were to be made. He spoke about the rights of minorities in Romania, citing positive developments at both government and citizen levels, and he said the Commission would continue to closely monitor the situation and keep Parliament informed. Press enquiries: Marjory van den Broeke (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74337 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 44304 e-mail : foreign-press@europarl.eu.int Budget EP's budgetary powers upheld for Romania and Bulgaria Bárbara DÜHRKOP DÜHRKOP (PES, ES) & Reimer BÖGE (EPP-ED, DE) Report on the financial implications of the accession of Romania and Bulgaria Doc.: A6-0090/2005 Procedure : Own-initiative Vote : 13.04.2005 In a trialogue successfully concluded minutes before the day's voting session, Parliament and Council managed to agree on a joint declaration on the financial implications of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania. Parliament welcomes this agreement, which means that its budgetary powers and prerogatives will be respected. Specifically, the declaration ensures that, based on the assumption that the two countries join in 2007, the classification entered in the annex of the accession treaties will be deemed as non-compulsory expenditure after 2009. The financing of the accession of Bulgaria and Romania