the meaning of that Act. These contracts are governed by the SIB/LAUTRO disclosure rules. Pre-contractual disclosure requirements for long-term insurance as set out by Schedule 2E basically reiterate those included in Annex II with two relevant differences. Firstly, the Schedule requires the disclosure of “any compensation or guarantee arrangements which will be available if the insurer is unable to meet its liabilities under the contract”. This is an additional requirement not listed by Annex II of the Directive. The Prudential Guidance Note stipulates that, as a minimum, the assurance undertaking should provide on request detailed information as to the compensation arrangements that will apply to the contract. However, the Guidance notes that the best practice is to provide a brief description of the compensation arrangements which will apply and that further information is available on request. Secondly, in respect of the language to be used for disclosure, the Directive requires the disclosure to be in a language of the Member State of the commitment (i.e. where the policyholder is habitually resident) or, if the law of that Member State so permits and the policyholder so requests, it may be provided in the language of another Member State. However, Schedule 2E states that the information shall be furnished in English except when the other party to the contract requests that the information be disclosed in an official language of a Member State other than the UK . This means, for example, that if the policyholder is habitually resident in a Member State other than the UK whose official language is not English, the UK company can comply with the disclosure requirements by furnishing that policyholder with information in English unless the policyholder requests that the information be furnished in his own language. Thus, the UK language rules do not oblige the insurer to provide the information in a language other than English whereas the Directive requires the disclosure to be in the language of the Member State of the commitment (i.e. where the policyholder is habitually resident). In addition, the Prudential Guidance Note further specifies the disclosure requirements included in the schedule. For instance, with respect to the requirement to disclose the method of calculation and distribution of bonuses, the Guidance Note specifies that the insurer should state: § how it distributes profits which are allocated for the payment of bonuses (for example, by an increase in benefits or a decrease in premiums) § whether increased benefits resulting from bonuses are only payable (subject to any adjustments) even if the contract is terminated early by either party to the contract § where the bonus acts to increase benefits, whether increases are likely to be made each year or only when the policy monies become payable to the policyholder § the basis upon which bonuses are allotted to policyholders (for example, sum assured, premiums paid, value of existing bonuses) § whether policies share equitably in the distribution of all the profits of the long-term fund or only certain elements of these profits because, for example, certain assets are to be hypothecated to the type