its preferential jurisdiction. Amendment 33 Article 8, paragraph 4 (Convention) 4. If the State whose flag is being flown by the vessel surrenders its preferential jurisdiction, it shall send the other Member State the information and documents in its possession. Should it decide to exercise its jurisdiction, the other State shall transfer to the preferential State the documents and evidence it has assembled, the corpus delicti and the persons detained. 4. If the State whose flag is being flown by the vessel surrenders its preferential jurisdiction, it shall send the intervening Member State the information and documents in its possession. Should the flag State decide to exercise its preferential jurisdiction, the intervening State shall transfer to it the documents and evidence it has assembled, the corpus delicti and the persons detained. Amendment 34 Article 8, paragraph 6 (Convention) 6. Surrender of detained persons shall not be subject to formal extradition proceedings; an order for detention of the person concerned or an equivalent document shall suffice, provided that the fundamental principles of each Party's legal system are observed. The Intervening State shall certify the length of time spent in detention. 6. Surrender of detained persons shall not be subject to formal extradition proceedings; the original or a certified copy of an order for detention of the person concerned or an equivalent document issued by a judicial authority of the flag State, including in cases where such action is taken in accordance with the Council Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA of 13 June 2002 on the European arrest warrant and the surrender procedures between Member States 1 , shall suffice, provided that the fundamental principles of each Party's legal system are observed. The Intervening State shall certify the length of time spent in detention. _________________________ 1 OJ L 190, 18.7.2002, p. 1. Amendment 35 Article 8, paragraph 8 (Convention) 8. Without prejudice to the general powers of Member States' Ministries of Foreign Affairs, any communication provided for in this Convention shall, as a rule, pass through their Ministries of Justice. 8. Each Member State shall appoint a central authority, coming under the Ministry of Justice, which shall be responsible for sending, receiving and notifying any communication provided for in this Convention and which shall remain operational twenty-four hours a day throughout the year. Amendment 36 Article 9, paragraph 1 (Convention) 1. Member States agree to settle disputes between them on the interpretation or application of this Convention, including those concerning damages, by direct negotiation between the respective Ministries of Justice and Foreign Affairs. deleted Amendment 37 Article 9, paragraph 2 (Convention) 2. Where agreement cannot be reached using the arrangement in paragraph 1, the Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction to rule on any dispute between Member States regarding the interpretation or the application of this Convention, whenever such dispute cannot be settled by the Council within six months of its being referred to the Council by one of its members. 2. The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction to rule on any dispute between Member States regarding