with Article 9, are higher than the long-term objectives referred to in paragraph 1 but below or equal to the target values set out in Section II of Annex I. Within such zones and agglomerations Member States shall prepare and implement measures with the aim of achieving as far as possible the long-term objectives as from the date specified in Section III of Annex I . (Amendment 6) Article 5 Member States shall draw up a list of zones and agglomerations in which ozone levels meet the long-term objectives. They shall maintain the levels of ozone in those zones and agglomerations below the long-term objectives and shall endeavour to preserve the best ambient air quality compatible with sustainable development. Member States shall draw up a list of zones and agglomerations in which ozone levels meet the long-term objectives. They shall maintain the levels of ozone in those zones and agglomerations below the long-term objectives and shall endeavour to preserve the best ambient air quality compatible with sustainable development and a high level of environmental and human health protection. (Amendment 7) Article 6(1), 1st subparagraph 1. Member States shall take appropriate steps to disseminate up-to-date information on ambient concentrations of ozone to the public as well as to appropriate organisations representing the interests of sensitive population groups and other relevant health care bodies, by means, for example, of the broadcasting media, the press, information screens or computer network services. This shall include information on relevant precursor substances in so far as these are not covered by existing Community legislation. 1. Member States shall ensure that up-to-date information on ambient concentrations of ozone is routinely made available to the public as well as to appropriate organisations such as environmental organisations, consumer organisations, organisations representing the interests of sensitive population groups and other relevant health care bodies, by means, for example, of the broadcasting media, the press, information screens or computer network services. This shall include information on relevant precursor substances in so far as these are not covered by existing Community legislation. (Amendment 8) Article 6(2) 2. The information threshold and the alert threshold for concentrations of ozone in ambient air are given in Section I of Annex II. Details supplied to the public in accordance with Article 10 of Directive 96/62/EC when either threshold is exceeded shall include as a minimum the items listed in Section II of Annex II. Member States shall where practicable also take steps to supply such information when an exceedance of the information threshold or alert threshold is predicted. 2. The information threshold and the alert threshold for concentrations of ozone in ambient air are given in Section I of Annex II. Details supplied to the public in accordance with Article 10 of Directive 96/62/EC when either threshold is exceeded shall include as a minimum the items listed in Section II of Annex II. Member States shall also take steps to supply such information when an exceedance of the information threshold or alert threshold is predicted. (Amendment 9) Article 7 In accordance with Article 7(3) of Directive 96/62/EC,