on its contents. EUFOR personnel are obliged to report any concerns regarding sexual exploitation and abuse through the established reporting mechanisms. The zero tolerance policy, supported by a strong information policy and adequate training, has probably been central to there being no reported cases of sexual exploitation and abuse in Operation EUFOR RD Congo. The Commission and High Representative are also addressing the structural factors that lead to sexual exploitation and abuse by mainstreaming human rights and gender into policy and external action and implementing initiatives to protect and support vulnerable groups. The European Union attaches great importance to continued efforts to implement Security Council Resolution 1325 on women and peace and security, and its subsequent resolutions. Further, the EU welcomes the DPKO’s child protection policy, and requests full implementation of the policy. The promotion of human rights, gender awareness and children’s rights at all stages of a mission will substantively abate sexual exploitation and abuse. It is the EU’s belief that recent decrease in numbers of reported allegations of sexual exploitation and abuse in United Nations peacekeeping operations is a result of UN’s determination in implementing the policy of ‘zero tolerance’. These efforts must continue and will be fully supported by the European Union. Further reading: 1. ECHA/ECPS Task Force on Protection from Sexual Exploitation and Abuse, 2010: http://www.un.org/en/pseataskforce/ 2. Statement on behalf of the European Union and its Member States by H.E. Mr Csaba Körösi, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Hungary to the United Nations at the Opening Session of the General Assembly Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, United Nations, 22 February 2011, New York: http://www.eu-un.europa.eu/articles/en/article_10695_en.htm 3. Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces, Peacekeepers and Sexual Violence, 1 August 2007: http://www.humansecuritygateway.info/documents/DCAF_Peacekeepers_SexualViolence_ArmedConflict.pdf