has been verified as not exceeding the limit values laid down under a specific harmonised test procedure adopted by the Commission . 2. The Commission shall specify a standard for measuring the leak rate. 3 . From 1 January 2011 , Member States shall no longer issue EC type-approval pursuant to Directive 70/156/EEC for any new type of vehicle if the global warming potential of the fluorinated greenhouse gases used in the air-conditioning system is higher than 50. For small-scale manufacturers, this provision shall apply from 1 January 2013. 4. From 1 January 2014, Member States shall refuse the registration and shall prohibit the sale, entry into service or use of new vehicles fitted with an air-conditioning system using fluorinated greenhouse gases with a global warming potential higher than 50. 5. Member States shall promote the installation of air-conditioning systems using a gas, such as CO 2 , that is efficient and which has a global warming potential of less than 100. If Member States introduce fiscal or other incentives to encourage the installation of systems with lower global warming potential, they shall notify these measures to the Commission. 6. Member States may grant tax or financial concessions for the conversion of existing vehicles in operation if air-conditioning systems using fluorinated greenhouse gases with a global warming potential of less than 50 are installed. Article 11 Promotion of alternatives Member States shall promote the placing on the market of equipment using gases with a global warming potential of less than 100. If Member States introduce fiscal or other incentives to encourage the placing on the market of such equipment they shall notify these measures to the Commission. Article 12 Information to consumers Member States shall ensure that consumers and citizens are informed of the global warming potential of products containing fluorinated greenhouse gases. Article 13 Progress report The Commission shall, no later than two years after the entry into force of this Regulation, submit to the European Parliament and the Council a progress report on the development of climate-friendly air-conditioning systems. On the basis of this report, the Commission shall review the dates for their introduction pursuant to Article 10(1) and (3), and shall confirm these or, where necessary, submit proposals. Article 14 Review 1. On the basis of progress in potential containment or replacement of fluorinated greenhouse gases in air-conditioning and refrigeration systems, the Commission shall review the present legislation and report thereon to the European Parliament and the Council by 31 December 2005 at the latest. The report shall be accompanied where necessary by legislative proposals. 2. Within two years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on possible actions to gradually remove HFC in new air-conditioning, refrigeration and heat-pump systems based on an assessment of alternative technologies with lower total (direct and indirect) greenhouse gas emissions. 3 . Within five years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council based on the