Cancún objective of holding the increase in global average temperatures below 2 deg C above pre-industrial levels; 65. Calls on the Commission to ensure that national and sector-specific roadmaps are subjected to independent scrutiny in order to assess whether full account has been taken of the potential use of best available technology, and that proposed costs accord with understood practice; 66. Expects the Commission to take roadmaps fully into account when preparing policy initiatives, and also to highlight instances where industry sectors have not prepared such action plans; 67. Calls on the relevant industry groups to prepare sector-specific roadmaps that will set out how EU low-carbon objectives can best be realised, including the levels of investment required and the sources of funding to be utilised; 68. Expects the Commission and the Member States to support those sectors that have made roadmaps to further develop the initiatives and partnerships that follow from them, for the development of breakthrough technologies to decarbonise the energy-intensive industries concerned; 69. Calls on the Commission to update the 2050 roadmap and forecasting every 3-5 years, and to integrate the sectoral, regional and Member State roadmaps into the updated version of its own roadmaps, the models and methodologies used for that purpose being fully transparent; 70. Stresses that a much more efficient use of resources is essential for achieving a low-carbon economy; therefore urges Member States to develop or strengthen existing resource efficiency strategies and mainstream these into national policies for growth and jobs by 2013; Power generation 71. Recalls that world primary energy demand will increase by more than 30 % up to 2035, thereby increasing global competition for energy resources; 72. Maintains that Member States should have the widest possible means of achieving low-carbon electricity generation (including renewable energy sources, nuclear power, use of carbon capture and storage technology, and sustainably produced biomass), and that none should be excluded from the range of options available to meet the requirements; 73. Calls on the Commission to be particularly vigilant as regards any leakage of energy production outside the EU ETS, paying attention to Member States with interconnections to countries outside the EU; 74. Calls on the Commission to assess the effectiveness of mechanisms that enable sound operation of the electricity market in a low carbon economy, and if necessary to submit legislative proposals for the closer integration of crossborder electricity markets and for other measures to address the need to determine the balance and availability of generation capacity; 75. Calls on the EU to commit itself to the total decarbonisation of the energy sector by 2050; 76. Invites the Member States and the Commission to invest more in the energy infrastructure necessary for the transition to a sustainable economy; emphasises that Europe should be at the cutting edge in the development of standards and interoperable energy-related Internet technologies and energy-efficient ICT applications, in particular smart grids, the full and timely deployment of smart home systems such as smart meters designed to benefit the consumer, and modernising and developing an interconnected European electricity supergrid and LNG infrastructures; emphasises, with