Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (11 March 2011) 1. The dioxin contamination incident has been discussed in detail at four meetings of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health respectively on 11, 19, 20 and 24 January 2011 and at the meeting of the Chief Veterinary Officers (CVO) on 18 January 2011. At all these meetings, the representative of the German delegation answered all of the questions raised by the other delegations. The German authorities are managing the contamination incident effectively and this has been recognised in the abovementioned meetings of the Standing Committee of the Food Chain and Animal Health and Chief Veterinary Officers (CVO). Therefore, the Commission considers that there is no reason to impose restrictive measures as regards food of animal origin from Germany. The Rapid Alert System for Feed and Food (RASFF) proved to be an efficient tool in informing Member States in a timely manner of potentially contaminated feed or food that had been exported to some of them. This enabled the Member States concerned to take the necessary action. Moreover, during this incident, the EU traceability system had worked, allowing constant monitoring of the situation and immediate intervention when needed. 2. Based on the available information, fatty acids intended for technical purposes were mixed in feed fat for the production of animal feed. The technical fatty acids were contaminated with dioxins. It is still unknown how the fatty acids got contaminated by dioxins. An investigation by the Public Prosecutor in Germany is currently ongoing. 2 256 tonnes of potentially contaminated feed fat was delivered to 25 compound feed manufacturers in Germany, which produced about 100 000 — 200 000 tons of compound feed, containing 2 % — 10 % of the potentially contaminated feed fat. The feed which hads not yet fed to animals was blocked and withdrawn from the market. 3. The competent authorities in Germany, during their investigations into the company concerned, detected an analytical report of an own control performed in March 2010 indicating a level of dioxins in feed fat which was twice the EU maximum level. Even if this result was not notified to the competent authorities, which is a breach of EC law, the specific dioxin congener pattern involved in the March 2010 incident was different from the one in the current incident, and it can therefore be stated with certainty that these findings are not related to this contamination incident even if they occurred in the same plant. Article 55 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules OJ L 165, 30.4.2004. provides that Member States must provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive sanctions applicable to such infringements. Given the level found in the feed fat, this incident will not have immediate adverse consequences for public health.