out in compliance with (b) , unless this proves impossible or involves a disproportionate effort . (c) notification to third parties to whom the data have been disclosed of any rectification, erasure or blocking carried out in compliance with (b). Amendment 49 Article 21, paragraph 2, introductory part and point (a) 2. Any act the data subject is entitled to according to paragraph 1 shall be refused if necessary 2. Any act the data subject is entitled to according to paragraph 1 shall be refused only if necessary (a) to enable the controller to fulfil its lawful duties properly, Amendment 50 Article 22 a (new) Article 22a Automated individual decisions 1. Member States shall grant the right to every person not to be subject to a decision or action which produces legal effects concerning him or significantly affects him and which is based solely on the automated processing of data intended to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to him, such as his reliability, conduct, etc. 2. Subject to the other Articles of this Framework Decision, Member States shall provide that a person may only be the subject of a decision or action of the kind referred to in paragraph 1 if that decision or action is authorized by a law which also lays down measures to safeguard the data subject's legitimate interests, such as readily available means allowing him to be informed about the logic involved in the automated processing of data concerning him and to put his point of view, unless this is incompatible with the purpose for which data are processed . Amendment 51 Article 24, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 Having regard to the state of the art and the cost of their implementation, such measures shall ensure a level of security appropriate to the risks represented by the processing and the nature of the data to be protected. Measures shall be deemed necessary where the effort they involve is not disproportionate to the objective they are designed to achieve in terms of protection. Having regard to the state of the art and the cost of their implementation, such measures shall ensure a high level of security appropriate to the risks represented by the processing and the nature of the data to be protected. Amendment 52 Article 24, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1a (new) Member States shall ensure that the effectiveness of the measures set out in the first subparagraph is monitored systematically and shall report regularly on their effectiveness. Amendment 53 Article 25, paragraph 1, introductory part 1. Member States shall provide that every controller keeps a register of any processing operation or sets of such an operation intended to serve a single purpose or several related purposes. The information to be contained in the register shall include 1. Member States shall provide that every controller keeps a register of any access and processing operation or sets of such an operation intended to serve a single purpose or several related purposes. The information to be contained in the register shall include Amendment 54 Article 26, paragraph 3 3. Member States