is a strategic moment to draw the lessons from four years of operation of Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 establishing a financing instrument for development cooperation (DCI). The Commission has announced that it will present its proposals for the post-2013 Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) before the summer recess and the legislative proposals for the financing instruments for external action later this year. The purpose of this report is to establish at an early stage Parliament's position with regard to a new financing instrument for EU development cooperation, based on the lessons drawn from our scrutiny of the implementation of the DCI. Lessons learned Following the entry into force of the DCI, the European Parliament’s Committee on Development established four (now five) permanent working groups to exercise Parliament's right of scrutiny over all major programming documents proposed by the Commission. The process led to a sustained and structured in-depth dialogue between DEVE and the Commission, and constituted a useful learning process for both institutions: we learned about the difficulties faced by the Commission during programming, and your rapporteur hopes that the Commission also became more aware of the practical meaning of Parliament’s democratic scrutiny and our working methods. While the dialogue was constructive, and the Commission made great efforts to inform the working groups about the follow-up to Parliament's recommendations, regrettably it did not induce the Commission to heed many of our Committee's requests nor the resolutions adopted by Parliament The committee produced five resolutions adopted by plenary under Rule 81 of Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, signalling to the Commission that in 11 draft measures the Commission had exceeded its implementing powers. Only in three cases, however, did the Commission adapt or withdraw its draft decision. ; Parliament's position was only sporadically reflected in the draft implementing measures the Commission submitted to the DCI Management Committee. We were also disappointed to see that the substantive scrutiny work carried out by Parliament did not receive any echo from the representatives of the Member States in the DCI Committee. Contrary to Parliament, Member States did not seem to focus on checking the compliance of Commission proposals with the legal provisions of the DCI (in particular the ODA-compatibility requirement). The main problem which emerged from our dialogue seems to be a difficulty in understanding or accepting the specific role of development cooperation in the context of the EU's external action. This is understandable: our main partner in the Commission was DG RELEX, which had as its main mandate the promotion of EU interests in the rest of the world. A mental adaptation is required to understand that development cooperation is the one policy area of external action (besides humanitarian aid) which has not been designed to serve EU interests, but to defend the interests of the most marginalized and vulnerable populations of this planet: Poverty alleviation, sustainable human, social and economic development - in short: the right to a decent life for all. The difficulty in recognising the different and specific mandate of our development policy and translating it into concrete programmes and measures was apparent in