Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (25 June 2007) The Commission is fully aware of the need to make essential information available to stakeholders in a comprehensible form. It is currently preparing a comprehensive package of materials and tools to be made available in particular to enterprises, to understand their obligations under REACH. This will include information material such as brochures, further press material and guidance. The guidance will include a user-friendly introduction for enterprises, especially for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs), which might not be familiar with the REACH Regulation Regulation EC No 1907/2006, OJ L 396, 30.12.2006. and specialist material covering a wide range of possible questions by enterprises. The Commission is planning to provide the general information and elements that will be needed by less specialised companies to understand their obligations under REACH in all Community languages. The specialist information is likely to have to undergo frequent revisions and updates in order to remain up to date and complete. For these reasons, the Commission's immediate efforts will focus on providing one linguistic version which is continuously kept up to date. The first version of these documents was made available on 1 June 2007, the date of entry into force of REACH and the establishment of the new European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). In particular, the aim is to have the following documents available in all Community languages: — the introductory elements of the ECHA website; — ‘about REACH’: a simple introduction to the REACH legislation for the general public; — a press package with key information for journalists; — a brochure, aimed in particular at SMEs, informing them about their obligations under REACH and where they can find information and assistance. Instead of translating the initial Q&A memo of 13 December 2006 MEMO/06/488. referred to in the Honourable Member’s question, the intention is to translate the press package for journalists referred to above, which will include equivalent material taking into account latest developments. A series of further documents and tools is currently being developed. These documents and tools will progressively be made available by the Agency which has the responsibility under the REACH Regulation to provide the necessary guidance to enterprises and other stakeholders and to competent authorities. Subject to the Agency’s decisions, the documents intended for the more general public and/or summaries of other documents are expected to be translated into the official languages of the Community.