of law at the next part-session. A subject cannot be included on the agenda for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law if it is already on the agenda for that part-session. There are no provisions in the Rules to allow a joint debate on a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with paragraph 2, second subparagraph, and a committee report on the same subject. When a request is made pursuant to Rule 149(3) that it be established whether a quorum is present, this request shall be valid only for the motion for a resolution which is to be put to the vote and not for those which follow. Rule 116 Written declarations 1. Up to five Members may submit a written declaration of not more than 200 words on a matter falling within the sphere of activities of the European Union. Written declarations shall be printed in the official languages and distributed. They shall be included with the names of the signatories in a register. This register shall be public and shall be maintained outside the entrance to the Chamber during part-sessions and between part-sessions in an appropriate location to be determined by the College of Quaestors. The contents of a written declaration shall not go beyond the form of a declaration and shall not, in particular, contain any decision on matters for the adoption of which specific procedures and competences are laid down in the Rules of Procedure. 2. The signature of any Member may be added to a declaration included in the register. 3. Where a declaration is signed by the majority of Parliament's component Members, the President shall notify Parliament accordingly and publish the names of the signatories in the minutes. 4. Such a declaration shall, at the end of the part-session, be forwarded to the institutions named therein together with the names of the signatories. It shall be included in the minutes of the sitting at which it is announced. Publication in the minutes shall close the procedure. 5. A written declaration that has stood in the register for over three months and has not been signed by at least one half of the component Members of Parliament shall lapse. Rule 117 Consultation of the European Economic and Social Committee 1. A committee may request that the European Economic and Social Committee be consulted on matters of a general nature or on specific points. The committee shall indicate the deadline for the European Economic and Social Committee to deliver its opinion. 2. A request for consultation of the European Economic and Social Committee shall be approved by Parliament without debate. Rule 118 Consultation of the Committee of the Regions 1. A committee may request that the Committee of the Regions be consulted on matters of a general nature or on specific points. The committee shall indicate the deadline for the Committee of the Regions to deliver its opinion. 2. A request for consultation of the Committee of the Regions shall be approved by Parliament without debate. Rule 119