and small hydropower): research should aim at increasing overall conversion efficiency, driving down the cost of electricity significantly, enhancing system reliability and reducing the environmental impact further. § renewable fuel production ("biofuels"): Improve technologies for the sustainable production and supply chains of solid, liquid and gaseous fuels from biomass in particular biofuels for transport. Currently, there is a lot of discussion on the still unused potential of biomass (i.e. waste and residues from agriculture including vegetal and animal substances, forestry and related industries, as well as industrial and municipal waste). Electricity or biogas can be produced from biomass (e.g. from the wood waste gained during the processing of wood). § renewable energy for heating and cooling (a growing part of EU´s energy consumption is used for heating and cooling) § CO 2 capture and storage technologies for zero emission power generation : under this ambitious title the Commission intends to finance projects dealing with the reduction of the environmental impacts of fossil fuels which will inevitably continue to represent a significant share of the energy mix for decades to come. § clean coal technologies : coal fuelled power plants remain the workhorse of electricity generation worldwide, but have considerable potential for further efficiency gains and emissions reductions, particularly concerning CO 2 . § smart energy networks : R&D effort is required to increase the efficiency, flexibility, safety and reliability of the European electricity ad gas systems and networks (see recent power cuts in different Member States of the EU). The proper implementation of EU legislation concerning the internal market in energy by the Member States as well as the completion of several TEN-energy projects will foster this development . § energy efficiency and savings : there is a vast potential in this area which is - apart from the diversification of energy sources - probably one of the most promising strategies. § knowledge for energy policy making : including the building of databases and scenarios for an enlarged EU and the assessment of the impact of energy policies on security of supply, environment, society and competitiveness. § fusion technology: the EU is about to join forces with other major global economies on the ITER nuclear fusion project. With adequate research funding upfront, there is huge potential for fusion technology to provide energy at a practical level for society with limited associated waste problems. The funding issue is all the more relevant given that global R&D in energy technology is estimated at only 0.3% of the world's annual EUR 4 trillion energy market. 19. Apart from FP7 there are other non-research related energy programmes known under the title "Intelligent Energy-Europe". They aim at promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency, encouraging the use of clean urban transport and alternative fuels. This programme is now included in the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (CIP): 20% of the overall budget of the CIP ) According to the MFF 2007-2013 a maximum amount of EUR 3 284 million is foreseen for the CIP for the period 2007-2013 (overall level for commitment appropriations). is earmarked for energy. In the