the categories of assigned revenue referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and wherever possible shall indicate the amount. Article 19 1. The Commission may accept any donation made to the Communities, such as foundations, subsidies, gifts and bequests. 2. Acceptance of donations which may involve some financial charge shall be subject to the authorisation of the European Parliament and the Council, which shall act on the matter within two months of the date of receipt of the request from the Commission. If no objection has been made within that period, the Commission shall take a final decision in respect of acceptance. Article 20 1. The implementing rules may specify the cases where certain revenue may be deducted from invoices or requests for payment, which shall then be passed for payment of the net amount. 2. The cost of products or services provided to the Communities incorporating taxes refunded by the Member States pursuant to the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities or by third countries on the basis of the relevant agreements shall be charged to the budget for the ex-tax amount. 3. Adjustments may be made in respect of exchange differences occurring in the implementation of the budget. The final gain or loss shall be included in the balance for the year. CHAPTER 6 Principle of specification Article 21 Appropriations shall be earmarked for specific purposes by title and chapter; the chapters shall be further subdivided into articles and items. Article 22 1. Each institution may, within its own section of the budget, make transfers from one title to another within a total limit of 10 % of the appropriations for the financial year, from one chapter to another and from one article to another. 2. Three weeks before making the transfers referred to in paragraph 1, the institutions shall inform the budgetary authority of their intentions. In the event of duly justified reasons being raised within this period by either branch of the budgetary authority, the procedure laid down in Article 24 shall apply. 3. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 are without prejudice to the specific provisions of Article 23 as regards the Commission. Article 23 1. The Commission may, within its own section of the budget: a) transfer appropriations within articles and transfers between articles within each chapter; b) as regards expenditure on staff and administration, transfer appropriations from one title to another within a total limit of 10 % of the appropriations for the financial year; c) as regards operational expenditure, transfer appropriations between chapters within the same title, up to a maximum total of 10 % of the appropriations for the year shown on the line from which the transfer is made. Three weeks before making the transfers referred to in points (b) and (c) of the first paragraph, the Commission shall inform the budgetary authority of its decision. In the event of duly justified reasons being raised within this period by either branch of the budgetary authority, the procedure laid down in Article 24 shall apply. 2. The Commission