authorities responsible for health systems must be able to rely on those operating principles being respected and structures provided for their implementation throughout the Community. It is therefore appropriate to require that it is the authorities of the Member State on whose territory the healthcare is provided, which are responsible for ensuring compliance with those operating principles. This is necessary to ensure the confidence of patients in cross-border healthcare, which is itself necessary for achieving patients mobility ▌as well as a high level of health protection. Notwithstanding those common values it is accepted that Member States take different decisions on ethical grounds as regards the availability of certain treatments and the concrete access conditions. This Directive is without prejudice to ethical diversity. ( 15 ) Given that it is impossible to know in advance whether a given healthcare provider will supply healthcare to a patient coming from another Member State or a patient from their own Member State, it is necessary for the requirements to ensure that healthcare is provided in accordance with common principles and clear quality and safety standards are applicable to all types of healthcare in order to ensure the freedom to provide and obtain crossborder healthcare, which is the aim of the Directive . Member States' authorities have to respect the shared overarching values of universality, access to good quality care, equity and solidarity, which have been already widely recognised by the Community institutions and by all the Member States as constituting a set of values that are shared by health systems across Europe. Members States also have to ensure that these values are respected with regard to patients and citizens from other Member States, and that all patients are treated equitably on the basis of their healthcare need rather than their Member State of social security affiliation. In doing so, Member States must respect the principles of freedom of movement of individuals within the internal market, non-discrimination inter alia with regard to nationality, ▌necessity and proportionality of any restrictions on free movement. However, nothing in this Directive requires healthcare providers to accept for planned treatment or to prioritise patients from other Member States to the detriment of other patients with similar health needs, such as through increasing waiting time for treatment. In order to enable patients to make an informed choice when they seek to receive healthcare in another Member State, Member States should ensure that patients receive on request the relevant information on health and quality standards enforced in the Member State of treatment as well as on the characteristics of healthcare provided by a specific healthcare provider. Such information should also be made available in formats accessible to persons with disabilities. ( 16 ) Moreover, patients from other Member States should enjoy equal treatment with the nationals of the Member State of treatment and, according to the general principles of equity and non discrimination, as recognised in Article 21 of the Charter, they should in no way be discriminated against on the basis of their sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language,