showed an average ‘transposition deficit’ – i.e. the number of directives not implemented – of 6.3%. This provoked a reaction at the very highest level, and European Councils ... have made repeated calls to Member States to reach an ‘interim’ transposition deficit of 1.5% – i.e. to have no more than 1.5% of all internal market directives not implemented. The last scoreboard (February 2007) showed that in fact a majority of Member States have reached that interim target of 1.5%. The conclusion we draw, therefore, is that timely implementation is possible ." H10 Verbatim, page 15, para.6. An issue repeatedly debated was the question if the systematic use of EC regulations would not be a better option to ensure speedy and accurate application of EC legislation throughout the EU. On this subject, Mrs. DURAND reminded that " le traité impose parfois le recours à la directive. Dans certains cas, il apparaît aussi que laisser des libertés aux États membres constitue politiquement, et compte tenu du secteur, la meilleure voie, et la directive s'impose. Mais les États membres eux-mêmes incitent à l'occasion la Commission à choisir plutôt la voie du règlement ." Mrs MINOR echoed by stating that " perhaps we should make more use of regulations, but the reality is that most Member States are somewhat reluctant to expand the use of the regulation in preference to the directive. Most Member States continue to prefer the directive as a means of legislation, because it enables them to adapt the rules, not necessarily mis-adapt or abuse that power of adaptation, but to adapt the rules to the national context. ..." H10 Verbatim, page 18, para.3. 2. Application As explained previously, Member States are under an obligation to ensure the full and effective application of a directive; they are not discharged of this obligation merely by adopting the necessary implementing measures. The adoption of national measures correctly transposing a directive does not exhaust the effects of the directive. The provisions of a Directive also have to be applied so as to achieve the objectives pursued. Commission representatives emphasized the key role of Member States in cooperating for a consistent application of EC legislation. "Il est du devoir de la Commission de veiller à la bonne application du droit communautaire, mais il est aussi de la responsabilité première des États membres de le respecter", said Mrs. DURAND, recalling that " les inspecteurs de la Commission ne se substituent pas aux contrôleurs nationaux. Ce qu'il font, c'est qu'ils vérifient si les contrôles nationaux ont bien été mis en place ." Although the Member States have the primary responsibility for ensuring application, it is also up to the Commission to monitor proper and full implementation of EU law, which includes application as well as transposition. One of the key elements for improving the follow-up of application is the need to increase the Member States' awareness of their duties and obligations when complying with the common rules. It is first and foremost at the national level that the key control mechanisms have to be implemented Some Members States