Answer given by Mr Andor on behalf of the Commission (29 March 2010) The right of Member States temporarily to restrict the fundamental freedom of Bulgarian and Romanian workers to move to their territory to work and settle there without needing a work permit is the result of the negotiations on the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU. It is laid down in the transitional arrangements in the Act of Accession of Bulgaria and Romania as a possibility which Member States can use for at most seven years following those countries’ accession. The Honourable Member seems to be suggesting that those restrictions constitute discrimination on the basis of nationality. However, requiring work permits of Bulgarian and Romanian workers pursuant to the transitional arrangements but not of other EU workers does not constitute discrimination on grounds of nationality that is contrary to EC law. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU Article 18 TFEU. prohibits discrimination on the basis of nationality, without prejudice to any special Treaty provisions: the transitional arrangements in the Accession Treaties that allow for the temporary work-permit requirement are such special Treaty provisions. Transitional measures have been agreed in four of the past six enlargements as a temporary derogation from the fundamental freedom of movement as workers to avoid serious labour market disturbances caused by a sudden inflow of labour upon accession. Currently, they apply to workers from eight of the ten Member States that joined the EU in 2004, in addition to workers from Bulgaria and Romania. The Commission does not intend to present a further report on the current transitional measures, but will continue to ensure that the Member States that make use of them do so in strict accordance with the conditions laid down in the Accession Treaties. It also recommends, on the basis of the finding of its November 2008 report ‘The impact of free movement of workers in the context of EU enlargement’ (COM(2008)765 final of 18 November 2008). that the overall impact of post-enlargement mobility had been positive, that the Member States that continue to maintain restrictions on labour-market access review their position in the light of that finding. Lastly, the Commission would point out that the transitional measures restricting the free movement of EU workers are temporary and that they require those Member States that make use of them Currently 10 of 25 Member States still restrict access of Bulgarian and Romanian workers to the labour market while 15 Member States have already fully opened their labour markets. always to give preferential first-time labour-market access to EU workers who do not yet enjoy free movement as workers over non-EU workers. Furthermore, the current Directives on legal migration of non-EU nationals do not automatically create a right of admission for applicants who fulfil the admission criteria laid down therein: decisions on the number of applicants admitted are the sole responsibility of the individual Member States concerned.