WRITTEN QUESTION E-0769/05 by Renato Brunetta (PPE-DE) to the Commission (1 March 2005) Subject: Restrictions on transit via the Brenner motorway By imposing a further restriction on the transit of heavy goods vehicles along the Brenner motorway, on the Inn valley section of the A12 motorway between, Hall-Mitte and Worgl-West, from km 20359 to km 66780 , the Tyrol has extended the ban on night movements of vehicles with a total weight in excess of 7.5 tonnes. The ban initially applied from 22.00 to 5.00 over the period 1 October 2002 to 31 March 2003 but has now been extended throughout the year and as from 1 November 2004 the hours have been further extended as published in the Tyrol Official Journal, Vol 26/2004, Order No 79 of the Governor of the Tyrol of 20 October 2004. This ban on traffic has been introduced unilaterally for environmental reasons, despite the fact that its effects have been shown to be counter-productive by a study carried out by the University of Graz, which also drew attention to the dangers involved. In the absence of viable alternatives for road transport, the ban will ultimately paralyse traffic and cause severe congestion of goods transport with serious economic repercussions. Furthermore, the continuing ban on TIR traffic is creating structural problems for goods transport in the Community area, in particular for freight originating in Italy or destined for Italy. The problems created by this situation are two-fold - firstly, Italian firms which are forced to go round Austria to reach Germany face increased costs and, secondly, they find it impossible to guarantee that incoming goods will arrive in order to safeguard production activities. In the light of this, does the Commission not consider that: — the action taken by the Tyrol authorities is in breach of the objectives of the internal market and consequently of the principle of the free movement of goods? — the unilateral nature of the action runs counter to the need to connect island regions and in particular goods coming from the south of Italy and destined for central and northern Europe, as well as freight traffic to and from the countries of Eastern Europe? — a measure of this kind constitutes distortion of competition for Italian undertakings which are facing increased costs? Can the Commission also say: — what measures it intends to take, within an appropriate timeframe, to ensure that Austria allows optimum use to be made of infrastructure which is of European interest? — how it intends to solve the problems of traffic congestion upstream and downstream of the protected section of motorway? — how it intends to deal with the distortion of competition facing road haulage operators and Italian industry in terms of delivery costs and times?