argued that this was essential in a Europe of 25 in order to avoid social dumping. Mrs Helle THORNING-SCHMIDT (EP, PES, DK) argued that it was necessary to avoid downward harmonisation of social provisions. A number of members from applicant countries on the other hand, argued that minimum standards could cause them difficulties. Mr Jozef OLEKSY urged that the matter should remain strictly the competence of the national authorities. Services in the general interest A number of members called for the notion of ‘services in the general interest’ to be consolidated within the Constitution, for example Mr Hans-Martin BURY and Mr Caspar EINEM (Pt, A) who argued that this was of fundamental importance not only for individual citizens but also regional bodies. Mrs Cristiana MUSCARDINE and Mrs Lena HJELM-WALLEN all put forward similar arguments. A small minority including Mr Gijs de VRIES and Mr Georges JACOBS took the view that the existing provisions were already adequate. Social partners Mr David O’SULLIVAN called for the role of the social partners to be strengthened allowing them to negotiate independently. Mr Emilio GABAGLIO (ETUC) put forward similar arguments while seeking a transnational role for trade unions, an idea upheld by Mrs Lena HJELM-WELLEN. Mr Pierre CHEVALIER and Mr Adrian SEVERIN (Pt, Romania) recommended institutionalisation of social dialogue between trade unions, employers and the European institutions. Future work At the end of the Thursday meeting, about 10 speakers had still to take the floor on social affairs. They would be given the opportunity on Friday after which, on a request from Mr Ben FAYOT, a brief exchange of views would be held on the international situation regarding not the Iraqi crisis per se but its implications in the context of the Convention’s external policy deliberations. Members would then, as planned, discuss the regional and local dimension. For further information: André RICHE – Tel. (02) 284.0992 – E-mail: ariche@europarl.eu.int ANNEX I Articles 1 to 16 TITLE I: Definition and objectives of the Union Article 1: Establishment of the Union 1.Reflecting the will of the peoples and the States of Europe to build a common future, this Constitution establishes a Union [entitled …], within which the policies of the Member States shall be coordinated, and which shall administer certain common competences on a federal basis. 2. The Union shall respect the national identities of its Member States. 3. The Union shall be open to all European States whose peoples share the same values, respect them and are committed to promoting them together. Article 2: The Union's values The Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, liberty, democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, values which are common to the Member States. Its aim is a society at peace, through the practice of tolerance, justice and solidarity. Article 3: The Union's objectives 1. The Union's aim is to promote peace, its values and the well-being of its peoples. 2. The Union shall work for a Europe of sustainable development based on balanced economic growth and social justice, with a free single market,