cells, embryos have to be destroyed and the patenting of technologies where human embryos are destroyed or used for commercial or industrial purposes is excluded according to Article 6(2)(c) of Directive 98/44/EC, K. whereas the public must be fully informed and the Union must play a leading role in promoting public debate, 1. Supports biotechnology as a future technology and notes the importance of an appropriate political framework to support this technology; 2. Supports further stem-cell research and other alternatives to promote human health but underlines its fundamental position regarding the application of biotechnology to human beings, especially the refusal of interventions in the human germ line, the refusal of cloning of the human being in all phases of its development and the refusal of research on human embryos, which destroys the embryo; 3. Reaffirms that no consideration of research can be allowed to override that of the dignity of human life; 4. Calls on the Commission to take all necessary measures to remove any ambiguity in European patent legislation and to close any loopholes that exist; 5. Asks the European Patent Office and the Member States to grant patents on human DNA only in connection with a concrete application and asks that the scope of the patent should be limited to this concrete application so that other users can use and patent the same DNA sequence for other applications (purpose-bound protection); 6. Asks the European Patent Office to set up within its institution a supervisory board to review sensitive decisions covered by Directive 98/44/EC; 7. Requests that the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies could be strengthened in this regard; 8. Points out that patent EP1257 168 constitutes a violation of Directive 98/44/EC because human germ cells which are part of the human body are patented; 9. Notes its deep concern over the potential of this patent to introduce methods for the selection of sex in humans; 10. Decides to formally oppose patent EP1257 168 and asks its services to prepare such an opposition immediately; 11. Asks the European Patent Office, the Commission and the competent authorities in the Member States to give no reason to doubt that all kinds of human cloning are excluded from patenting under Directive 98/44/EC; 12. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the European Patent Office.