the headings making an effective contribution to the expenditure relating to competitiveness, support for SMEs and aid for innovation remains nevertheless modest on account of the initial amounts involved. 2. Administrative expenditure for the policy area 'Economic and financial affairs' (budget heading 01 01 01) Your draftsman notes with satisfaction an increase of 8.1% over 2005 in the appropriations allocated to expenditure on staff in active employment. He believes that it is essential that the Commission departments have adequate resources available to discharge the tasks entrusted to them in this area and that the proposed increase is satisfactory. 3. Coordination and surveillance of Economic and Monetary Union (budget heading 01 02 02) Your draftsman welcomes the 4.9% increase in this budget heading proposed by the Commission since it is essential that political decision-makers and public opinion have analyses available that are of good quality in order to be able to monitor effectively developments in the European economy. 4. Prince - Communication on Economic and Monetary Union, including the euro (budget heading 01 02 04) Your draftsman welcomes the substantial increase of 40% earmarked for the PRINCE programme. Information campaigns about EMU and the euro are a vital instrument for the eurozone. Opinion polls have indeed revealed declining support for the euro, which is doubtless partly attributable to insufficient information being given to the public about the benefits of EMU and the real impact of the introduction of the euro on prices. New campaigns are necessary in the new Member States, particularly those at an advanced stage of preparation for their entry into the eurozone. 5. Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (budget heading 01 04 04) The purpose of this heading is support for small businesses and innovation by assisting access to sources of funding. The Competitiveness and Innovation Programme seeks to incorporate in an overall plan the various programmes in support of productivity, innovation and lasting growth. All efforts to facilitate the access of SMEs experiencing difficulties to reasonable financing need to be encouraged. Nevertheless, the bulk of these programmes does not allow easy identification of the objectives being pursued. Your draftsman welcomes the 55.3% increase in commitment appropriations. Nevertheless, in absolute terms, the sums allocated to this support remain modest: € 142.1 million in commitment appropriations and only € 117 million in payment appropriations (+30%). 6. European Investment Fund (budget heading 01 04 09) Participation in increasing the capital of the EIF is welcome as a way of encouraging risk capital. 7. Representation of the EU on the IASB The need to improve the procedure for drawing up and adopting the accounting standards produced by the IASB to which the EU has de facto delegated its responsibility for accounting standards requires the establishment of a system of funding capable of contributing to better governance of this body. In the light of the various funding schemes likely to be implemented, it is appropriate that the Commission should be in a position, where necessary, to provide direct funding. Furthermore, the Commission's resources in terms of quality staffing need to be adjusted to cope