ORAL QUESTION WITH DEBATE O-0010/06 pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure by Karin Riis-Jørgensen and Elizabeth Lynne , on behalf of the ALDE Group to the Council Subject: EU measures against trafficking in human beings and the launch of an anti-trafficking day The fight against trafficking in human beings is rightly one of the EU's priorities and a series of measures have been taken in order to fight against this scourge. Council Directive 2004/81/EC on residence permits for victims of trafficking and Council Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA on combating trafficking in human beings are two of the main instruments, together with the Daphne programme and measures to combat illegal immigration and organised crime. Can the Council outline which Member States have already complied with Council Directive 2004/81/EC on residence permits for victims of trafficking, and how (period of validity of the permit, conditions to be met in order to obtain it, etc.)? Council Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA on combating trafficking in human beings instructs the Member States to implement the act before 1 August 2004 and the Council to draw up an assessment report on Member States' measures before 1 August 2005. Did the Council draw up that report? If not, why not? Which Member States complied, and how? Which did not, and why not? Will the EU take action to ensure that the Council of Europe Convention on Action Against Trafficking in Human Beings and the UN Convention on the same issue are ratified by all Member States? In its recently adopted report on trafficking in human beings the EP proposed the establishment of an anti-trafficking day in order to raise awareness of the issue, as well as the introduction of free telephone helplines. Would the Council be prepared to launch these initiatives this year? The EP also called for data to be compiled on trafficking in human beings. What initiatives will the Council take in this field? Would it be prepared to support a proposal for a regulation on Community statistics on trafficking in human beings, or otherwise to broaden the scope of the regulation on Community statistics on migration and international protection to cover trafficking as well? How does the Council intend to ensure that Eurojust and Europol are more actively involved in the fight against trafficking in human beings and to improve policing at national level? OJ L 261, 6.8.2004, p. 19. OJ L 203, 1.8.2002, p. 1.