Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (17 June 2008) The Commission is following the human rights situation in Colombia very closely, and regularly raises its human rights-related concerns in its political dialogue with the Colombian Government. It has consistently been urging the authorities to step up efforts to protect the most vulnerable population groups and to investigate and punish all human rights violations. In this context, the Commission has regularly pointed to the need to provide official protection for human rights defenders and civil society representatives of all stripes which unfortunately continue to be the object of threats and attacks. The Commission is well aware of the recent wave of threats and aggressions originating with the ‘Black Eagles’ and other new irregular armed groupings, which have, inter alia , affected a number of persons closely linked to the EU cooperation programme in Colombia, notably to the EC‑funded ‘peace laboratories’ active in Magdalena Medio and in other regions. The events in question have been the subject of a recent démarche of EU Troika Ambassadors in Bogotá, as well as of a declaration by the EU Presidency, issued on 19 May 2008. They were also raised by the Commission’s Director-General for External Relations when he visited Colombia in mid‑May 2008. Moreover, on 22 May 2008, EU Heads of Mission in Bogotá carried out a visit to Magdalena Medio, during which they met with human rights defenders, community leaders and civil society representatives and expressed the support of the EU for the work of the persons and organisations concerned, as well as EU solidarity against the threats they have received. Similar meetings have also taken place in Bogotá. In order to help protect persons working at grassroots level, the Commission’s Delegation in Bogotá has organised a meeting with representatives of EC‑funded projects and the EC’s Regional Security Officer, where recommendations related to the security of project workers were provided. The Peace and Development Programme for Magdalena Medio (PDPMM) has equally taken some preventive measures, including the temporary departure of project leaders and experts from the southern Bolívar region. As a result of the threats and of the security measures taken, the activities of the PDPMM in southern Bolívar have seen a certain decline. However, they are gradually returning to normality. The Commission would like to assure the Honourable Member that it continues to view the situation of human rights defenders in the regions covered by the peace laboratories, as well as in the rest of the country, with concern, and will continue to monitor developments in this area very carefully. It will persist in urging the Government to take measures for the effective protection of human rights defenders and for the speedy and effective investigation of all threats and attacks against them, and will itself adapt its recommendations and security measures to the changing circumstances.