culture in East Timor, focusing on a multiparty culture and institution-building – namely the parliament, government, judiciary, security, defence and law enforcement forces – and to assist in the urgent extension of media coverage to the whole country, as well as in strengthening the education and health networks, with particular attention addressed to the needs of children and women. Parliament calls on the international community to substantially increase support for effective human rights monitoring in East Timor and to provide assistance for the development of local human rights groups as well as for local services for victims of abuses. It calls on the EU Council and Commission to urge the East Timorese authorities to prohibit and disband any paramilitary groups and armed gangs, and to disarm armed civilians. It wants the EU to raise European concerns over police violence with the Government of East Timor in all official meetings and at the highest level. MEPs call on the East Timor state representatives to uphold international human rights standards and to ensure that the police's and armed forces' treatment of citizens conforms to international human rights norms and standards. They propose to send a European Parliament ad hoc delegation to East Timor next autumn to assess the political situation and examine the adequacy of EU assistance programs. Syria In its resolution on Syria, Parliament notes that after signing a petition for improved Syrian-Lebanese relations in view of UN Security Council Resolution 1680, it was reported that several civil society activists were arrested and tortured, notably including the lawyer Anwar al Bunni and writer Michel Kilo as well as others such as Khalil Hussein, Dr Safwan Tayfour, Mahmoud Issa, Fateh Jammous, Prof. Suleiman Achmar, Nidal Derwiche, Suleiman Shummor, Ghalem Amer, Muhammad Mahfud, Mahmoud Meri'im, Yasser Melhem and Omar Idlibi. Anwar Al Bunni, a lawyer specialising in human rights issues, was arrested on the streets of Damascus when he was on the verge of taking up a post as Director of a Human Rights Centre financed by the European Union As long ago as November 2005, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch reported the arrest and risk of torture of the peaceful activist Kamal Al-Labwani, who is now facing a life sentence for expressing his views. Parliament urges the authorities there immediately to release all activists still detained for signing a petition calling for improved Syrian-Lebanese relations . It further urges the Syrian authorities to reconsider all cases of political prisoners and immediately release all prisoners of conscience, and to: ensure that the detainees are well treated and not subject to torture or other ill-treatment; ensure that detained or imprisoned persons are given prompt, regular and unrestricted access to their lawyers, doctors and families. MEPs call on Syria to ratify the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. They strongly support the declaration of 19 May 2006 by the EU Presidency on behalf of the European Union regarding the recent arrests in Syria. They point out that respect for human rights constitutes a vital component in any future EU-Syria Association