Terence WYNN (PES, UK) Report on the discharge for implementing the European Union general budget for the financial year 2003 (Section III, Commission) (SEC(2004)1181 - C6-0012/2005 - 2004/ 2040(DEC)) (SEC(2004)1182 - C6-0013/2005 - 2004/ 2040(DEC)) Doc.: A6-0070/2005 Procedure : Discharge Debate : 12.04.2005 Vote : 12.04.2004 Vote Parliament granted the discharge for the European Commission's accounts for 2003 but stressed in the attached resolution that it is also firm about the need for Member States' financial control systems to be reviewed swiftly and for the failings to be remedied. To deal with the weaknesses in the Member States' management of EU funds, the resolution by Terry WYNN (PES, UK), which accompanies the recommendation for the budget discharge, suggests that the managing authority of each Member State (e.g. the finance ministry) should have to state every year that proper control systems are in place. The Commission is urged to draw up a report to look at ways of agreeing a protocol on this matter with Member States. They say that if this principle is not accepted, the Council and Commission will be " informed " that it will be difficult for Parliament to reach an agreement on the next financial perspective (the EU's multiannual budget framework). A system of this kind is needed, says Parliament, because current supervisory systems and controls cannot guarantee the " legality and regularity of transactions " where Community funds are jointly managed by the Commission and the Member States. The Commission's central controls cannot on their own solve the problem, while Member States do not always manage EU funds with the same care as " national" funds. " What I propose ", said Mr Wynn, " is a simple and clear national declaration of assurance as regards EU funds. I want the current system of control to be further developed into a global disclosure statement per Member State. This goal should be realised sooner rather than later. The financial management in the European Union is, at present, not good enough ." During the debate, Commissioner Siim KALLAS announced that a roadmap aiming at ensuring such improved controls of EU spending by the Member States will be " submitted by July of this year ". Rapporteur Terry Wynn expressed his hopes that " these measures will eventually bear fruit, possibly in time for the 2005 discharge, in two years time ". Better control systems are also needed because the annual Statement of Assurance (DAS) by the Court of Auditors does not assess how effectively EU funds are spent. The DAS says whether the money has been used " regularly and legally " but gives no indication about value for money. Funds could thus be wasted even if they have been used " regularly and legally ". Parliament calls for the Commission's accounting officer to certify the accounts and assume the role of a Chief Financial Officer. Doing so, the accounting officer would be fully answerable, having the means to fulfil this responsibility and perform the necessary checks on transactions. The Commission is urged to include such provisions in the