a directive Article 5 The central liaison offices shall exchange information concerning refunds of taxes, other than value added tax, by the national tax authorities, if those refunds relate to persons established in another Member State and concern amounts exceeding EUR 10 000 . The central liaison offices shall exchange information concerning refunds of taxes, other than value added tax, by the national tax authorities, if those refunds relate to persons established in another Member State. Amendment 4 Proposal for a directive Article 6 – paragraph 2 2. By agreement between the applicant authority and the requested authority and in accordance with the arrangements laid down by the latter, officials authorised by the applicant authority may, with a view to receiving information referred to in Article 4(1) , be present during administrative enquiries carried out in the territory of the requested Member State. 2. By agreement between the applicant authority and the requested authority and in accordance with the arrangements laid down by the latter, officials authorised by the applicant authority may, with a view to receiving information referred to in this Directive , be present during administrative enquiries carried out in the territory of the requested Member State. Where officials of the applicant Member State are present during administrative enquiries pursuant to the first subparagraph, they may exercise the powers of inspection conferred on officials of the requested Member State , on condition that they exercise those powers in accordance with the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of the requested Member State. Where officials of the applicant authority are present during administrative enquiries pursuant to the first subparagraph, they may , where so agreed, exercise the powers of inspection conferred on officials of the requested authority , on condition that they exercise those powers in accordance with the laws, regulations or administrative provisions of the requested authority's Member State. Any refusal of the person under investigation to respect the inspection measures of the officials of the applicant Member State shall be treated by the requested Member State as a refusal committed against its own officials. Where an agreement has been concluded between the applicant authority and the requested authority concerning the inspection powers vested in officials by the requested authority, any refusal of the person under investigation to respect the inspection measures of the officials of the applicant authority shall be treated by the requested authority as a refusal committed against its own officials. Amendment 5 Proposal for a directive Article 8 – paragraph 1 – point b (b) by sending, by registered mail or electronically, a standard form to which the instrument or decision emanating from the applicant Member State is attached; for this standard form, the model set out in Annex I shall be used. (b) by sending, by registered mail or electronically, a standard form to which the instrument or decision emanating from the applicant Member State , or a certified copy thereof, is attached; for this standard form, the model set in the Annex I shall be used. Amendment 6 Proposal for a directive Article 12 –