policy of the European Community OJ C 19, 28.1.1991, pp. 633-637. and of 25 October 2001 on openness and democracy in international trade OJ C not yet published … . , – having regard to the last GATT round (the Uruguay Round) that led to the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and to the revision of Articles VI, XVI and XXIII of GATT, concluding a Code on Subsidies and Countervailing Duties while specifying the procedural and material conditions to be fulfilled before protective measures could be adopted, – having regard to the EC international obligations arising from two GATT/WTO agreements of 1994 on anti-dumping and on anti-subsidy measures, which led to the revision of EC regulations, namely Regulations Nos 384/96/EC on protection against dumped imports OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, pp. 1. and 2026/97/EC on protection against subsidised imports OJ L 288, 21.10.1997, pp. 1. , that form the legal basis of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy investigations in and measures by the European Community (EC), – having regard to the Declaration of the 4th WTO Ministerial Conference held in Doha, Qatar, which, in paragraph 28, provided for negotiations on the reform of the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of GATT 1994 by clarifying and improving disciplines under the Agreement, – having regard to the recent steel dispute between the EU and the United States of America, – having regard to Rule 47 and 163 of its Rules of Procedure , – having regard to the report of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy ( A5‑0323/2002 ), A. whereas unfair trading practices such as dumping and the granting of subsidies were identified as a threat to open markets as early as 1947, when the first General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) was signed, and as potentially harmful to a rules-based multilateral system, B. whereas the evolving structure of the world economy owing to the forces of globalisation (trade, investment, technology and finance), its players (multinational enterprises and conglomerate corporations) and the increasing number of anti-dumping measures taken by new entrants into the world trading system have created a new situation for the conduct of EU anti-dumping policy, C. whereas, while the principle of anti-dumping measures can be contested from a strictly economic standpoint, it has nonetheless served to enable a whole range of countries to embark upon the process of liberalisation, D. whereas in a rules-based multilateral trade system discipline is an essential element without which the rights and obligations of trading partners and fair trade would be seriously circumvented and protectionism encouraged, E. recognising that a strong increase of the use of trade defence instruments in third countries may have led to the increase in trade disputes, with a negative impact on industries in the EU and the third countries, F. whereas dumping of any kind is an unfair trade practice that may have serious effects on the Community industry and that predatory pricing and strategic pricing are effective but injurious forms of dumping - with the former taking the form of lower export prices than domestic