A4-0216/1999 . . By letter of 9 March 2001 the President asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to draft a report examining the resolution adopted by Parliament on 13 December 2000 on reform of budgetary control procedures and institutions (2000/2008 (INI)) ( A5-0383/2000 ), taking particular account of paragraph 18 of the resolution. Paragraph 18 calls for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, following consultation of the Committee on Budgetary Control, to draw up 'proposals for new rules of procedure concerning discharge to all Institutions and bodies' stipulating that the new provisions shall include the following: '- decisions by plenary to grant or postpone discharge shall be taken by an absolute majority of the votes cast, pursuant to Article 198 of the EC Treaty; however, in order to underline the serious political consequences of refusing discharge, such a decision should only be taken by an absolute majority of the Members of Parliament; - following an initial decision to postpone discharge, Parliament shall, by the July part-session at the latest, grant or refuse discharge ; - amendments in plenary proposing the opposite to the proposal of the Committee responsible shall be admissible.' 3. Majority required to refuse discharge (first indent of paragraph 18 of the resolution) Under Article 5(5) of Annex V of the Rules of Procedure a decision on the discharge currently requires only an absolute majority of the votes cast, i.e. a simple majority within the meaning of Article 198 of the EC Treaty. In the past, Article 5(2) of Annex V used to require a majority of Members for the discharge decision. This provision was amended by decision of 4 May 1999 (see above) as it was incompatible with the Treaty in that Article 198 of the EC Treaty requires only an absolute majority of the votes cast (simple majority) save where the Treaty provides otherwise. However, no such provisions are to be found in Article 267 of the EC Treaty. 4. Deadlines when the discharge decision is postponed (second indent of paragraph 18 of the resolution) The current version of the Rules of Procedure does not lay down any deadlines when the discharge is postponed. The deadline for tabling the discharge report is April of the year following the adoption of the Court of Auditors' annual report, i.e. the second year after the financial year concerned (Article 2 of Annex V of the Rules of Procedure, Article 89(1) of the Financial Regulation). No other deadlines are stipulated. Parliament's resolution of 13 December 2000 proposes the July part-session, i.e. only three months after any initial decision to postpone the discharge. Within this very short period it is difficult for the Commission to implement any improvements proposed by Parliament or respond to any criticisms Opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control, p. 4. . A final decision by Parliament at this point appears over-hasty and would be inconsistent with its duty of careful consideration. Consequently, a deadline of the end of October is proposed (new Article 5a of Annex V). This means that the procedure can be wound up before the start