Answer given by Ms Kuneva on behalf of the Commission (12 June 2009) In October 2008 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on Consumer Rights COM(2008)614 final. (‘the proposal’). The proposal aims to ensure a high level of consumer protection across the whole EU by a set of harmonised provisions. This means that the same set of rules concerning contractual rights will apply whether the consumer buys the good in his home country, when he is travelling abroad or from an Internet trader based in another Member State. The proposal is the main outcome of the review of the consumer acquis and the follow up to the Green Paper. The proposal merges four existing directives into one coherent set of rules and pursues the twin objectives of maximising consumer welfare and delivering a high level of protection for consumers. The proposal harmonises certain areas which in practice have shown to be problematic for consumers when purchasing products, including delivery, return of goods and refunds. The proposal contains strict rules on delivery by protecting the consumer against the risk of loss or damage to the goods until he actually takes physical possession of the good. Under the proposal, unless agreed otherwise by the parties, delivery should take place within 30 days from the conclusion of the contract. If the trader fails to fulfil his obligation to deliver, the consumer is entitled to a refund of any sums paid within seven days. Furthermore, the proposal sets out remedies for faulty goods. Firstly, if a good is faulty, the consumer has the right to have it replaced or repaired. If that is not possible, the consumer can ask for a price reduction or rescission of the contract. The Commission has not proposed to introduce a certification system as described by the Honourable Member and has decided not to interfere with the freedom of business to grant commercial guarantees on top of the legal ones. This is a commercial matter which is for business to decide. The Commission has no reasons to believe that traders will stop offering commercial guarantees after adoption of the proposal. The proposal introduces a common ‘cooling off’ period of 14 days both for off-premises and distance contracts. The consumer will be able to withdraw and return the goods to the trader without giving any reason within 14 calendar days, and thereby get his money back.