Mexico and the EU have maintained cooperation relations since the 1970s, as embodied in the signing of the Framework Cooperation Agreement between Mexico and what was then the EEC. These relations were institutionalised and expanded with the Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement (the 'Global Agreement'), signed on 8 December 1997 and in force since 1 October 2000. This agreement consists of three pillars for bilateral cooperation: 1. economic partnership (creation of a free trade area in goods and services); 2. political coordination (institutionalisation of the political dialogue); 3. cooperation (concentrating on priority areas for Mexico's development and securing maximum advantage from the Global Agreement). Thanks to the Global Agreement, the EU and Mexico have increased trade with each other and come closer politically. The political dialogue has been strengthened at all levels. There have been numerous high-level visits in both directions, including the visit of the Mexican President, Felipe Calderón Hinojosa, to the EU institutions and European capitals in 2007 and the meeting of the Mexican foreign minister, Patricia Espinosa, and the EU Commissioner for External Relations and Neighbourhood Policy, Benita Ferrero-Waldner. Other visits of leading EU figures to Mexico include those of: the High Representative for the CFSP and Secretary-General of the Council, Javier Solana; the Commissioner for Trade, Peter Mandelson; the Commissioner for Research and Science, Janez Potočnik; the Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs and Equality, Vladimir Spidla; and the Commission President, José Manuel Barroso. The regular contacts between parliamentarians via the EU-Mexico JPC and EUROLAT have been immensely fruitful and have served to develop the political dialogue at parliamentary level. In this connection, stress has been laid on the desirability of creating a more far-reaching political framework to boost the political dialogue, by means of an effective instrument enabling the coordination of positions, at world level and also in the various multilateral forums and international bodies. The proposed Strategic Partnership will thus be articulated at two levels: coordination between the EU and Mexico at multilateral level; and the further development of bilateral links. Multilaterally, the aim is to instil habits of consultation and coordination, reflecting the common interests of both sides and enabling the adoption of positions on concrete issues of global reach. The main areas of coordination will be in the political, security, environmental and socio-economic fields. Bilaterally, the Strategic Partnership should give a new impetus to bilateral relations, in the context of the political dialogue as well as in other aspects, thus reinforcing the links already in place under the Global Agreement. Conclusion s Mexico's leading position in Latin American and international forums, as well as its participation in the most important multilateral forums and world bodies, offer excellent opportunities for the further development of EU-Mexico relations, especially in terms of coordinating positions and presenting joint initiatives at international level. The proposed Strategic Partnership represents a key step forward and will be vital for the consolidation of the existing relations with Mexico and developing coordination on issues of world importance. It is here explicitly proposed that the new partnership should institutionalise the annual EU-Mexico summits