Question for written answer E-008388/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Mara Bizzotto (EFD) (19 September 2011) Subject: Libya risks becoming ‘Talibanised’ since the fall of Muammar Gaddafi The US Government has confirmed that a group linked to Al-Qaeda, known as the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group (LIFG) took part in the capture of Tripoli in late August. The group in question is led by Adb al-Hakim Belhadj, a former Taliban fighter who was arrested by the CIA in 2003 and later extradited to Libya, where he was sentenced to prison. Strategic analysis institutes say that it is currently impossible to rule out the possibility that the LIFG might have sufficient resources to withstand the leadership of the National Transitional Council, and that it might be able to take control of Tripoli and of Libya itself. The same institutes also point out that Libya still has weapons of mass destruction, including 10 tonnes of mustard gas and nuclear material that could fall into the hands of the jihadist group in question. Furthermore, the abovementioned studies concluded that the entire NATO operation in Libya had significantly underestimated Gaddafi's warnings relating to Al-Qaeda's ability to divert the Libyan rebels' revolt for their own ends, and thus to gradually take control of Libya. Is the Commission aware of these developments? Does it believe that the LIFG has sufficient resources to take control of the other factions in Libya? If so, does it think that in the near future, Libya could become ‘Talibanised’, as Afghanistan did following the withdrawal of Soviet troops? Does it not agree that these developments pose a serious threat to the immediate security of the EU? Furthermore, does the Commission believe that the cooperation on terrorism between the EU and North African countries launched by the Barcelona process is sufficient to counter that threat? Should these measures prove to be insufficient, what further steps will the Commission take to address this new security emergency?