Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (5 January 2009) 1. The Commission would like to make clear that it never confirmed any assessment in the Public consultation report document. For the preparation of the communication, an intense process of consultation was put in place including informal consultations with African officials and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and an Internet consultation as well as high-level political consultations with both African and Chinese leaders. The answers to the informal interviews with the African officials and experts showed that China has a competitive advantage mainly in the infrastructure sector. It has been noted that the offers submitted by Chinese contractors for tenders on infrastructure projects launched in African countries are always cheaper that those submitted by European contractors. Generally, the difference ranges between 25 % and 40 % and it is due mainly to the low cost born by Chinese contractors in employing Chinese staff. There is no comprehensive study available on Chinese involvement in infrastructure projects in all countries. The following studies undertake an evaluation of China's infrastructure activity in some of African countries: ‘China's interest and activity in Africa's Construction and infrastructure sectors’ (by the Centre of Chinese Studies, Stellenbosch University) and the recent World Bank report, ‘Building Bridges: China's growing role as an infrastructure financier for Sub-Saharan Africa’. This sector is obviously subject to further research. 2. Africa's need for infrastructure financing far exceeds available domestic resources and traditional Official Development Assistance (ODA) and Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflows — recent country diagnostics for infrastructure estimate a financing gap of USD 35 billion per year. Against this background, African countries cooperate with traditional and emerging donors, including China, and with the private sector, thus aiming to accelerate infrastructure development and Africa's interconnectivity, and aiming to achieve their growth and poverty reduction objectives. In this respect, it is important to underline that the eligibility clauses of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement concluded between the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and the EU only allow the participation of EU and ACP contractors for works contracts which follow the procurement procedures of the European Development Fund (EDF), thereby excluding not only China but also other third countries (India, Japan, etc.). Only where EDF support is provided through the ACP State's national budget, Chinese contractors may under the rules of the beneficiary country be allowed to participate in the tender procedures which may result from this national budget. This latter form of support is, however, not widely used in infrastructure. 3. In addition to their continued active participation in EDF calls for tenders, the Commission would like to encourage European contractors to develop a proactive role, in partnering with African Governments, assisting country authorities with their role of promoters, identifying suitable financiers (which might include Official Development Assistance grants and/or loans), and being creative in developing their own portfolio of financed projects. In this respect, the EU‑Africa Partnership for Infrastructure, and the Infrastructure Trust Fund as one of its instruments, can be mentioned. 4. Trilateral cooperation is embedded in the EU's approach to working