WRITTEN QUESTION E-4431/05 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (30 November 2005) Subject: The influence of Spain's tax legislation on the high bids by Spanish businesses wishing to take over the State shares in French toll road companies 1. Is the Commission aware that, on 7 November 2005, the French State's shares, valued at approximately EUR 13 billion, in the capital of the listed toll road companies Autoroutes du Sud de la France (ASF) (50.3 % of the company's capital), Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhône (APRR) (70.2 %) and Autoroutes du Nord et de l'Est de la France (Sanef) (74.3 %) were offered for sale to private businesses with the aim of reducing the State debt as a one-off measure? 2. Is the Commission aware that the Spanish undertakings Abertis, Cintra and Sacyr Vallehermoso have displayed a surprisingly strong interest in buying these French State shares and that their bids are estimated to be 15 to 18 % higher than those of other undertakings? 3. Having learned of the bids, is it still possible for the French State, while complying with the rules laid down by the EU, to cancel the sale before the bids are assessed in mid-December 2005 on the grounds that the national motorways should not fall into foreign hands, or, under EU rules, would that be regarded as a violation of the equal opportunities of all undertakings within the EU? 4. What scope is there for the French State to reject the highest foreign bidders on account of social considerations or the nature and extent of the package of services offered by the bidders? 5. Can the Commission confirm that this substantial interest and the high bids by Spanish companies are partly due to Spain's tax legislation, which enables undertakings to write off goodwill which they have paid more quickly than their French or Italian counterparts can? 6. If Spanish businesses enjoy an advantage over foreign competitors due to a tax concession, should this be regarded as concealed State aid? 7. Does the Commission tolerate such State aid, or will it, in view of this situation, intervene and/or draft further rules? Source: Het Financieele Dagblad , 9 November 2005.