terms, the reference period covers 1989-2001. I.3. The directives in brief The importance of the 3LD for this inquiry is paramount. This is clearly illustrated by the mandate itself when it quotes Recital 7 of the Directive, which speaks of " the monitoring of the financial health of insurance undertakings, including their state of solvency, the establishment of adequate technical provisions and the covering of those provisions by matching assets ". Hence, these are the key elements that should form the core of the investigation into the issues of correct transposition and supervision. The 3LD, later complemented and built upon by the 2002 CD, is the basic text governing the single market in life insurance in the EU. The text’s basic tenets are the principles of single authorisation and mutual recognition. The Directive incorporated the main provisions contained in the 1979 1LD (authorisation of life assurance undertakings by a competent authority, constitution of adequate sufficient technical provisions and of a solvency margin) and the 1990 2LD, which allowed life assurance providers to benefit from the freedom to provide services across borders for the first time. The overall approach pervading the 3LD consisted in bringing about a certain degree of harmonisation, which was considered at the time an essential stepping stone to achieving mutual recognition of authorisations and prudential control systems. The Directive thus made it possible to grant a single authorisation valid throughout the Community and enshrined the principle of supervision by the home Member State. The aim was to promote economic efficiency and market integration by permitting insurers to operate throughout the EU via the opening of offices or via the cross-frontier provision of services. This would give consumers a wider choice of insurer and insurance products, providing them at the same time with the knowledge that all insurers would be subject to comparable minimum standards. The investigation into allegations regarding transposition and implementation must assess whether both the letter and the spirit of the Directive were upheld both by transposed UK law and UK regulatory practice. With respect to the principle and methods of financial supervision, the Directive significantly modifies the scope of competence of the supervisory authorities of the home and host Member States. It basically provides that the home Member State’s authorities are responsible for the supervision of the “entire business” of the assurance undertakings whose head office is established in their territory and, accordingly, it curtails the supervisory power of the host Member State’s authorities over EC companies operating within their territory. In order to facilitate the exchange of information necessary for the supervision of undertakings operating in more than one Member State, the Directive introduces various exceptions to the auditor’s duty of secrecy, authorises the exchange of information between competent authorities and imposes on auditors the duty to report facts and decisions that may affect the functioning of the undertaking. A number of provisions are devoted to providing the necessary harmonisation of the financial guarantees of assurance undertakings. Detailed guidelines and principles are given on technical reserves, the covering assets and the methods for their calculation,