Answer given by Ms Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (17 July 2007) In relation to the first question raised by the Honourable Members, it shall be noted that the Commission has no powers to initiate nor to intervene in possible charges brought before a court of justice for incitement to genocide or any other reason. However, as the Commission has already stated, anti-Semitism has no place in Europe, nor should it in any other part of the world. Any statement that attempts to deny, trivialize or minimise crimes against humanity, is to be firmly condemned and rejected. As regards the second question, since the Commission is not a member of the United Nations, it has no powers to raise the issue in this framework, whereas the Member States as members of the United Nations can do so. Concerning initiatives taken, the Commission would like to draw attention to the Commission President's statement regarding Mr Ahmedinejad’s declaration that it was ‘a completely unacceptable statement, of course. We should respect borders and respect the integrity of Israel, and we want Israel to live in peace with its neighbours’, and to the speech by the Commissioner responsible for External relations and European neighbourhood policy of 16 November 2005, wherein she condemned the statements made by Mr Ahmadinejad: ‘a shocking statement, and completely unacceptable’. The Commissioner also echoed the Council conclusions of 7 November 2005 which ‘condemns in the strongest terms the comments in respect of the State of Israel made by President Ahmedinejad. It deplores calls for violence and for the destruction of any state.’ More recently, in the face of the Conference on the Holocaust held in Tehran in December 2006, the Vice-President responsible for Justice, freedom and security expressed publicly his shock and indignation and rejected ‘views which, in utter disregard of historically established facts, constitute an unacceptable affront not only to the victims of that tragedy and their descendants, but also to the whole democratic world’. The Commission will continue to monitor with great vigilance Mr Ahmadinejad's statements and will take appropriate action if and when necessary.