to the importance which Parliament attaches to very small businesses and the craft trades and regrets that such undertakings are hardly mentioned in the Green Paper, which, furthermore, basically places the emphasis on start-ups or high-growth undertakings to the detriment of traditional sectors or family undertakings; 8. Stresses that very small businesses and the craft trades, which account for more than 90% of European undertakings, are a source of both jobs and innovation and therefore make an active contribution to meeting the Lisbon objectives; considers that entrepreneurs of this kind deserve special attention from the Commission, given their importance to the stability of the socio-economic fabric and employment and the considerable risks they are obliged to take to set up and remain in business; 9. Regrets that the Green Paper only partly incorporates the advances made in the European Charter for Small Enterprises; 10. Is nonetheless concerned that the plethora of Commission papers and initiatives on enterprise policy over recent years, combined with inconsistent follow-up, has disenfranchised, rather than further engaging, the SME community from the policy making process; 11. Calls on the Commission to ensure that the ‘Green Paper on entrepreneurship’ does not suffer the same fate as the ‘White Paper on trade’; 12. Applauds the Commission for the length and thoroughness of its public consultation during and after the drafting of the Green Paper and highlights the constructive response received from a wide variety of stakeholders, both quantitatively and qualitatively; 13. Calls for an in-depth debate on the replies received during the public discussion to the ten questions referred to in the Green Paper and expects a concluding final report on the subject; 14. Encourages the Commission to maintain this open and consultative approach during the drafting of the Action Plan in order to benefit from the valuable input of the SME community and other stakeholders; 15. Urges the European Union and the Member States, in the interests of preserving their potential for innovative jobs and on securing their international competitiveness and their economic future, to boost their support for entrepreneurship and business activity with particular emphasis on encouraging female entrepreneurs and potential entrepreneurs in disadvantaged areas; 16. Calls on the Council and the Member States to take whatever initiatives are necessary finally to put an end to old-fashioned attitudes which insist on attributing guilt to entrepreneurial activity and demonising business profit; 17. Recommends therefore that the Action Plan stipulates concrete actions within a binding time-frame, clearly identifies the policy levels at which responsibility for their delivery lies and describes measures that will be taken to monitor implementation; 18. Calls like the Council for a coordinated approach, involving all political decision-makers at European, national and regional level, to remove obstacles to the development and growth of businesses, achieve a balance between the risks and rewards of entrepreneurship and promote the spirit of enterprise in society; 19. Urges the Member States to make more intensive use than hitherto of the numerous positive examples from other Member States for their own programme for the promotion of entrepreneurship; 20. Is of the opinion