meeting of 3 September 2001. The committee considered the Commission proposal and draft report at its meetings of 10 July12 and 27 November 2001. At the last meeting it adopted the draft legislative resolution by 14 votes to 1, with 1 abstention and decided to apply the procedure without debate under Rule 114(1). The following were present for the vote: Daniel Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, chairman; Rosa Miguélez Ramos vice-chairman; Arlindo Cunha, rapporteur; Elspeth Attwooll, Glyn Ford (for Carlos Lage), Carmen Fraga Estévez, Pat the Cope Gallagher, Ian Stewart Hudghton, Salvador Jové Peres (for Mihail Papayannakis), Heinz Kindermann, Brigitte Langenhagen, John Joseph McCartin (for Hugues Martin), Patricia McKenna, Fernando Pérez Royo (for Vincenzo Lavarra), Struan Stevenson (for James Nicholson), and Catherine Stihler. The opinions of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Development and Cooperation are attached. The report was tabled on 27 November 2001. The deadline for tabling amendments will be indicated in the draft agenda for the relevant part-session. LEGISLATIVE PROPOSAL Proposal for a Council regulation concerning the conclusion of the Protocol establishing the fishing opportunities and the financial compensation provided for in the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau on fishing off the coast of Guinea-Bissau for the period 16 June 2001 to 15 June 2006 ( COM(2001) 530 – C5‑0566/2001 – 2001/0240(CNS)) The proposal is amended as follows: Text proposed by the Commission OJ not yet published. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 2a (new) 2a Whereas it is important to improve the information supplied to the European Parliament and whereas the Commission should draw up a yearly report on the state of implementation of the Agreement; Justification To underline the importance of providing adequate information on a regular basis to the European Parliament to enable it to carry out its duties in conformity with the consultation procedure. Amendment 2 Article 3a (new) 3a During the final year of the Protocol’s validity and before any agreement on the renewal thereof is concluded, the Commission shall submit to Parliament and the Council a report on the application of the Agreement and the conditions under which it was implemented. This report also includes a cost benefit analysis. Justification Since recently the Commission has begun to draft evaluation reports on the application of fisheries agreements. Until now, however, these reports don't contain any cost-benefit analysis. In the light of critical remarks recently made by the Court of Auditors on the international fisheries agreements such analysis establishes important information for the Parliament to judge the implementation of fisheries agreements and to use the conclusions for the benefit of future agreements. Amendment 3 Article 3b (new) 3b On the basis of such a report and following consultation of the European Parliament the Council shall grant, where appropriate, the Commission a negotiating mandate with a view to the adoption of a new protocol. Justification Only on the basis of the evaluation report on the implementation of the fisheries agreement the European Parliament and the Council are able to carry out their respective duties. Amendment 4 Article 3c