in Article 27(2a). On imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission may have recourse to the urgency procedure referred to in Article 27(2b). (6) Article 7 shall be amended as follows: a) in paragraph 3, the first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: The first set of draft CSTs shall be based on an examination of existing targets and safety performance in the Member States and shall ensure that the current safety performance of the rail system is not reduced in any Member State. They shall be adopted by the Commission before 30 April 2009 and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. ▌ The second set of draft CSTs shall be based on the experience gained from the first set of CSTs and their implementation. They shall reflect any priority areas where safety needs to be further improved. They shall be adopted by the Commission before 30 April 2011 and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The measures designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive , inter alia by supplementing it with new elements , relating to the first and second draft CSTs shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory ║ procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 27(2a). On imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission may have recourse to the urgency procedure referred to in Article 27(2b). " ; b) in paragraph 3, the following subparagraph shall be added: "Before drafting or revising CSTs, a cost-benefit analysis must demonstrate that the expected effect of the development of CSTs shall improve the level of transport safety and the optimum use of the railway system. c) paragraph 5 shall be replaced by the following: 5. The CSTs shall be revised at regular intervals, taking into account the global development of railway safety. The measures designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive, inter alia by supplementing it with new elements , relating to the implementation of this paragraph shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory ║ procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 27(2a). On imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission may have recourse to the urgency procedure referred to in Article 27(2b). (7) Article 10 shall be amended as follows: a) in paragraph 1, the second subparagraph shall be replaced by the following: The purpose of the safety certificate is to provide evidence that the railway undertaking has established its safety management system and can meet requirements laid down in TSIs and other relevant Community legislation and in national safety rules in order to control risks and provide transport services on the network under a high level of safety. b) in paragraph 2, point (b) shall be replaced by the following: (b) certification confirming acceptance of the provisions adopted by the railway undertaking to meet specific requirements necessary for the supply of its services on the relevant network under a high level of safety. These requirements may concern the application of the TSIs and national safety rules, including the network operating rules, acceptance of staff certificates and