targets for risk reduction, instead of use reduction targets. Reduction of risks shall be measured using the risk indicators as provided for in Article 15 and Member States opting for risk reduction shall select a year of reference from the period 1995-2005. National action plans shall include integrated pest management as referred to in Article 14, priority being assigned to non-chemical crop protection measures and encouragement provided to farmers who opt to use non-chemical crop protection products. 3. The baseline year shall be the average use and risks in the last three calendar years 'January through December' before the entry into force of this Directive. 4. When drawing up and revising their national action plans, Member States shall give due consideration to the public health, social, economic and environmental impacts of the measures envisaged , to specific national, regional and local conditions and to all relevant stakeholder groups . Minimum requirements for the national action plans are listed in the guidance document in Annex IV . The national action plans shall comprise, if necessary, information on the aspects listed in Articles 5 to 14. They shall take into account plans under other Community legislation on the use of pesticides, such as planned measures under Directive 2000/60/EC. The measures contained in the national action plans may, in particular, be of a legislative, taxation or voluntary nature and should be based on the findings of relevant risk assessments. Member States shall establish a mechanism for financing the introduction of the national action plans. 5 . Not later than ... * Three years after the entry into force of this Directive. , Member States shall communicate their national action plans to the Commission and to the other Member States. The national action plans shall be reviewed at least every three years and , depending on the attainment of objectives, updated. Monitoring shall also include an analysis of whether the risks in the action plan are appropriately taken into account or if they need to be reassessed. Any changes to the national action plans and the essential findings of the monitoring shall be reported to the Commission without undue delay. Member States shall make the information reported under this paragraph available to the public on a website. The Commission shall make the information communicated in accordance with this paragraph available to third countries and to the public . 6. The Commission shall draw up every two years a report presenting the results of implementing the national action plans. The Commission shall establish an Internet portal to inform the public about the national action plans, any changes and the essential results of their implementation. 7 . The provisions on public participation as laid down in Article 2 of Directive 2003/35/EC shall apply to the preparation and the modification of the national action plans. 8. Member States shall step up their efforts to monitor and prevent illegal use of pesticides, in collaboration with the relevant stakeholders. Member States shall report on a regular basis on controls in place regarding illegal use. Chapter II Training, Awareness programmes, and Sales