in Community election observation missions. 24. The Commission shall keep Parliament fully informed of the progress of accession negotiations and in particular on major aspects and developments, so as to enable it to express its views in good time through the appropriate parliamentary procedures. 25. When Parliament adopts a recommendation on matters referred to in point 24, pursuant to Rule 82 of its Rules of Procedure, and when, for important reasons, the Commission decides that it cannot support such a recommendation, it shall explain the reasons before Parliament, at a plenary sitting or at the next meeting of the relevant parliamentary committee. (iii) Budgetary implementation 26. In connection with the annual discharge governed by Article 276 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Commission shall forward all information necessary for supervising the implementation of the budget for the year in question, which the chairperson of the parliamentary committee responsible for the discharge procedure pursuant to Annex VI of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure requests from it for that purpose. If new aspects come to light concerning previous years for which discharge has already been given, the Commission shall forward all the necessary information on the matter with a view to arriving at a solution which is acceptable to both sides. IV. COOPERATION AS REGARDS LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES AND PLANNING (i) Commission political and legislative programmes and the European Union's multi-annual programming 27. The Commission shall present proposals for the European Union’s multi-annual programming, with a view to achieving consensus on inter-institutional programming between the Institutions concerned. 28. An incoming Commission shall present, as soon as possible, its political and legislative programme. 29. When the Commission prepares its legislative and work programme, the two Institutions shall cooperate in accordance with the timetable set out in Annex 2. The Commission shall take into account the priorities expressed by Parliament. The Commission shall provide sufficient detail as to what is envisaged under each point in the legislative and work programme. 30. The Vice-President of the Commission responsible for inter-institutional relations undertakes to report to the Conference of Committee Chairs every three months, outlining the political implementation of the legislative and work programme for the year in question and any updating rendered necessary by topical and important political events. (ii) General legislative procedures 31. The Commission undertakes to carefully examine amendments to its legislative proposals adopted by Parliament, with a view to taking them into account in any amended proposal. When delivering its opinion on Parliament’s amendments under Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Commission undertakes to take the utmost account of amendments adopted at second reading; should it decide, for important reasons and after consideration by the College, not to adopt or support such amendments, it shall explain its decision before Parliament, and in any event in its opinion on Parliament’s amendments by virtue of point (c) of the third subparagraph of Article 251(2). 32. The Commission shall give Parliament and the Council prior notification before withdrawing its proposals. 33. For legislative procedures not entailing codecision, the Commission: (i) shall ensure