be forwarded to the Council and the European Parliament. Amendment 187 Article 61, paragraph 1 1. Every reference in Community legislation to the Scientific Committee on Food, the Scientific Committee on Animal Nutrition, the Scientific Veterinary Committee, the Scientific Committee on Pesticides, the Scientific Committee on Plants and the Scientific Steering Committee shall be replaced by a reference to the European Food Authority. 1. Reference in Community legislation to the Scientific Committee on Food, the Scientific Committee on Animal Nutrition, the Scientific Veterinary Committee, the Scientific Committee on Pesticides, the Scientific Committee on Plants and the Scientific Steering Committee shall be replaced by a reference, where appropriate, to the European Food Authority. Amendment 188 Article 63 The seat of the Authority shall be decided by the competent authorities, on the basis of a proposal of the Commission. The seat of the Authority shall be decided by the Council, after consulting the Commission and the European Parliament. It shall be, and be seen physically to be , independent of the Commission and other institutions. The location of the Authority shall: - have a long-standing tradition in food safety in order to lend credibility to the Authority in the eyes of the citizens of the European Union; - enhance the Authority's independence and integrity; - provide good scientific infrastructure and facilities in the field of food safety; - be easily accessible in terms of communications, centrally located, and have good and rapid transport connections; - enable the Authority to work closely and efficiently with those Commission services which deal with public health and consumer protection; - be cost-effective and enable the Authority to start its work immediately; - provide for the necessary social infrastructure for the staff of the Authority. Amendment 189 Article 64 Existing food law shall continue to apply until amended to ensure conformity with the provisions laid down in Chapters I and II. To the extent necessary, existing food law shall be amended to ensure conformity with the provisions laid down in Chapters I and II. European Parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Authority, and laying down procedures in matters of food safety ( COM(2000) 716 - C5-0655/2000 - 2000/0286(COD) ) (Codecision procedure: first reading) The European Parliament, - having regard to the Commission proposal to the European Parliament and the Council and the amendments to the proposal ( COM(2000) 716 ) OJ C 96 E, 27.3.2001, p. 247. , - having regard to Articles 251(2), 37, 95, 133 and 152(4) of the EC Treaty, pursuant to which the Commission submitted the proposal to Parliament ( C5-0655/2000 ), - having regard to Rule 67 of its Rules of Procedure, - having regard to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the opinions of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, the Committee on