of Fundamental Rights of the European Union as general principles of Community law, Justification The European Parliament stresses in particular that all fundamental rights and principles recognised by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union must be reflected as general principles of Community law in the Research Fund as elsewhere. Amendment 11 Article 1 The multiannual financial guidelines for managing the assets of the "ECSC in liquidation" and, after the liquidation, the "Assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund", hereinafter called "financial guidelines", are set out in the Annex. The multiannual financial guidelines for managing the assets of the "ECSC in liquidation" and, after the liquidation, the "Assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund", hereinafter called "financial guidelines", shall be adopted under the co-decision procedure, in accordance with Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. The multiannual guidelines are set out in the Annex. Justification It is hard to see how the Parliament could give discharge to the Coal and Steel Research Fund if it has no say on its financial management. The only way to correct this anomaly would be to bring the current legislative act under the co-decision procedure, whereby the Parliament would decide on its multiannual guidelines on equal terms with the Council. Amendment 12 Article 2 If need be, the financial guidelines shall be reviewed or supplemented every five years , commencing from 1 January 2008 . To this end, and at the latest in the first semester of the last year of each five-year period, the Commission shall reassess the operation and effectiveness of the financial guidelines and shall propose any appropriate amendments. If it sees fit, the Commission may carry out such reassessment and shall propose any appropriate amendments before the expiry of the five-year period . The Commission shall clarify the role of the Coal and Steel Expert Group in the financial management of the Fund so that it complies with the principles of commitology. If need be, the financial guidelines shall be reviewed or supplemented every two years , commencing from 1 January 2004 . To this end, the Commission shall reassess the operation and effectiveness of the financial guidelines and shall propose any appropriate amendments. If it sees fit, the Commission may carry out such reassessment and shall propose any appropriate amendments before the end of the financial year . Justification According to the proposal, the Coal and Steel Expert Group would give its opinion on the allocation of funds. The Commission's Treasury Management Committee would have the final say on the financial management of ECSC assets. The rapporteur considers that this would be in contradiction with Article 272 of the EC Treaty and the principles of commitology. The role of the Expert Group in the allocation of funds should be clearly defined in order to ensure the visibility and transparency of the activities financed. The rapporteur suggests that the financial guidelines should be revised or complemented on an annual basis. In exceptional cases, such as financial crises, this revision should take place on the spot to