Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (23 June 2011) In 2006 the Commission adopted an EU strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol-related harm. One of the five priority themes identified in this EU alcohol strategy is to inform, educate and raise awareness on the impact of harmful and hazardous alcohol consumption. The current strategy is running until the end of 2012. A progress report on the implementation of the EU alcohol strategy was presented in September 2009 http://ec.europa.eu/health/archive/ph_determinants/life_style/alcohol/documents/alcohol_progress.pdf . The Commission is not itself directly informing EU citizens and raising awareness on the health effects of alcohol. The Commission has fostered discussions on messages and media to raise awareness on the health effects of alcohol within the Committee on National Alcohol Policy and Action and the European Alcohol and Health Forum — two structures to support the implementation of the EU alcohol strategy. Under the EU Health programme the Commission is also supporting relevant initiatives, such as a project on alcohol labelling policies to protect young people (PROTECT) http://protect-project.eu/ . Furthermore, since 1987, the European Code against Cancer has addressed the issue of alcohol consumption through its recommendation to citizens on this subject http://www.cancercode.org/code.htm . Finally, the European Partnership for Action against Cancer is promoting and disseminating the prevention messages during the European Week against Cancer (25-31 May 2011), including the recommendation to moderate alcohol consumption as a means to prevent certain types of cancer. The intention is to launch an external evaluation of the EU alcohol strategy in 2011. The Commission's reply that ‘the idea that a single uniform approach would be beneficial for EU citizens did not emerge from these debates’ (in the European Alcohol and Health Forum) was based on the fact that a common understanding of what messages should be communicated and what are the most appropriate media to employ, has not developed so far. Currently the Commission is not considering a regulatory approach to introduce health warning messages on alcoholic beverages. Member States can however introduce health warning messages on alcoholic beverage. If they wish to legislate they have to comply with the procedure laid down in Article 19 of Directive 2000/13/EC of 20 March 2000 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs. This special notification procedure requires Member States to notify the Commission and other Member States of draft envisaged measures, as well as the reasons justifying them. The Commission shall then verify, on a case-by-case basis, that the draft national measure is necessary to achieve one of the objectives mentioned in Article 19, such as protection of public health, and does not create disproportionate barriers to the free movement of goods.