a representative of the next Presidency. Amendment 18 Article 8 1. The Governing Board shall set up a Scientific Committee, made up of experts who are recognised at European level for their knowledge and practical experience of judicial training. 2. The Scientific Committee shall be consulted when the programme of activities referred to in Article 4 is being drawn up . 1. The Governing Board shall set up a Scientific Committee, made up of experts who are recognised at European level for their knowledge and practical experience of judicial training. 2. The Scientific Committee shall draw up the programme of activities referred to in Article 4. Amendment 19 Article 9, paragraph 1 1. After having sought proposals from Network members, the Secretary-General shall draw up the draft programme of activities. 1. The Secretary-General shall put the programme of activities to the Governing Board on the basis of the draft prepared by the Scientific Committee . Amendment 20 Article 9, paragraph 5 a (new) 5a. Representatives of the Council of Europe may be invited to attend meetings of the Scientific Committee. Amendment 21 Article 10, paragraph 1 1. The Secretary-General shall draw up the draft rules of procedure, which shall be adopted unanimously by the members of the Network. If, pursuant to Article 2(2), a Member State has designated several training officers to represent it, that State shall nevertheless have only one vote. 1. The Secretary-General shall draw up the draft rules of procedure, which shall be adopted by a qualified majority of two thirds of the members of the Network. Pursuant to Article 2(2), each Member State shall have only one vote. Amendment 22 Article 12 The Members of the Network may continue to apply for funding from the relevant European institutions. However, they shall be obliged to inform the Secretary-General of the Network of these applications for funding , and give details of the training activities for which these applications have been lodged. The Members of the Network may continue to apply for funding from the relevant European institutions. The Secretary-General of the Network shall be informed of these applications for funding and of the training activities for which these applications have been lodged. Amendment 23 Article 13, paragraph 2 2. The report referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made available on the electronic information exchange system referred to in Article 6, as well as on the world-wide-web sites of the Commission and of the Network. The report shall be forwarded to the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council and the Economic and Social Committee. 2. The report referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made available on the electronic information exchange system referred to in Article 6, as well as on the world-wide-web sites of the Commission and of the Network. The report shall be forwarded to the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council , the Economic and Social Committee and the Council of Europe .