have been properly recorded, legally and regularly executed and managed so as to ensure economy, efficiency and effectiveness. The horizontal amendments were based on the problems and weaknesses identified in the special reports examined during the 2004 discharge exercise and those released since. The Commission's replies to the observations of the Court are included in each report. The Commission's 2004 follow-up report, responding to the remarks made by the European Parliament in the 2004 discharge report, arrived after the submission of these amendments. · Synthesis reports of the Commission's management of financial resources 4. The annual synthesis report contains a summary and overview of the state of management in the Commission based on the Annual Activities Reports (AAR) prepared by the various D-Gs. Each AAR contains a declaration of assurance signed by the director-general concerning the sound financial management and control of the resources for which they are responsible, and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. Particular problems, for which it is not proved possible to give such assurances, are subject to reservations. The AAR sets out the action planned by the Commission to address such weaknesses. · Cost-benefit studies 5. Cost-benefit studies were carried out on behalf of the committee on budgets in the context of the 2007 budget procedure, further to paragraph 36 of Parliament's resolution on the Commission's APS resolution, which "proposes to ask for cost-benefit studies to be carried out on specific areas of the budget using part of the resources allocated to the parliamentary committees ". Amendments were proposed based on an analysis of the studies on: LIFE; Lifelong learning; Citizenship; Information Policy; Development co-operation. · Budget Forecast Alert 6. The Budget Forecast Alert is a new tool prepared by the Commission to assess the quality of implementation and therefore qualitative value for money for particular areas of EU spending. The rapporteur has made use of this information to propose amendments on 7 budget lines on which implementation rates appear unsatisfactory. 7. For each of these sets of amendments, the rapporteur proposes to place 30% of the relevant commitment and payment appropriations in reserve for the related budget lines, pending information and improvements regarding the problems identified. II - Suggested process for scrutinising Commission responses and releasing funds 8. In line with the approach set out above, the rapporteur has placed amounts in reserve on a number of lines in order to clarify whether spending in these areas is delivering effective qualitative and quantitative value for money. The rapporteur proposes that the amounts in reserve should be released in the following way: (i) The Commission should provide a response, including a calendar for redressing problems wherever necessary, for each of the problems identified; (ii) A COBU hearing, possibly held jointly with COCOBU, would allow the Commission to present publicly the information relating to the release of the reserve. In light of the timetable for the second reading, this meeting should take place at the latest on the afternoon of 16 November. (iii) On the basis of its assessment of the information provided by the Commission,