in Iran,which killed at least 42 people, – having regard to UNGA Resolution 62/191 of 18 December 2008 on a moratorium on the use of the death penalty, – having regard to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which Iran is a party, – having regard to Rule 122(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the general human rights situation in Iran has continued to deteriorate,even more so since the presidential elections of June 2009, B. whereas Iran is the country with the highest number of executions after China, the numbers having increased fourfold since President Ahmedinejad came to power in 2005, and whereas it holds the sad distinction of being the only country in the world still to execute juvenile offenders; whereas at least 140 child offenders are on death row in Iran, according to reports by human rights lawyers, C. whereas on 11 October 2009 Behnoud Shojaee was hanged despite strong national and international pleas to spare his life, beingthe third juvenile offender to be executedin the Islamic Republic of Iran since the beginning of 2009 after Delara Darabi and Molla Gol Hassan, and whereas the juvenile offenders Safar Angooti and Abbas Hosseini face imminent risk of execution, D. whereas the torture and ill-treatment of prisoners, sleep deprivation, solitary confinement, clandestine detention, the application of cruel, inhuman and degrading punishment and impunity for state agents all continue to be widespread, E. whereas the violent repression ofpolitical opponents, human rights activists, journalists, bloggers, teachers, intellectuals, academics, gay people, women, students, trade unionists and members of religious, ethnic and language minorities has increased, F. whereas seven leaders of the Baha'i faith continue to be imprisoned, being held solely on the basis of their religious beliefs, G. whereas on 4 August 2009 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad received formal endorsement for a second term of office, having been declared the winner of the 12 June elections, while his election rivals Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karrubi, as well as numerous observers, accused the authorities of large-scale falsification of the election results, H. whereas in the following weeks and months tens of thousands of protesters took to the streets; whereas some 150 people died and more than a thousand demonstrators were arrested, I. whereas mass trials continue for reportedly 140 opposition supporters, including prominent reformers, and activists accused of offences ranging from rioting to spying and seeking to topple Iran's rulers, J. whereas four individuals have been sentenced to death in connection with the protests despite being imprisoned since April, long before the post-election demonstration, K. whereas according to reports by human rights organisations, dozens of reporters, photographers and bloggers have left Iran or are trying to flee the country, thousands have lost their jobs, numerous newspapers have been closed down by the authorities in recent weeks, and 19 journalists and five bloggers are reportedly still being held by the Iranian authorities,