Mr BAIN. Mr WEIR stressed that " to my personal knowledge, everyone [who instructed lawyers or launched claims] was settled in full before their case ever got to court ". " In other words, Equitable Life was well aware that it would lose in open court and that it would open the floodgates to more claims " (Mr WEIR, H2). Likewise, Mr LAKE (H1) stated that cases were always settled at the cost of " gagging agreements which prohibit any wider discussions of the terms of the settlement " (Mr LAKE, H1). Mr SCAWEN confirmed this, stating that " t o the best of my knowledge all of these cases have been settled out of court, prior to trial under very strict confidentiality clauses " (WE 23/2 Page 5. ). Another policyholder put it the following way: " T he point about all ... cases is that they were never heard by the court because they were always settled in full the day before with a confidentiality agreement. Once a 'reasonable offer' has been made, the court would not allow the plaintiff to have their day in court and could even award costs against them. So it is very hard to see the truth. Equitable’s strategy has been to scare away potential litigants by threatening to run up high legal costs which they would have to pay if they lost. Secondly, they would never allow a case to get into court because they know they would lose and that would encourage others to launch a claim as well as forcing disclosure of evidence they would prefer did not come into public view " (WE-CONF- 12). Mr THOMSON merely stated before the committee that " a number of cases have been pursued through the UK courts " and that "in all of those cases, appropriate compensation has been paid... " (H8). Thus, the committee lacks information about the exact number of cases initiated by policyholders against ELAS in the past. Evidence seems to suggest that there has not been any judgement because cases were usually settled out-of-court under confidentiality clauses. As regards ongoing cases, the committee was made aware by Mr SCAWEN (H3) that a group of with-profits annuitants is currently pursuing claims against the Society. He explained that the group has developed a mechanism by which the claimants " mutually insure " each other if one or more of the cases failed and that the claim was only made possible by a law firm which was willing to take on the case on a 'no win, no fee' basis. In addition, the committee was informed that one Irish policyholder has commenced litigation and that another case is said to be pending before a German court (see below). In summary, the launch of court proceedings against ELAS under Section 62 of the Financial Services Act 1986 or for misrepresentation or for negligent advice was, in theory, a possible route for aggrieved policyholders to obtain redress. In practice, however, circumstantial evidence suggests that only few affluent policyholders took this route and consequently reached settlements