WRITTEN QUESTION E-5750/06 by András Gyürk (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (9 January 2007) Subject: Cases forwarded to the Commission by the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions Among the thousands of petitions which reach the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions each year, the Committee selects those which fall within the fields of competence of the European Union and declares them admissible; under Rule 192 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Committee may then ask the Commission to investigate these cases more thoroughly and assess them in the light of the relevant Community legal provisions. As there is no official deadline for reply, it is regrettably often necessary to wait for years before the substantive reply arrives. However, many of the cases which are referred to the Committee on Petitions reveal residents of the European Union to be victims of detrimental treatment which arises either from failure to apply Community law at all or from failure to apply it correctly. In these cases, the delay in replying and the fact that the individuals concerned are left in uncertainty for a long time — apart from being unworthy of the ideals of the European Union — in some cases makes it impossible to remedy matters in time. For example, the Committee on Petitions forwarded the petition by Hungarian fire-fighters (852/2005) to the Commission on 26 January 2006, but unfortunately the Commission's reply has yet to arrive. Yet in general terms the problem raised in the petition concerns a violation of Community law. The present situation of Hungarian fire-fighters calls into question the consistency between Directive 2003/88/EC OJ L 299, 18.11.2003, p. 9. concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time and the relevant Hungarian legislation. When does the Commission expect to be able to provide information about the mutual consistency of the relevant Community and Hungarian law? Does the Commission intend to investigate whether the circumstances would justify bringing infringement proceedings?