the competent authorities designated for the purpose by the Member States with confirmation that the work has been carried out for each of the research projects in respect of which they have signed a hosting agreement pursuant to Article 5. Amendment 14 Article 4, paragraph 9 9. A Member State may refuse to renew or decide to withdraw the approval of a research organisation which no longer meets the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 to 7 or which has signed a hosting agreement with a third-country national in respect of whom the Member State has applied Article 8(1). Where approval has been refused or withdrawn or where it has not been renewed on the basis of Article 8(1), the organisation concerned may not reapply for approval before five years from the date of publication of the decision on withdrawal or non-renewal. 9. A Member State may refuse to renew or decide to withdraw the approval of a research organisation which no longer meets the conditions laid down in paragraphs 2 to 7 or which has signed a hosting agreement with a third-country national in respect of whom the Member State has applied Article 8(1). Where approval has been refused or withdrawn or where it has not been renewed on the basis of Article 8(1), the organisation concerned may not reapply for approval before five years from the date of publication of the decision on withdrawal or non-renewal. Research organisations shall not be held responsible for violations of the conditions specified in Article 6(a) and (d) unless there are grounds for suspecting that they colluded in the commission by the researcher of unlawful acts. Amendment 16 Article 7 Member States shall issue a residence permit for one year or more and shall renew it annually if the conditions laid down in Articles 5 and 6 are still met. If the research project is scheduled to last less than one year, the residence permit shall be issued for the duration of the project. Member States shall issue a residence permit for the duration of the hosting agreement. This period may be extended by 30 days at the request of the person concerned. Amendment 17 Article 7 a (new) Article 7 a Family members 1. Member States shall authorise the entry and residence of family members of the researcher. 2. 'Family members' shall be understood as meaning: (a) the spouse; (b) the partner with whom the third-country researcher has contracted a registered partnership, if the legislation of the host Member State treats registered partnerships as equivalent to marriage and in accordance with the conditions laid down in the relevant legislation of the host Member State; (c) the direct descendants who are under the age of 21 or are dependants and those of the spouse or partner as referred to in point (b); (d) the direct dependent relatives in the ascending line and those of the spouse or partner as referred to in point (b); The host Member State shall be free to apply more favourable conditions. Amendment 18 Article 8 paragraph 2 2. Member