On 27 June 2001 the new board of directors heard Chief Executive Charles Thomson’s view of the level of surplus he would have expected at the end of 1999. Thomson commented that at the beginning of 2000, the excess of policy values over the value of assets was approximately 3%, which would have been within the acceptable range. In response to a question, Thomson confirmed that under normal actuarial principles he would have expected there however to have been an excess in the value of assets over policy values of perhaps 6-7% at that time. At the beginning of 2000 the Society was short of assets (or had voted excessive bonuses) of about 10% (3%+7%) or £2½ billion. The loss of the GAR case in July 2000 increased this shortage to £4 billion. This was approximately the amount recovered by the 16% cut of policy values on 16th July 2001. " As outlined in WE 8, policyholders may, depending on personal circumstances, also have incurred supplementary costs, such as penalties for early withdrawals, legal costs or reinvestment expenses, in addition to damages they have suffered as a consequence of cuts in policy values or annuity payments. 3. Individual losses The committee received numerous written representations from policyholders, which illustrate their personal losses See, for instance, WE-FILE 1, WE-FILE 2, WE-FILE 3, WE-FILE 4, WE-FILE 5, WE-FILE 6, WE-FILE 7, WE-FILE 8, WE-FILE 9, WE-FILE 11, WE-FILE 12, WE-FILE 13, WE-FILE 14, WE-FILE 15, WE-FILE 16, WE-FILE 19, WE-FILE 20, WE-FILE 33, WE-CONF 3, WE-CONF 19. as a result of reductions in incomes or policy value. Moreover, several witnesses referred to personal losses (Mr WEIR, H2; Ms KNOWD, H2; Mr SCAWEN, H3) or illustrated 'typical cases' (Mr WEYER and Mr SCAWEN, H3) in their oral testimonies before the committee. For instance, Mr SCAWEN representing ELAS annuitants indicates that " my loss of income both to date and in the future is enormous. For many annuitants, where their only source of income is from the Society, their future standard of living has to decline and in many cases they will be seeking financial support from their families or social security, or be forced to sell their homes in order to subsist. These people prudently set aside money from their earnings to provide themselves with a comfortable lifestyle during their retirement, a lifestyle that has been stolen from them by the Society " (WE 23 Page 10. ). While it is clear that the individual losses differ considerably, depending on the class of policy, acceptance or not of the compromise agreement and other individual circumstances, the evidence obtained by the committee confirms the view of Lord PENROSE, who states in his report that " it is clear that many Equitable policyholders have suffered and will continue to experience real financial hardship as a result of seeing the returns they had expected from their savings very dramatically reduced " (WE 16) Page 745. . Some witnesses also emphasised the worry and distress they have suffered in addition to their financial losses. " I can tell you