Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (16 August 2011) 1. In the EU Framework for National Roma Integration Strategies up to 2020 COM(2011)173 final of 5. 4.2011. , the Commission proposes that national Roma integration strategies are designed, or where they already exist, are adapted to meet EU Roma integration goals, with targeted actions and sufficient funding attached to them. These EU Roma integration goals cover, in addition to employment, education and healthcare, housing, too. Member States are expected to send their national strategies to the Commission by the end of 2011. The Commission will assess these strategies and report back to the Parliament and to the Council on its assessment in spring 2012. The implementation and success of national Roma integration strategies will very much depend on an effective and sufficient allocation of funding to national strategies. The Commission recalls that the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) regulation programming had been modified in order to allow Member States and regions to invest in housing integrated approaches in rural and urban areas and in favour of marginalised communities. 2. National strategies are expected to include a strong monitoring method to evaluate the impact of Roma integration actions — in all four crucial areas, including housing. Moreover the EU Framework also puts in place a robust monitoring system, made up of several components. In particular, it will build on the Roma household survey carried out by the United Nations Development Programme in cooperation the Fundamental Rights Agency and the World Bank. The Commission will report annually to the Parliament and to the Council on progress on the integration of Roma population in Member States and on the achievement of the goals. Last but not least, the Platform for Roma Inclusion will also provide the Commission with feedback on the results of national efforts on the ground through the voice of Roma civil society. 3. In its annual reports on progress to the Parliament and to the Council the Commission will address any lack of strong and proportionate measures it perceives should it be deemed appropriate.