in paragraph 1 of this Article having the aim of evading payment of taxes in the amount not exceeding 10 MSLs shall be considered to have committed a misdemeanour and shall be punished by community service or by a fine or by restriction of liberty. 3. A legal entity shall also be held liable for the acts provided for in this Article. Article 205. Misleading Declaration about the Activities of a Legal Entity 1. A person who, on behalf of a legal entity, presents in an official report or in an application misleading data concerning the activities or assets of the legal entity and thereby misleads a government institution, international public organisation, creditor, member of the legal entity or another person who suffers major property damage as a result thereof shall be punished by deprivation of the right to be employed in a certain position or to engage in a certain type of activities or by restriction of liberty or by arrest or by imprisonment for a term of up to two years. 2. A legal entity shall also be held liable for an act provided for in this Article . III. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS AND JUSTIFICATION FOR THE PROPOSED DECISION As far as the applicability of Article 8 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union is concerned, it should be noted that the charges brought against Mr Uspaskich do not relate to opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of his duties as a Member of the European Parliament. As for Article 9 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Union, given that the charges brought against Mr Uspaskich refer to facts committed in Lithuania, whose citizenship he had at the material time, the only applicable part is the provision that " during the sessions of the European Parliament its Members shall enjoy: a) in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliament ". The scope of parliamentary immunity in Lithuania is very similar to the immunity which Members of the European Parliament enjoy in the territory of a Member State other than their own by virtue of Article 9 of the Protocol, as can been seen from Article 62 (1) of the Lithuanian Constitution (reproduced above). Following its established practice, the European Parliament may decide not to waive the immunity of one of its Members if a suspicion exists that the prosecution was based on an intention to prejudice the Member’s political activities. However, in this case no evidence of fumus persecutionis has been adduced such as to warrant Parliament’s refusing to waive Mr Uspaskich’s immunity. It is noted that the Lithuanian authorities have fully cooperated in the procedure before the Committee on Legal Affairs, giving satisfactory responses and assurances. On the basis of the foregoing and the available documents, it has to be concluded that there is no reason for not waving the parliamentary immunity of Mr Uspaskich. IV. CONCLUSION On the basis of the above considerations and pursuant to Article 6(2) of the