modification of the national action plans. 8. Member States shall step up their efforts to monitor and prevent illegal use of pesticides, in collaboration with the relevant stakeholders. Member States shall report on a regular basis on controls in place regarding illegal use. Chapter II Training, Awareness programmes, and Sales of pesticides Article 5 Training 1. Member States shall ensure that all professional users, distributors and advisers have access to appropriate and independently organised instruction and training or further training, including regular updating on new information available, on the sustainable and proper use of pesticides reflecting the level of responsibility of those concerned and their specific role with regard to integrated pest management. To this end, minimum requirements that are binding throughout the Community shall be laid down . In the case of microbusiness-type farms or wineries, Member States shall ensure that one person working as a professional user within the meaning of Article 3(2) has access to such training. The training or further training shall be designed so as to ensure that sufficient knowledge on the subjects listed in Annex I is acquired. 2. Member States shall ensure that professional users, distributors and advisers are aware of the existence and risks of illegal (counterfeit) pesticides, and are properly trained to identify such products. 3 . Not later than ... * Five years after the entry into force of this Directive. , Member States shall establish an assessment system. Appropriate certificates shall be issued to prove knowledge of the matters referred to in Annex I. The system shall incorporate rules on the preconditions for issue, the period of validity and the withdrawal of the certificates . The certificate issued to a trainee (where that trainee is a professional user from a microbusiness-type farm or winery) shall be valid for that farm or winery, with particular reference to the provisions laid down in Article 6(2). 4 . The Commission may, in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 20(2) , amend Annex I for adaptation to technical and scientific progress. Consequently, as and when deemed necessary by the national authorities responsible, holders of the certificates referred to in Annex I shall be required to undergo refresher training. Article 6 Requirements for sales of pesticides 1. Member States shall ensure that distributors selling pesticides ▐have at least one person in their employment, who has a certificate referred to in Article 5(3), and who shall be present and available at the place of sales to provide information to customers as regards use of pesticides as well as the health and environmental risks and potential adverse impacts associated with them. The certificate shall be not more than 7 years old . 2. Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that sales of authorised pesticides are restricted to use only by professional users holding a certificate referred to in Article 5(3) and in accordance with the advice of suitably qualified, competent professionals designated by the Member States . 3. Member States shall require distributors placing pesticides for non-professional use on the