WRITTEN QUESTION E-4615/07 by Paul van Buitenen (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (26 September 2007) Subject: Misleading reply concerning OLAF's wish to have the offices and private house of a journalist raided In OLAF letter number D/06316 of 27.07.2007, Mr Brüner accused me of ‘completely unsubstantiated allegations’ with regard to OLAF's wish to raid the office and house of a journalist. Mr Brüner reiterated that ‘OLAF has never requested that the Belgian authorities raid the house and office of Mr Tillack’. However, in the correspondence dated 11 February 2004, between OLAF and the German and Belgian judicial authorities, OLAF requested the opening of criminal proceedings, to be performed in parallel in both countries. In that correspondence, OLAF offered to coordinate ‘beispielsweise zeitgleich durchgeführte Durchsuchungen’ (suggested raids to be performed simultaneously) to be executed by both the German and Belgian judicial authorities. In the OLAF ‘Strafanzeige’ (criminal report for the Public Prosecutor) for the Hamburg Prosecutor of that date, OLAF director Mr Perduca says on behalf of OLAF that they had already also discussed the ‘parallele Vorgehen’ (parallel criminal proceedings) of the Prosecutors in Brussels and Hamburg (apparently referring to the abovementioned intended raids in both cities) in a meeting of OLAF officials with Brussels Prosecutor Thoreau. The Commission can receive from OLAF a copy of both of OLAF's requests to the Belgian and German judicial authorities, so that the Commission can judge for itself. If OLAF does not want to transmit this information to the Commission I am of course very happy to provide the Commission with copies of these documents myself. 1. In the light of the abovementioned facts, does the Commission consider that the reply that Mr Brüner gave in his letter to me may not have been entirely correct and may in fact even have been a little bit misleading? 2. What are the consequences for a Director-General if, in answer to questions from an MEP, he appears to write letters that are not in tune with the truth and could even be considered to be slightly misleading?