scientifically sound approach to measuring the shortage of resources will, in the future, be crucial to the sustainable development of the Union. (3) Decision No 1578/2007/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2007 on the Community Statistical Programme 2008 to 2012 OJ L 344, 28.12.2007, p. 15. refers clearly to the need for high-quality statistics and accounts in the domain of the environment. Furthermore, under the main initiatives for 2008 to 2012 it states that legal bases should be developed, where appropriate, for core areas of environmental data collection currently not covered by legal acts. (4) In its Communication of 20 August 2009 entitled ‘GDP and beyond: Measuring progress in a changing world’, the Commission recognised the need to supplement existing indicators with data that incorporate environmental and social aspects in order to allow more coherent and comprehensive policy making. To that end, environmental economic accounts offer a means of monitoring the pressures exerted by the economy on the environment and of exploring how these might be abated. Environmental economic accounts show the interaction between economic, household and environmental factors and consequently are more informative than national accounts alone. They provide a significant source of data for environmental decisions and the Commission should consult them when drawing up impact assessments. In line with the tenets of sustainable development and the drive to achieve a resource-efficient and low-pollution economy, embedded in the Europe 2020 Strategy and various major initiatives, developing a data framework that consistently includes environmental issues along with economic ones becomes all the more imperative. (5) The European System of Accounts (ESA), set up by Council Regulation (EC) No 2223/96 of 25 June 1996 on the European system of national and regional accounts in the Community OJ L 310, 30.11.1996, p. 1. (‘ESA 95’), consistent with the System of National Accounts (SNA), adopted by the United Nations Statistical Commission in February 1993, is the main tool behind the Union's economic statistics as well as many economic indicators (including GDP). The ESA framework can be used to analyse and evaluate various aspects of the economy (e.g. its structure, specific parts, development over time) yet for some specific data needs, such as analysis of the interaction between the environment and the economy, the best solution is to draw up separate satellite accounts. (6) In its June 2006 conclusions, the European Council called on the Union and its Member States to extend the national accounts to key aspects of sustainable development. National accounts should therefore be supplemented with integrated environmental economic accounts providing data that are fully consistent. (6a) It is of great importance that, as soon as the system is fully operational, European environmental economic accounts be actively and accurately used in all Member States and in all relevant Union policy making as a key input to impact assessments, action plans, legislative proposals and other significant results of the policy process. (6b) More timely data could also be produced by now-casting, which uses statistical techniques similar to those used in forecasting to make reliable estimates. (7) Satellite accounts