falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission and concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties. (14) The Commission should, within a period of one month after receiving a request from the organiser, adopt a decision on its admissibility. A proposed citizens' initiative should be considered admissible if it falls within the framework of the powers of the Commission and concerns a matter where a legal act of the Union can be adopted for the purpose of implementing the Treaties. The Commission may consult the European Parliament on the importance and pertinence of the proposed citizens' initiative, before starting to draw up the draft legislative text based on it. Justification The Commission should investigate the admissibility of an initiative within one month instead of two, so that the momentum of collecting signatures is not slowed down. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) It is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories and provided it is considered admissible , each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. (15) In the absence of a competent Union electoral authority, it is appropriate to provide that, where a citizens' initiative has received the necessary statements of support from signatories, each Member State should be responsible for the verification and certification of statements of support collected from citizens coming from that State. Taking account of the need to limit the administrative burden for Member States, they should, within a period of three months, carry out such verifications on the basis of appropriate checks , which may be based on random sampling, and should issue a document certifying the number of valid statements of support received. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (16a) It is of the utmost importance that organisers of a citizen's initiative provide a declaration of any financial means used to support and promote the initiative, in order to ensure full transparency. Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Recital 17 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (17) The Commission should examine a citizens' initiative and set out its conclusions and the actions it envisages to take in response to it, within a period of four months. (17) The Commission should examine a citizens' initiative and set out its conclusions and the actions it envisages to take in response to it, within a period of three months. Justification To ensure and maintain high levels of citizen participation, it is crucial to count on a quick procedure. It is therefore considered that the European