for European Institute of Innovation and Technology The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) will be able to start operating this summer, after the Council's common position on its establishment was officially approved by the European Parliament. The common position was reached after negotiations with the Parliaments' rapporteur Reino Paasilinna (PES, FI), who was satisfied with the compromise, which took on board most of the points raised by Parliament in first reading. Fisheries agreement EC - Guinea-Bissau The European Parliament adopted by 556 votes in favour to 62 against and 15 abstentions a report by Luís CAPOULAS SANTOS (PES, PT) on the conclusion of a fisheries agreement between the European Community and Guinea-Bissau. The Protocol to the agreement, which will apply until 15 June 2011, grants fishing possibilities for 23 tuna seiners and surface longliners from Spain, France and Portugal and for 14 pole-and-line vessels from Spain and France, subject to a total of 37 licences. Fisheries Partnership Agreement EC - Côte d’Ivoire The EP adopted a report by 566 votes in favour to 63 against and 18 abstentions on the conclusion of a Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and Côte d’Ivoire. As regards fishing opportunities, the agreement lays down that authorisation to fish will be granted to 25 freezer tuna seiners (10 vessels from France and 15 from Spain) and 15 surface longliners (10 vessels from Spain and 5 vessels from Portugal), subject to a total of 40 licences. Human rights: Armenia, Russia, Afghan journalist and Iranian homosexual In four human rights resolutions adopted at the end of this week's Strasbourg session, MEPs deplored the violence used by the authorities against opposition demonstrators following presidential elections in both Armenia and Russia, and demanded reprieves for a journalist condemned to death in Afghanistan and for a gay Iranian who could be in grave danger if forced to return to his home country. EU development policy and the new Member States Parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the challenge of EU development cooperation policy for the new Member States, all of which must take part in this well-established policy, although each has its own priorities. The report, by Danute Budreikaite (ALDE, LT) and adopted with 378 votes in favour, 11 against and 16 abstentions, looks at how the new Member States implement their development policy. Empowering women: the key to development Parliament backed an own-initiative report on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation. The report calls for measures to promote women's rights in areas such as responsible governance, employment, education, health and violence against women, arguing that these rights are essential to economic and social development. Global energy efficiency and renewable energy Parliament adopted a report which welcomes the Commission's proposal for a Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund (GEEREF). The report stresses that the key objectives of the fund should be the promotion of energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energies, the reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases and of other risks, the improvement of access to energy services in the poorest countries and the diversification