referred to in Article 83(3). The decision shall be based on objective criteria such as geographic, agricultural and climatic conditions, especially with regard to the target organisms, the performance and impartiality of the competent authority and the reference laboratory, and the absence of interests linked to the producing companies. A joint application may be submitted by an association of producers designated by the producers for the purpose of compliance with this Regulation. 2. A natural or legal person established outside the Community who submits an application shall appoint a natural or legal person established in the Community to fulfil, as his only representative, the obligations on producers under this Regulation. 3. Assessment of an application may be performed by a number of Member States together under the co-rapporteur system. 4. Within 14 days of receiving the application, the rapporteur Member State shall send the applicant a written acknowledgement, stating the date of receipt. 5. When submitting his application, the applicant may, pursuant to Article 66 , request certain parts of the dossiers referred to in paragraph 1 to be kept confidential. He shall explain for each document or each part of a document why it is to be considered as confidential. He shall at the same time submit any claims for data protection pursuant to Article 62 . After giving the applicant the possibility to submit comments on the decision it plans to adopt, the rapporteur Member State shall decide what information is to be kept confidential. It shall inform the applicant and the Authority of its decision. Article 9 Dossiers 1. The summary dossier shall include the following: (a) Data with respect to one or more representative uses on a widely grown crop in each zone of at least one plant protection product containing the active substance, demonstrating that the requirements of Article 4 are met; where the data submitted do not cover all zones or concern a crop which is not widely grown, justification for this approach; b) for each point of the data requirements for the active substance referred to in paragraph 3 , the summaries and results of tests and studies, the name of their owner and of the person or institute that has carried out the tests and studies; c) for each point of the data requirements for the plant protection product referred to in paragraph 3 , the summaries and results of tests and studies, the name of their owner and of the person or institute that carried out the tests and studies, relevant to the assessment of the criteria referred to in Article 4 for one or more plant protection products which are representative of the uses referred to in point (a), taking into account the fact that any data gaps in the dossier, as provided for in paragraph 2, resulting from the proposed limited range of representative uses of the active substance, shall lead to non-approval of the active substance ; d) for each test or study involving vertebrate animals, a justification of the steps taken to avoid animal testing and duplicative testing on