Answer given by Mr Nielson on behalf of the Commission (18 June 2003) The Commission's draft strategy for forest development co-operation sets out broad parameters for aid interventions in the forest sector. The wide scope of this document makes it an unsuitable platform for detailed policy on many pressing issues in the forest sector. That said, the latest draft of the strategy does note bushmeat as a matter of concern in the forest sector in a number of our partner countries. The Commission does not intend to augment the draft forest sector strategy with a specific strategy to address the bushmeat problem. That does not mean bushmeat will not continue to be treated as a matter of great importance. Addressing the bushmeat problem is a matter to which considerable resources are already devoted — both through field-level technical co-operation, and in high-level political fora. Bushmeat issues will be integrated in the manual for Integrating environment concerns into development and economic cooperation , which is to be reviewed at the end of 2003 — beginning of 2004. In particular, the revised manual will ensure that proper attention is given to bushmeat issues in Strategic Environmental Assessments. At a political level, Commission support to the African Ministerial Process for Forest Law Enforcement and Governance (AFLEG) is helping to address problems of law enforcement and governance in the forest sector, including issues concerning bushmeat. In the field, technical support to address the bushmeat problem is being provided through a number of Commission-funded initiatives. These initiatives have been supported with funds disbursed through the Tropical Forest Budget Line and regional and national programmes of assistance. Efforts are also being directed at limiting the trade in illegal bush meat to the Union. For example, a Commission Decision has recently introduced new rules that prevent the personal import of all meat and milk from third countries into the Union. This removes previous derogations that allowed the importation of small consignments of meat and milk for personal use. The introduction of the new rules on personal imports is being supported by a poster campaign in a wide range of languages. The posters are on display at points of entry into the Union to ensure that travellers are made aware of the new rules.