elderly people to access public services more easily, but these services must nonetheless respect their privacy and dignity, say MEPs. Parliament approved a first-reading deal with Council on the programme with 431 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 8 abstentions. Speaking in the debate in Strasbourg, rapporteur Neena Gill (West Midlands, Labour, PES, UK) said: "This report results from initiatives by Member States under Article 169, which is co-funded by the Commission to the tune of EUR 150 million over five years. This will assist the European industry and research institutes in the development of new, cutting-edge ICT services, products and solutions to enhance the quality of life for the older persons. Today, technologies have been developed that can help solve loss of memory, vision, hearing and mobility. Substantive work has already begun, but often there is neither awareness nor widespread use. So this initiative, I hope, will be of real use and help solve societal problems." As the baby-boom generation retires, the number of people aged 65 and older will rise by nearly 40% between 2010 and 2030 (European Commission estimate). But "innovative solutions are emerging to help counteract problems related to memory, vision, hearing, mobility, loss of independence which are more prevalent with age", noted EP rapporteur Neena GILL (PES, UK), adding that since "Ageing is a global phenomenon, a strong base of ICT-enabled solutions in Europe could be the start of export opportunities worldwide". UK and Ireland taking party in the programme In implementing the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007 to 2013), the Community makes a financial contribution to the Ambient Assisted Living research and development programme (hereinafter referred to as "the AAL Joint Programme") undertaken jointly by Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom (hereinafter referred to as "the participating Member States") as well as Israel, Norway and Switzerland. Respect privacy and dignity MEPs add several criteria that the AAL programme should taken into account when selecting projects. The new technology must be adapted to the needs of older people, such as so-called "smart homes", but at the same time, services must respect their privacy and dignity. In order to support (near) market-ready products and services, every project should be co-financed by the private sector, and especially by small and medium-sized enterprises, says another criterion added by the European Parliament. Equitable access for all through cost-effective solutions The AAL programme will aim to develop cost-effective solutions that facilitate equitable and simplified access to new products services across Europe, but especially for older people in rural and peripheral areas. MEPs propose that AAL funding be used inter alia for "conversion projects" that transform former military or industrial installations into housing projects adapted for older people. EU to invest €150 million The Seventh Research Framework Programme will co-finance the AAL programme to the sum of €150 million for 2008-2013. To ensure success, participating countries should jointly contribute at least the same or