of objectives; 7. Notes that the draft detailed work programme nevertheless does not contain an estimate of the budgetary implications for the European Community of the actions proposed; 8. Reiterates its support for the goal of attainment by every school-leaver of proficiency in at least two European languages other than his mother tongue; recommends Europe to make a survey of best practices in language teaching; 9. Calls on the Commission to supplement the indicators for objective 1.2 with an assessment of the learning levels attained; 10. Calls, therefore, for measures to be taken to increase the numbers of young people of both sexes choosing studies and careers in the field of science and technology, in particular research careers and scientific disciplines, to enable the European Research and Science Area to develop in the future, despite the fact that currently there is a lack of qualified people; 11. Welcomes the Commission's endeavours to encourage more men and women to opt for mathematics, natural sciences and technology; these are essential subjects in seeking to make Europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy; 12. Stresses that companies have a role to play in training; therefore, both the EU and the Member States should promote business internships for students and training for employees; 13. Urges the Commission, the Council and the governments of the Member States to bear in mind that, whilst education systems have broader and more humane objectives than training systems and the content of education systems should not be determined solely with reference to the economy and the employment market but also to developing an awareness of citizenship, the ability to communicate, intercultural understanding and social skills, nonetheless, in the interests of improved labour mobility across the Union, careers and vocational guidance programmes should inform students of the opportunities presented within the Union for the free movement of labour; 14. Calls on the Commission to develop indicators for educational objectives such as awareness of citizenship, social skills and cultural understanding; 15. Calls on the Commission, the Council and the Member States to develop and promote education for active citizenship; 16. Welcomes the Commission's proposals for increasing mobility and exchanges (Objective 3.4) but calls for the inclusion as an additional indicator of mobility: contacts between schools, teachers, pupils and students in different countries, also based on participation in Community programmes; 17. Urges the Commission to provide greater incentives to promote mobility among teachers who are native speakers; 18. Calls on the Commission to keep Parliament , those involved in the educational sector and the social partners fully informed about the advice offered by, and discussions within, the working group and sub-groups of experts referred to in paragraphs 69-72 of the Communication by making public the minutes of the meetings of these groups; 19. Calls on the Commission to ensure that the views of those involved in the educational and training sector, including teachers, and of the social partners at European level are incorporated in the work of the Commission and the groups of experts; 20. Welcomes the Commission's proposal to involve the candidate