industries, I. whereas open and fair trade is a powerful tool to create more growth and societal well-being, building on the comparative advantages of each respective economy and potential synergies flowing from a greater economic integration and new inputs to a knowledge-driven economy, J. whereas both the EU and Japan have generally low tariffs on goods with more than two thirds of the Union’s export value to Japan being duty-free and more than one third of Japan’s export value to the EU, K. whereas despite these low tariffs, bilateral trade volumes between the EU and Japan lag behind the bulk of the EU's trade exchanges with its other main trading partners, mostly because of the negative effects of Japanese non-tariff barriers (NTBs) on market access opportunities for European businesses, L. whereas the Copenhagen Economics study of November 2009 estimates that the trade costs associated with non-tariff barriers are higher than the existing tariff levels and that most of the potential economic gains reside in the removal of those NTBs; whereas the study estimates potential increases in EU exports to Japan of €43 billion and €53 for Japanese exports to the EU if tariffs and non-tariff measures are reduced to their fullest possible extent, M. whereas the Commission in its Trade and Investment Barriers Report 2011 has identified obstacles to access to public procurement, insufficient recognition of international standards with respect to medical devices, and preferential treatment for national champions in the financial services (e.g. postal service) as three major areas of EU concern with respect to Japan's NTBs, N. whereas IPR protection and enforcement are judged to be of high quality in Japan; Japan and the EU share common objectives and approaches on matters related to IPR apart from on GIs, and have both committed to the plurilateral fight against counterfeiting and piracy as Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) signatories, O. whereas the ICT industry is a high-added value sector and a source of growth in both the EU and in Japan, especially with respect to further development of smart products and services, P. whereas questions of investment and trade in services need to be raised in all trade discussions with Japan, ensuring that market opening does not compromise either European or Japanese rules on the protection of public services and cultural diversity, Q. reaffirming its solidarity with the Japanese people following the recent natural disasters, 1. Considers that the multilateral trading system, embodied by the WTO, remains by far the most effective framework for achieving open and fair trade worldwide; believes that the European Union and Japan should contribute towards a successful conclusion of the DDA negotiations; 2. Underlines that it is strongly in favour of a free trade agreement between the EU and Japan but is not satisfied with the negligible progress in the High Level Group during the last few years; considers that Japan must make significant commitments on removing non-tariff barriers and obstacles to access to Japanese public procurement before negotiations are launched; 3. Stresses that trade liberalisation between the EU and Japan should coexist with, rather than hinder,