which governs the health and safety of pregnant workers. Leave in specific situations This draft law on maternity and paternity leave should also apply to parents who adopt a child under 12 months old, added MEPs. Furthermore, additional paid leave should be granted in certain situations, such as premature birth, handicapped children, handicapped mothers, adolescent mothers, multiple births and births within 18 months of a previous birth. Employment rights The Women's Rights Committee adopted amendments seeking to prohibit the dismissal of pregnant workers at any time between the start of the pregnancy and six months after the end of the maternity leave. The grounds for any dismissal during this period will have to be formally stated in writing. After a maternity leave, women must have the right to return to their jobs or an "equivalent post", i.e. an equivalent position with the same salary, in the same professional category and with the same functions as before the maternity leave, say MEPs. The committee added that workers must not be obliged to work night shifts or overtime in the ten weeks preceding the birth, during the remainder of the pregnancy in the event of health problems for mother or unborn baby, or throughout the period of breastfeeding. Workers wishing to be exempted from night shifts would have to inform their employers and present a medical certificate. Impact analysis Further to the committee vote, MEPs from the Women's Rights (lead) Committee and the Employment and Social Affairs (associate) Committee agreed to commission an impact assessment of the costs and benefits of their amendments. This request is possible under the Council/Parliament/Commission "better lawmaking" inter-institutional agreement and Parliament's Conference of Committee Chairs guidelines. The impact analysis therefore sought to determine the social and economic costs and benefits of the amendments proposed by the two committees: "a right to maternity leave of 20 weeks fully paid plus two weeks of fully paid paternity leave" (inserted by the Women's Rights and Gender Equality Committee) and "a right to 18 weeks of fully paid maternity leave" (inserted by the Employment and Social Affairs Committee). The analysis was done by an external company. The study was conducted in ten Member States: Belgium, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Spain, Sweden and the UK. It considered four different scenaros: two for fully paid maternity leave of 18 weeks and 20 weeks, each with possible substitution rates of 30% and 80%, and two for fully-paid paternity leave of 2 weeks at substitution rates of 0% and 30%. The costs of the proposals vary among the Member States, because the status of both maternity and paternity leave schemes differs from country to country. The analysis also demonstrates the importance of the substitution rate for economic costs. In the highest cost scenario, i.e. fully-paid maternity leave of 20 weeks and a substitution rate of 30%, the total economic costs per year vary from €0 (Estonia, Poland) to €1.324 million (United Kingdom). According to the study, the benefits are difficult to quantify and estimate in monetary terms. Among the qualitative benefits, the study mentions child