Court of Human Rights; urges, therefore, Member States, and in particular Italy, to take all the necessary measures to limit pre-trial detention as far as possible by speeding up investigations and judicial proceedings and ensuring that each citizen can count on justice being delivered as promptly and fairly as possible; calls on Member States and the Commission, in the context of judicial cooperation, to seek the adoption of a number of European minimum rules on the subject; 38. Considers that, in the cases of detainees or persons under arrest accused of having committed offences outside their own country, the right to prepare their own defence before a court, to submit evidence and call witnesses and to authorise translators and interpreters to facilitate their defence, are rights which must be guaranteed in Member States; 39. Calls on the Member States to take measures in the sphere of civil and criminal procedural law, the organisation of and facilities provided for judicial bodies and training and staffing levels in the various areas of the justice system which serve to reduce the time taken by legal proceedings to the reasonable level indicated by the European Court of Human Rights so that citizens' fundamental rights are respected; 40. Recommends that Member States guarantee the independence of judges and courts from the executive and ensure that appointments to the judiciary are not made on political grounds; fight against terrorism 41. Reiterates that terrorism is a violation of human rights and underlines the importance of cooperation between the Member States in combating it; 42. Calls on the Council to develop the legislative measures necessary to achieve the maximum coordination in the fight against terrorism and an effective level of protection of the citizens; also urges the Council to approve in the shortest time possible the measures for an appropriate indemnity for the victims of crimes, and in particular the victims of terrorism, in conformity with the guidelines of the Commission communication on crime victims in the European Union - reflexions on standards and action, and with the views expressed by Parliament; Action against social violence children"s rights 43. Notes that, on the tenth anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, 20% of children in the EU still suffer from social exclusion, according to a report by Save the Children, and that children's rights are insufficiently embodied in the laws of the Member States and Community legislation and action programmes; 44. Calls for Member States to make the four general principles on which the Convention is based (i.e. serving the best interests of the child, the child's development, non-discrimination and the child's participation in the life of society) the driving force in improving Children's Rights; 45. Calls on the Member States to strengthen their legislation with a view to improving the protection of children against sexual abuse, physical and psychological violence and any kind of discrimination; 46. Urges Member States not to imprison children who commit offences except as a last resort; 47. Calls on Member States to give extra-territorial jurisdiction to their penal codes protecting children