25 October 1999 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure by the following Members: Poettering, Elles, Oostlander, Morillon and van Velzen, on behalf of the PPE Group and Mr Haarder, on behalf of the ELDR Group on the US Senate’s rejection of the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty Resolution on the US Senate’s rejection of the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty The European Parliament, - having regard to the final declaration adopted unanimously at the CTBT Conference in Vienna on 8 October 1999, - having regard to the statement issued by the EU Council Presidency concerning the vote by the US Senate rejecting the nuclear test ban treaty, A. whereas the United States Senate has voted down the global treaty banning nuclear tests and attempting to halt the spread of nuclear weapons, B. whereas this is the first time the US Senate has rejected a nuclear arms control pact, C. whereas the CTBT has already been signed by more than 150 countries but cannot come into force until it is ratified by all 44 countries judged to have nuclear capability, D. whereas 26 countries have ratified the CTBT including all EU Member States, E. whereas Russia and China had been waiting for the US to ratify first; whereas Pakistan and India, the world’s newest nuclear powers, have so far refused to sign, F. whereas at the time of the renewal of the non-proliferation treaty for an indefinite period the prospect of the entry into force of the CTBT played a crucial role, 1. Strongly criticises the decision by the US Senate, in a vote on Wednesday 13 October 1999, to reject the ratification of the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty; 2. Considers that the CTBT is strongly in the interests of all states as an essential barrier to the proliferation of nuclear weapons; 3. Calls upon all states that have not yet signed the Treaty to sign it as soon as possible and in the meantime to refrain from acts that would defeat its object and purpose; 4. Furthermore, urges all those states which have yet to ratify to do so rapidly, in particular those states whose ratification is necessary to bring the Treaty into force; 5. Most importantly of all, urges the US Senate to re-examine the matter with a view to obtaining US ratification of the CTBT Treaty as soon as possible; 6. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Commission, the Council, the Member States, the US Government and the US Senate.