global cooperation and coordination; 63. States that the EU should play an active role in reshaping the international monetary and financial system via more powerful external representation based on more efficient and transparent internal decision-making in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Lisbon Treaty; 64. Welcomes the creation of the four new European financial regulatory bodies, the European Banking Authority, the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority, the European Securities and Markets Authority, and the European Systemic Risk Board, and hopes that they will grow strong and effective; 65. Deems that the need to favour an international level playing field should not prevent the EU or other regional blocks and countries from strengthening regional arrangements aiming at fully using flexibility provided by WTO and other international standards in order to rebalance macroeconomic fundamentals and increase prosperity; 66. Calls on the EU to focus on decreasing its energy dependency in order to curb imported inflation and regain commercial balance with oil-producing countries; 67. Underlines the fact that the production of global public goods such as climate protection and the fulfilment of the Millennium Development Goals could be favoured by an EU qualified market access framework; 68. Calls on the Commission to submit a proposal on how to improve the EU's internal decision-making procedure to improve its coherence as regards external representation in the area of economic and financial affairs to ensure that the EU's representation is democratically accountable to the European Parliament, Member States and national parliaments; 69. Urges the G20 or WTO to explore the possibility of a global agreement for a carbon tax on imported products and services; 70. Recalls that, under Article 138 of the Lisbon Treaty, the euro area is supposed to introduce unified external representation; urges the Commission to put forward a legislative proposal to that effect; 71. Underlines that full participation in the global economy is crucial for Europe in order to take advantage of all its opportunities, and the best opportunity to do so as one unit; 72. Calls on the EU always to promote fair trade, democracy, human rights, decent working conditions and sustainable development in its trade policies, in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty, its internal agenda and the Millennium Development Goals; ° ° ° 73. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission.