Answer given by Mr Bolkestein on behalf of the Commission (17 November 2004) The Honourable Member is concerned about the problems faced by many European citizens working outside their home country, who still need to contact services in their home country that can only be reached by toll-free or premium rate number in the home country and which are often inaccessible to callers resident elsewhere in the EU or charged at dissuasively high fees. The Commission notes that the European regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services applies and contains provisions to address this problem. Toll-free numbers (and premium rate numbers) are non-geographic numbers in the sense of Directive 2002/22/EC Directive 2002/22/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services, OJ L 108, 24.4.2002 . . Article 28 of this Directive specifically requires all Member States to ensure that end-users from other Member States are able to access non-geographic numbers across borders provided it is technically and economically feasible. Some service providers currently decline to provide cross-border access to the non-geographic numbers arguing it is not technically or economically feasible today. Others connect but charge high fees, including when freephone numbers are called across borders. It is a major goal of the Community to create a single market for services, including freephone services. But this will be a challenge for these services. The Commission is currently examining the possibility to create a single market for non-geographic services of general public interest, as a first step towards completing the single market for freephone services. It will cover, initially, the non-geographic numbers referred to in the Honourable Member’s written question in relation to government services. In parallel, the Electronic Communications Committee – of the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT) is working on a harmonised European short code to be used for such purposes. In addition, the Commission will work with the Member States and the relevant national authorities to ensure that any telephone number in national schemes will become internationally accessible. In addition to freephone and premium rate service numbers, this may include hospital phones and other pay phones. One special case is the European Telephony Numbering Space (ETNS). Using ETNS numbers, calls originating from anywhere in Europe can use the same number and be routed and connected to anywhere else in Europe. The ETNS is still at an early stage and the Commission is actively examining how it can ensure its effective implementation which can contribute to a solution for problems with toll-free cross border calling such as that raised by the Honourable Member. Furthermore, the Commission would like to point out that, in general, difficulties related to the access of users to services which are sometimes restricted to the national territory of a particular country and inaccessible for potential users from other Member States, have already been identified by the Commission in its Report on ‘The state of the Internal Market for services’ COM (2002) 441 final. , presented under the first