situation worsened again and the Georgian authorities decided to seek potential external financing. Considering the second and the third review of the SBA (in March and August 2009 respectively) and considering that much of the donor support still needs to be confirmed or its timing needs to be clarified, the Commission decided to confirm the pledge of MFA made at the donors’ conference in order to help Georgia meet its financing needs. 3. Timing constraints This MFA proposal (as all past MFA proposals) has been referred to the Parliament under Article 308 of the EC Treaty, i.e. under consultation procedure. Although there is no deadline foreseen for Parliament's opinion under that Article, the Parliament has always been very quick in responding to the needs to provide MFA. The current proposal was adopted by the Commission on 16 October 2009 (and transferred to Parliament on 20 October 2009). However, as the first instalment is planned to be disbursed already before the end of 2009, the Council has to adopt its Decision before the end of 2009, and Parliament therefore its opinion even earlier (informally the Commission has indicated that it should be adopted at plenary session of 23-26 November 2009). Thus, the Parliament has been effectively given less than a month and a half for adopting its position (whereas the Council has at the time of finalising this draft report by your rapporteur not even officially consulted Parliament yet) and that is simply not acceptable in a legislative procedure. For example, even for opposing Commission's draft implementing measures under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny the deadline for Parliament is not less than three months Article 5a(3)(c) of Council Decision 1999/468/EC. . It shows complete lack of respect for Parliament's role as a legislator, as there can be no justifications for exceptions to institutional powers. Even if preparation of such proposals does not depend on the Commission alone, the Commission knew fully well that the first tranche should be disbursed already in 2009 and thus that the respective Decision would have to be adopted in sufficient time before the year's end. At the same time, if the Decision is not adopted by the end of 2009, it would mean that EC funds would not be transferred to the Georgia's budget this financial year. Considering the factual circumstances and Georgia's strategic importance to the EU in the context of the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP) and the newly established Eastern Partnership, your rapporteur could therefore do his utmost to accommodate Commission's request regarding timing. Stressing, however, that this does not mean accepting the timing imposed by Commission's late proposal, but only tolerating it in these exceptional circumstances. 4. Reasons for not proposing any amendments Your rapporteur has not proposed any amendments to the draft proposal for the time being. Not because the proposal for the Decision would be perfect, but because your rapporteur finds himself in a very difficult position. Firstly, from procedural point of view, adoption of a report with amendments might turn out to be impossible under the current timetable and could thus mean