Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (22 September 2009) In response to the question of the Honourable Member regarding the site closure of the plant of Rottneros AB in Miranda de Ebro (Spain), the following Community legislation is applicable: Directive 2008/1/EC concerning integrated pollution prevention and control (hereinafter: IPPC Directive) OJ L 24, 28.1.2008. requires installations falling under its scope to operate in accordance with permits including emission limit values based on the best available techniques (BAT), designed to prevent and, where that is not practicable, generally to reduce emissions and the impact to the environment as a whole. Article 3(1)(f) of the IPPC Directive stipulates that ‘Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that installations are operated in such a way that (…) the necessary measures are taken upon definitive cessation of activities to avoid any pollution risk and return the site of operation to a satisfactory state’. Moreover, Article 9(3) requires that ‘if necessary, the permit shall include appropriate requirements ensuring protection of the soil and groundwater’. According to information published on the Spanish competent authority's website, an IPPC permit was issued to this installation on 21 October 2007. The Commission will, therefore, investigate with the Spanish authorities how the abovementioned provisions of the IPPC Directive are being implemented in the case of this specific installation. As additional information, the Commission would like to point out that there is currently no specific Community legislation that addresses soil contamination in a comprehensive way. To redress this situation, the Commission has proposed a Soil Framework Directive in September 2006, which aims, inter alia , at identifying and remediating soil contamination. This proposal is currently undergoing the co-decision procedure. In addition, in the context of the revision the IPPC Directive, the Commission has proposed a number of modifications to reinforce its provisions concerning the prevention, monitoring and remediation of soil contamination caused by relevant industrial activities and has clarified the obligations of operators upon definitive cessation of the activities.