place. (a) "victim" shall mean a natural person who suffers any form of crime within the territory of any Member State. In the event of crime victims" death, members of their family or persons in a similar position shall also be regarded as victims. (Amendment 19) Article 1(b) (b) "victim support group" shall mean a non-governmental organisation whose purpose of providing assistance and acting as appropriate, free of charge, on a confidential basis, is recognised by the Member State as complementing its own action in this area; (b) "victim support group" shall mean a non-governmental organisation legally constituted in a Member State whose objectives and/or activities of providing assistance to the victims of crime and acting as appropriate, free of charge, on a confidential basis, is recognised by the Member State as complementing its own action in this area; (Amendment 20) Article 1(ba) (new) (ba) "criminal procedure" shall mean the procedure laid down by the applicable national legislation; (Amendment 21) Article 1(c) (c) "procedure" shall be broadly construed to include, in addition to the process laid down by law , all of victims" contacts with any authority, public service or victim support group in connection with their case , before or after criminal proceedings are in progress. (c) "procedure" shall be broadly construed to include, in addition to the criminal procedure , all of victims" contacts in their capacity as victims with any authority, public service or victim support group before or after criminal proceedings are in progress. (Amendment 22) Article 1(ca) (new) (ca) "mediation in penal matters" shall mean any endeavours, before or during the criminal procedure, to negotiate a settlement between the victim and the author of the crime via the mediation of a competent person. (Amendment 23) Article 2(1) 1. Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that victims are treated with respect for the dignity of the individual and shall recognise the rights and legitimate interests of victims at all stages of procedure. 1. Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that victims are treated with respect for the dignity of the individual and shall recognise the rights and legitimate interests of victims at all stages of procedure , especially in the framework of criminal procedure, by means of the recognition of the legal standing of the victim . Special attention shall be paid to groups which are particularly vulnerable owing to their age, their gender or other reasons. (Amendment 24) Article 2(2) 2. Appropriate measures shall be taken for victims who are particularly vulnerable on account of their age, their sex or other circumstances. 2. All Member States shall adopt appropriate measures to ensure that victims who are particularly vulnerable on account of their age, their sex or any other circumstances receive specific treatment corresponding as closely as possible to their particular situation . (Amendment 25) Article 3 Right to provide information Right to be heard and to furnish evidence Member States shall safeguard the right of victims to be heard in the procedure and their right to furnish evidence, under the conditions