Reply (11 October 2010) The position of the Council is reflected in the Council decision on the organisation and functioning of the EEAS, adopted unanimously on 26 July 2010 OJ L 201, 3.8.2010, p. 30 . . According to Recital 10 of that decision: ‘Recruitment will be based on merit whilst ensuring adequate geographical and gender balance. The staff of the EEAS should comprise a meaningful presence of nationals from all the Member States. The review foreseen in 2013 should also cover this issue, including, as appropriate, suggestions for additional specific measures to correct possible imbalances.’ Article 6, paragraphs 8 and 9, adds that: ‘The High Representative shall establish the selection procedures for EEAS staff, which shall be undertaken through a transparent procedure based on merit with the objective of securing the services of staff of the highest standard of ability, efficiency and integrity while ensuring adequate geographical and gender balance, and a meaningful presence of nationals from all EU Member States in the EEAS. Representatives of the Member States, the General Secretariat of the Council and the Commission are to be involved in the recruitment procedure for vacant posts in the EEAS. When the EEAS has reached its full capacity, staff from Member States, as referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2, should represent at least one third of all EEAS staff at AD level. Likewise, permanent EU officials should represent at least 60 % of all EEAS staff at AD level, including staff coming from the diplomatic services of the Member States who have become permanent EU officials, in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations. Each year, the High Representative shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the occupation of posts in the EEAS.’ Furthermore, the declaration by the High Representative concerning recruitment states that: ‘Representatives of the Member States, the Commission and the General Secretariat of the Council shall be involved in the recruitment procedure in the EEAS together with EEAS officials, through the establishment of a Consultative Committee on Appointment (CCA). The CCA shall compose the selection panel for senior appointments (Directors and above) and propose a short list of candidates for appointment by the High Representative. All candidates for posts of Heads of Delegations shall be subjected to selection procedures. The powers concerning appointments shall be exercised on the basis of a list of candidates on which the Commission has agreed within the framework of the powers that the Treaties confer on it. Candidates from national diplomatic services shall provide a written confirmation of consent of the national diplomatic service to second them in case of their successful application. The CCA shall also monitor selection procedures at other levels in the EEAS and the development of EEAS staffing, including with regard to gender and geographical balance; the staff of the EEAS shall comprise a meaningful presence of nationals from all the Member States. It shall provide advice to the High Representative in these matters.’