Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (21 September 2006) The Commission attaches great importance to the policies aimed at improving air quality in Europe and it considers it necessary to further improve the performance of vehicles regarding the emissions of local atmospheric pollutants. This is the reason why it has adopted the Euro 5 proposal COM(2005)683 final. , which will significantly contribute to the improvement of air quality and is preparing further measures in this area. Unilateral actions by Member States risk, however, undermining the internal market for motor vehicles. Therefore, the potential environmental benefits of the measure concerned must not be disproportionate to the negative consequences on trade within the EU. It should also be recalled that in accordance with the Court's case law, any exception to the principle of the uniform application of Community law and of the unity of the internal market must be strictly interpreted. The Commission is aware of the environmental and health effects related to particulate matter concentrations in the Netherlands. It should be noted, however, that light‑duty vehicles are not the only source of particulate emissions in the Netherlands. Emissions from heavy‑duty vehicles, inland shipping and maritime transport also significantly contribute to particulate matter concentrations in the most populated areas. According to the projections from the Regional Air Pollution Information and Simulation (RAINs) models, while the relative importance of particulate emissions from light‑duty vehicles will decrease in the next years, the importance of the emissions from inland shipping and maritime transport is going to increase. In the assessment of the measure notified by the Netherlands Commission Decision 2006/372/EC of 3 May 2006 concerning draft national provisions notified by the Kingdom of the Netherlands under Article 95(5) of the EC Treaty laying down limits on the emissions of particulate matter by diesel powered vehicles, OJ L 142, 30.5.2006. , the Commission has not questioned the level of environmental and health protection desired by the Dutch authorities. However, the Commission had to consider whether there are alternative measures which would bring the same benefits in terms of particulate matter reduction without constituting an obstacle to trade between Member States. The Commission’s analysis shows that the Dutch Government could indeed use other and even more efficient measures to reach the same or even greater improvements in air quality without interfering with Community legislation. In addition, the Dutch measure, if adopted, would put the EU in infringement of its international obligations since it is incompatible with the 1958 Agreement of the United Nations (UN) Economic Commission for Europe Agreement of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe concerning the adoption of uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles, equipment and parts which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these prescriptions. . By banning the use of vehicles complying with the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN/ECE) Regulation 83 which sets emission limit values identical to those laid down in the relevant EC legislation, the Dutch measure would infringe