market, while welcoming the efforts made by Commissioner Pascal LAMY in the recent steel dispute with the USA. During the debate, Commissioner Diamantopoulou asserted that the EU wanted to conclude an agreement on subsidies to the sector, taking account of the fact that there are countries outside the WTO which subsidise their own producers. Expressing their concern at the steady loss of market share of Italian and European steel production, MEPs remind the Commission that, following the expiry of the European Coal and Steel Community, its role includes tackling the economic and social impact of changes in the European iron and steel sector. They call on the Commission and Member States to adopt a more decisive strategy to tackle industrial restructuring and its social impact. Parliament states that all subsidies granted in the context of public funding, including the Structural Funds, should be made subject to agreements regarding employment, local development and investments for the purpose of modernising production. (The AST Thyssen Krup plant had received significant public investment, including from European funds). MEPs also ask for concrete protection of the interests of employees and for European enterprises to have the opportunity to operate within international markets and not be subject to any kind of dumping. Press enquiries: Enrico D'Ambrogio (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 72795 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42591 e-mail : constit-press@europarl.eu.int Transport New tasks for the European Maritime Safety Agency Emmanouil MASTORAKIS (PES, GR) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 establishing a European Maritime Safety Agency ( COM(2003) 440 – C5-0393/2003 – 2003/0159(COD)) Doc.: A5-0021/2004 Procedure : Codecision (1st reading) Debate : 11.02.2004 Vote: 12.02.2004 Vote In adopting this report from Emmanouil MASTORAKIS (PES, GR), Parliament welcomed Commission proposals to equip the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA) with the legal and technical means necessary to operate specialised anti-pollution ships and equipment for collecting oil and other noxious substances in the sea. MEPs are also in favour of widening EMSA's powers to seafarer's qualifications. However, they did not take on board proposals regarding the extension of the Agency's jurisdiction in the security field, which the Commission had proposed in the light of increased concerns regarding the threat of terrorism and other illicit actions targeting ships and port installations. MEPs argue that the Agency, which is clearly a Community body, should not be given ' third-pillar ' responsibilities. Amendments were adopted demanding that pollution response steps be taken under the authority of the Member State concerned and insisting that the primary responsibility for dealing with pollution lies with the coastal Member States. Parliament also took the view that any security responsibilities of EMSA must be clearly defined. Relevant action could only be taken under the authority of the Member States and only at their request. This would ensure that the subsidiarity principle was applied. Press enquiries: Ton Huyssoon (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73856 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42408 e-mail : region-press@europarl.eu.int Intermodal Loading units Ulrich STOCKMANN (PES, D) Report on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on intermodal loading units ( COM(2003) 155