WRITTEN QUESTION E-2547/10 by Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (20 April 2010) Subject: Unlawful detentions in Panama and the proposed EU‑Central America Association Agreement Last month, the political scene in Panama was marked by the unlawful suppression of labour protests and by widespread unlawful detentions. On 16 March 2010, as members of the National Union of Workers of Construction and Similar Industries (SUNTRACS) distributed pamphlets in the street declaring their stance on various national problems and a 7 % government tax, units of the National Police appeared and used tear gas, rubber bullets and pellets to disperse the crowd. Thereafter 250 union members were arrested without any explanation and placed in solitary confinement, unable to communicate with any of their family members; the following day they were transferred to the prison La Joyita. On that same day, 17 March 2010, the National Police arrived at several construction sites and arbitrarily fined 100 workers who were guilty of nothing but having gone to work. These measures were bolstered by the public support of both Panama's president and its Minister of Government. The fact that such thoroughly unlawful acts — representing a flagrant violation of constitutional, human and labour rights — have enjoyed ample support from the government is alarming, to say the least. What is even more disconcerting, however, is that during this past week's meeting surrounding the impending EU‑Central America Association Agreement, Panama's Vice Minister of Trade, Francisco Alvarez De Soto, remarked that labour unions were always consulted when carrying out government activities. The EU‑Central America Association Agreement, which could be concluded as early as April, will have an enormous impact on the lives of ordinary Panamanians and should be based on honest negotiations. That said, what measures will the Commission take to investigate the events of 16 and 17 March 2010 in Panama? If it does find that labour and constitutional rights were violated by the government during that period, what repercussions will this have for the EU‑Central America Association Agreement? Furthermore, with reference to the Agreement's clause on the liberalisation of dairy imports, what concrete consequences will this liberalisation have for agricultural workers in Panama? Finally, in the proposed Agreement, will there be criminal sanctions for intellectual property infringement of trademarks, patents and Internet software?