Reply (12 September 2011) Japan and the EU consult regularly and cooperate closely on human rights issues, including at the United Nations. Japan is an important partner for the EU in the promotion of human rights both in Asia and globally. For example, the EU and Japan have for a number of years jointly sponsored resolutions on human rights in North Korea at the UN General Assembly and the Human Rights Council. The Council follows the question of the death penalty in Japan very closely and has on several occasions recalled its position of principle on this matter, while encouraging Japan to adopt a moratorium as a first step and recognise the international trend towards abolition. Following two executions in July 2010 HR Ashton issued a statement recalling the EU's position and expressing deep regret at the fact that the executions had taken place. The EU and individual Member States have also organised several meetings and conferences on the death penalty with members of the Japanese Government, parliamentarians and NGOs to raise awareness and to promote debate about the issue. The specific case of the death-row prisoner, Mr Hakamada Iwao, has been raised by officials during regular human rights consultations with Japan, noting that the case did present a number of concerns. Japan has indicated that it would be interested in further discussions with the EU on the question of national human rights institutions, including an exchange of best practice. There are currently no negotiations ongoing between the EU and Japan for a Free Trade Agreement. The EU has consistently argued that any upgrading of bilateral relations should not be limited to economic matters but should be balanced and comprehensive (i.e. covering also political cooperation). At the latest EU‑Japan Summit on 28 May 2011 the two sides agreed to start the process for parallel negotiations for a deep and comprehensive Free Trade Agreement (FTA)/Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) and a binding agreement covering political, global and other sectoral cooperation in a comprehensive manner, and underpinned by the shared commitment to fundamental values and principles. For the EU, this would mean inter alia including a human rights clause akin to that included in international agreements of a similar nature negotiated by the EU with other partners.