on direct aids will not be felt until 2008; 2. Deplores the Council's drastic, across-the-board cut of EUR 525 m in market expenditure, decided using accounting criteria alone, without any clear common vision of the future of farming and without taking account of Parliament's priorities; believes this cut is an indirect form of questioning the conclusions of the Brussels European Council, which had decided the evolution of the maximum amounts available for market and income support up to 2013; 3. Considers that the decision to reduce the amounts allocated to agriculture is not based on any clear vision and calls, therefore, for the restoration of the headings from the preliminary draft budget; 4. Recalls that, even if the European Council agreement provides for an increase at current euro prices of 1% per annum for 2007-2013, this is already a reduction in real terms (assuming inflation of 2% or more), at a time when account has to be taken of two new Member States with large agricultural sectors; 5. Welcomes the fact that it has not been not necessary, for the 2007 budget, to resort to the financial discipline mechanism under which there would be a reduction in direct aids (with no threshold of EUR 5000) should there be a risk of exceeding the annual budget ceilings, a measure which would have been extremely damaging for small family farms; calls on the Commission, nonetheless, in future to inform Parliament as early as possible in the budget calendar regarding the risks of the ceilings being exceeded; 6. Deplores the fact that, despite the major needs existing in terms of restructuring, modernisation and diversification of the rural economy and the assignment of new functions, the resources allocated to rural development in the Union of 27 will be, in real terms, less than those of the Union of 25; 7. Deplores the fact that the compulsory modulation amounts, which, under the 2003 reform, should be an additional form of support for rural development, are in fact serving as a (very partial) compensation for the budget cuts; 8. Calls, in line with Parliament's legislative resolution of 7 June 2005 on the proposal for a Council regulation on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) OJ C 124 E, 25.5.2006, p. 191 , for the sums released under the heading of compulsory modulation to be used for projects under Axes I and II, especially for young farmers and least favoured regions, excluding payments related to NATURA 2000; 9. Notes that with the establishment of the EARDF it will no longer be possible to obtain, in budget terms, a breakdown of amounts by category for rural development measures, as was the case in the past for the EAGGF (Guarantee) rural development measures; calls on the Commission, therefore, to report every six months to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the execution of EARDF-related expenditure, broken down by Member State and by category; 10. Rejects the Commission proposal allowing Member States to use up to 20% of the first-pillar amount to finance