Question for written answer P-001573/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Oreste Rossi (EFD) (14 February 2012) Subject: Structural funds: a new system to reward the most deserving regions The system for allocating new EU structural funds has encountered an initial setback in Italy. From a series of checks carried out by EU inspectors, it appears that the situation is critical. Italy is at risk of losing European incentives, which have been frozen due to ‘significant failings’ in the functioning of the management and inspection system for the carrying out of European projects. What causes most concern is the disparity between funds allocated to, and funds recovered from, ‘non-compliant’ regions. The alarming data relates to the regions covered by the ‘Convergence’ objective. It indicates a general trend in all of the regions in Southern Italy, where in spite of the significant growth in EU assistance allocated for their benefit (and of national co‑funding, based on the principle of additionality), money is being wasted and there is a chronic delay in the management of EU funds that are earmarked for the rebalancing of regional disparities. Sicily, for example, has the worst record in terms of delays in carrying out infrastructure work co‑funded by the EU. While providing for penalty and reward mechanisms to encourage the effective use of funds, the EU rules leave individual States the right to adapt the system of incentives, using whatever methods and criteria for awarding them they deem most appropriate. This risks seriously penalising those regions that are in fact the most ‘deserving’ by creating a generalised responsibility for delays in the implementation of operational programmes, based on the total of sums allocated. Given the need to reprogramme the use of available resources so as to redistribute the money from regional programmes co-funded by structural funds, a more equitable allocation of benefits from EU structural policies is clearly required. Can the Commission state if it considers that the current mechanism complies with European law and, if not, whether it is necessary to modify the award system so as to avoid penalising the most deserving regions, in line with the objective of Cohesion?