Answer given by Mrs Grybauskaitė on behalf of the Commission (26 January 2007) 1 and 2. The budgetary accounts, and the execution of the budget, are based on single entry, as is the case for most public administrations, which find little value-added in recording the use of appropriations in double entry. This is in accordance with the Financial Regulation Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 20002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities, OJ L 248, 16.9.2002. , which does not require the use of double entry for the budgetary accounting. However, each budgetary payment and receipt is recorded in double entry format in the Commission's general accounts for the past 15 years, in accordance with the requirements of Article 134 of the Financial Regulation; it was first used when the SINCOM accounting system was introduced at the Commission. 3. Commission staff cannot make direct changes into the accounting system without her/his user identification being recorded. A series of controls, complemented by automatic logging for auditing purposes, are built into the accounting system to prevent direct modification of entries. All entries, irrespective of their source, have a unique document reference. Once this document has been posted to the accounting system it is not possible to modify the document. Any subsequent changes or modifications to the accounting records require a new document to be created. Each document contains a user identification stating when the entry was made in the production system and by whom. At the user level, all users have a distinct security profile that describes their rights and privileges within the financial systems. Entries require a workflow to be completed. This workflow requires the validation of the Authorising Office by sub-delegation. Details of the workflow (who has entered and then subsequently validated the entry) are stored in each item (e.g. Invoice record). In cases where entries are made by the Commission's central accounting team for the purpose of preparing the Commission's financial statements, access to make postings in the production system is strictly restricted by a security profile unique to each individual user. Security measures are further reinforced by a paper validation circuit. In its annual report concerning the financial year 2005, the European Court of Auditors confirmed the improved security of the newly introduced accrual-based accounting system of the Commission.