Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (12 April 2006) The Commission assures the Honourable Member that it is aware of the report entitled ‘Far from Brussels, an investigation to the implementation of the Bulgarian special accession programme for agriculture and rural development (Sapard) programme’ published by the Bulgarian non-governmental organisation (NGO) ‘Za Zemyata’. The Commission services have already examined and analysed it. The general impression is that the editor of the report, was able to be well informed on all aspects of Sapard, despite the allegation concerning a lack of information transparency and accountability. Some of the issues or allegations mentioned in the report were also raised in the mid-term evaluation and in reports on allegations of irregularities sent to the Commission. The Commission takes account of such reports and, where justified or substantiated, follows up through the appropriate procedures either through modification of the programme, or the implementation procedures or through the Commission control procedures including audits or on–the-spot checks and verification. As regards the reference to the allegation, concerning the selection of projects other than those favouring less developed areas by small and medium-sized enterprises, involved in the likes of organic agriculture or the meat and dairy sectors, such as ski resorts and coastal hotel projects: the Commission was aware of these problems very early in the implementation of the measure concerned, and the Bulgarian authorities stopped the measure and did not finance such projects, as was evident by complainants in the report. Furthermore, the programme has been modified accordingly. The Honourable Member asked what steps the Commission is taking to urge Bulgaria to spend the EU money in full accordance with the national agriculture and rural development plan. Commission representatives participating in the monitoring committee meetings, analyse all documents presented, follow up the monitoring and evaluation of the programme and, if necessary, ask for modifications to be made to it. Concerning the Honourable Member’s question on how the Commission will urge Bulgaria to ensure full transparency and accountability of the projects funded by the Sapard Agency, it must be noted that the Sapard Agency is obliged to apply the programme approved by the Commission, respecting the multi-annual financing agreement (MAFA), the rules and conditions and the accredited system. The Commission can undertake audits, by the clearance of accounts procedure, apply financial corrections and, if necessary, follow up through the investigation procedures under the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). As regards the question of whether the Commission will undertake its own investigation into misuses of EU funds by the Bulgarian Sapard Agency, and urge Bulgaria to transfer back the misused amounts, the Commission confirm that any allegations or irregularities are reviewed and, if substantiated, pursued as described above. If an irregularity is detected, the Commission makes financial corrections as provided in the MAFA.