Africa. The EDCTP Programme has been drawn up with a view to stepping up cooperation and the networking of European national programmes, accelerating clinical trials of new products in the developing countries, helping to strengthen capacities in the developing countries and obtaining additional funds to fight these diseases. The objective of the EDCTP Programme, the cost of which is estimated by participating States at €600 million over a five year period, is to accelerate the development of new clinical interventions to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries, particularly in Sub Saharan Africa. The EDCTP Programme has been drawn up with a view to stepping up cooperation and the networking of European national programmes, accelerating clinical trials of new products in the developing countries, helping to strengthen capacities in the developing countries and obtaining additional funds to fight these diseases. Due consideration should also be given to the relationship between sexual and reproductive health. Justification: Sexual and reproductive health is an important part of the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, programmes and projects in the developing countries should reflect this. (Amendment 3 ) Recital 19 It is essential that the research activities carried out under the EDCTP Programme conform to basic ethical principles, particularly those set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It is essential that the research activities carried out under the EDCTP Programme conform to basic ethical principles, particularly those set out in Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union , as well as the basic principles of gender mainstreaming and gender equality laid down in the Treaty and central to the research area. Justification: As gender mainstreaming is not mentioned in the Commission proposal it should be inserted here to ensure that it is fully taken into consideration. (Amendment 4 ) Article 2, 4 (a) new 4 (a). The rules related to intellectual property that will be adopted should specifically aim at ensuring that the results and products obtained through the EDCTP activities will be managed as public goods, such as referred to in the programme for action to fight poverty diseases in developing countries, and thus ensure that those who need them in developing countries have an easy and affordable access to these products. Justification: The management of the intellectual property rights is essential: the results of the works of the EDCTP will need to be available without undue restriction towards guaranteeing an easy and affordable access to the final product and /or for future research. One of the topics of the Program for Action for accelerated action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis rightly refers to “the development of specific global public goods”. The future results of the EDCTP have to be looked at in this context. The initiative would fail should its resulting products eventually not be available for reasons of monopoly and/or high prices. Moreover, as the EDCPT is primarily a public initiative, involving