of producing and sending the copies. Consultation on the spot, copies of less than 20 A4 pages and direct access in electronic form or through the register shall be free of charge. 2. If a document has already been released by the institution concerned and is easily accessible to the applicant, the institution may fulfil its obligation of granting access to documents by informing the applicant how to obtain the requested document. 3. Documents shall be supplied in an existing version and format (including electronically or in an alternative format such as Braille, large print or tape) with full regard to the applicant's preference. Article 11 Registers 1. To make citizens' rights under this Regulation effective, each institution shall provide public access to a register of documents. Access to the register should be provided in electronic form. References to documents shall be recorded in the register without delay. 2. For each document the register shall contain a reference number (including, where applicable, the interinstitutional reference), the subject matter and/or a short description of the content of the document and the date on which it was received or drawn up and recorded in the register. References shall be made in a manner which does not undermine protection of the interests in Article 4. 3. The institutions shall immediately take the measures necessary to establish a register which shall be operational by 3 June 2002. Article 12 Direct access in electronic form or through a register 1. The institutions shall as far as possible make documents directly accessible to the public in electronic form or through a register in accordance with the rules of the institution concerned. 2. In particular, legislative documents, that is to say, documents drawn up or received in the course of procedures for the adoption of acts which are legally binding in or for the Member States, should, subject to Articles 4 and 9, be made directly accessible. 3. Where possible, other documents, notably documents relating to the development of policy or strategy, should be made directly accessible. 4. Where direct access is not given through the register, the register shall as far as possible indicate where the document is located. Article 13 Publication in the Official Journal 1. In addition to the acts referred to in Article 254(1) and (2) of the EC Treaty and the first paragraph of Article 163 of the Euratom Treaty, the following documents shall, subject to Articles 4 and 9 of this Regulation, be published in the Official Journal: (a) Commission proposals; (b) common positions adopted by the Council in accordance with the procedures referred to in Articles 251 and 252 of the EC Treaty and the reasons underlying those common positions, as well as the European Parliament's positions in these procedures; (c) framework decisions and decisions referred to in Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (d) conventions established by the Council in accordance with Article 34(2) of the EU Treaty; (e) conventions signed between Member States on the basis of Article 293 of the EC Treaty; (f) international agreements concluded by the Community