3, most of which relates to Lisbon Process policies; 39. Urges the Commission and the European Investment Bank, in cooperation with business organisations, to review and modify accordingly the existing subsidies for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises so that they facilitate company start-ups to a greater extent; calls for the establishment of systems allowing improved access, in particular for small and micro‑enterprises, to EIB/EIF funds for legislative and environmental investments and investments in the new technologies and intangible investments linked to training; 40. Urges the Commission and the European Investment Bank to take greater account, in their subsidies, of the role of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and their special characteristics, in terms of both economic sector and corporate structure (partnerships, companies with share capital); 41. Urges the Commission and public authorities at all levels to implement measures to open up public contracts to SMEs; such contracts account for 16% of the EU’s GDP, yet frequently remain inaccessible to smaller businesses, due to cultural, administrative and financial barriers; 42. Urges that the new rules on equity capital for banks (Basel II) in the European Union must take due account of the distinctive features of over 18 million SMEs in Europe and in particular of those starting up companies; 43. Expects the Commission to do everything in its power to involve the accession countries more closely in the promotion of entrepreneurship; 44. Believes it is appropriate to research into entrepreneurship in the various Member States under the sixth framework research programme and to draw up proposals; 45. Confirms the individual items in the Charter for Small Enterprises according to which the correct and essential starting points are to be identified and encouraged in ten fields of activity; is surprised in this respect that the Enterprise Policy Group (EPG) which advises the Commission comprises only a tiny number of representatives of small enterprises, although they account for 95% of European enterprises; looks to the Commission to include representatives of small and micro‑enterprises in all necessary forums, as it has pledged to do; 46. Praises the Commission for listing in its report on the implementation of the European Charter for Small Enterprises a whole range of positive examples from all Member States in order to draw attention to the differing level of implementation in the individual Member States and to provide the Member States with evidence of the best available practice; 47. Urges easier access for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to sources of risk capital and knock-on financing and calls in this connection on the Commission to issue competition policy guidelines for the promotion of company start-ups; considers also that professional and mutual guarantee and security systems must be encouraged in the Member States; 48. Expects from the Commission from 2005 onwards an annual report on the development of entrepreneurship in the European Union and in the Member States; 49. Considers that levels of participation in enterprise vary around the world; believes that the Commission should undertake further research to ascertain if there are any clear reasons or lessons to be learnt to explain