WRITTEN QUESTION E-3370/08 by Frieda Brepoels (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (17 June 2008) Subject: European promises to the USA at the Transatlantic Economic Council During the Transatlantic Economic Council, Commissioner Verheugen made a number of striking promises to the US which directly contradict European standards on the environment, food safety, consumer protection and health. For example the Commissioner promised that cosmetics from the USA may be imported without registration as required by the REACH Directive on chemical products. He also urged the lifting of the ban of the import of American chicken treated with chlorine derivatives. I deeply regret that the Commission is caving in to pressure from the US on such important issues. Hence my questions to the Commission: 1. on cosmetics: (a) Cosmetics are by definition chemical substances or mixtures. The aim of REACH is to improve the protection of the environment and health by improving the identification of chemical substances. How does the Commission justify the fact that stringent requirements are imposed on our own products while American products are exempt? (b) How can the Commission guarantee European consumers that American products are just as safe as those from Europe? (c) Does this not result in a competitive disadvantage for European producers, who do have to comply with the regulations? Does the Commission possess an impact study on this? (d) How many American cosmetics are imported into the EU annually? What is their share of the European market, both in percentage and absolute terms? 2. in the event of the ban on the import of ‘chlorinated chicken’ being lifted: (a) How will the Commission guarantee that the proposed chlorination of chicken will not have negative effects on public health, and that this does not represent a retrograde step on the path on which the EU has embarked with such conviction? (b) American meat is cheaper because there are fewer upstream checks on hygiene. Does not the lifting of the ban on imports not amount to a competitive disadvantage for European producers? If so, how can this be remedied? (c) How will the Commission protect the right of consumers to be provided with complete information under all circumstances?