to undertake objective investigations and start infringement proceedings whenever a Member State, in implementing EU legislation, violates the rights enshrined in the Charter". It further "reminds the Commission to request that Member States provide reliable data and facts and to collect information also from non-governmental sources". It draws attention to the "recent revival of nationalism, xenophobia and discrimination in some Member States" and stresses the central role that the European Commission should take in order to prevent and combat these possible violations of fundamental rights. MEPs expect Justice, Fundamental Rights and Citizenship Commissioner Viviane Reding to take "concrete actions" to match her "declared intentions". These must include "zero tolerance" of violations of the Charter and "conducting in-depth investigations and initiating infringement procedures when Member States are in breach of their human rights obligations in implementing EU law". MEPs also call on the Commission to develop "a transparent and coherent way to address possible violations of human rights and make a relevant use of Article 7 TEU on the basis of the new fundamental rights architecture". "Freezing" contested policies and practices "EU action should not only address violations of fundamental rights after they have happened, but should also seek to prevent them", MEPs stress, calling for "a reflection on mechanisms for early detection of potential violations of fundamental rights in the EU and in its Member States, temporary freezing of the measures which constitute such violations, accelerated legal procedures for determining if a measure is contrary to EU fundamental rights and for sanctions in the event that these measures are nonetheless implemented contrary to EU law". Under this "temporary freeze" procedure, contested national policies and practices falling within the remits of EU law and fundamental rights would "immediately be frozen until the Commission decides upon the formal launching of the infringement and/or fundamental rights proceedings and reaches a formal decision on their lawfulness and compatibility with European law and fundamental rights". Coherence of EU internal and external human rights policy The committee calls on the EU to "make effective" the human rights clauses in international agreements and to take account of Charter principles when entering into agreements with third countries, as well as to "maintain coherence between its internal and external human rights policy". The European External Action Service (EEAS) "can only offer an opportunity to enhance coherence and effectiveness in the sphere of external policy's efforts to promote human rights and democracy if a human rights-based approach to the service's structure, resources and activities is endorsed", stress MEPs. The report, drawn up by Hungarian MEP Kinga Gál (EPP) was approved in committee with 49 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. It will be put to a vote by the full Parliament at its December plenary session in Strasbourg. In the chair: Juan Fernando López Aguilar (S&D, ES) 20101122IPR97429 Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs Committee EN 1 LINK /activities/committees/homeCom.do?language=EN&body=LIBE -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN