Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (19 July 2011) The Commission is aware of the judgment delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union on 28 April 2011in Case C‑61/11 PPU ( El Dridi ). In substance, the judgment confirms that the detention related provisions of the Return Directive 2008/115/EC Directive 2008/115/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals, OJ L 348, 24.12.2008. are unconditional and sufficiently precise to be relied on by individuals against the Member State which has failed to transpose them. It points out that national rules (including criminal rules) must not undermine the harmonisation established by the Return Directive and it highlights that national rules which undermine the effet utile of the directive by imposing a prison term on an illegally staying third-country national who does not comply with an order to leave the national territory — instead of providing for an enforcement of the obligation to return under the terms of the Return Directive — must therefore not be applied. The Commission welcomes the judgment and considers that it reinforces the objective pursued by the Return Directive, namely, the establishment of an effective policy of removal and repatriation of third-country nationals staying in an irregular way, in line with the respect of fundamental rights. The logic developed by the ECJ in this judgment may have repercussions on all those Member States which have legislation in force which is comparable to the contested national rules which were subject of this judgment. Commission expects each Member State to assess the consequences of this judgment individually and to draw the necessary conclusions. The implications of the judgment will also be discussed with Member States expert in the Contact Committee Return Directive. The deadline for the transposition of the Return Directive expired on 24 December 2010 and its full impact will become apparent in the coming months and years. A first report on its application is due by 24 December 2013. It would be premature to propose an amendment of the directive before the adoption of this first Evaluation Report.