Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (19 October 2007) The Commission's decision to close of the eastern cod fishery for Poland (Regulation (EC) No 804/2007 Commission Regulation (EC) No 804/2007 of 9 July 2007 establishing a prohibition of fishing for cod in the Baltic Sea (Subdivisions 25-32, EC Waters) by vessels flying the flag of Poland, OJ L 180, 10.7.2007. ) is based on the exhaustion of the Polish quota for 2007. This decision is not linked to the proposed Total Allowable Catch (TAC) for 2008. The Commission's proposal for the TAC for 2008 is based on the scientific advice from the International Council for Exploration of the Sea (ICES) and the recently adopted multi-annual plan for the cod stocks in the Baltic Sea. The Commission believes that guaranteeing sustainable fishing communities around the Baltic starts with sustainable fisheries. The multi-annual plan adopted by the Council of Ministers in June 2007 aims at bringing the cod fishery in the Baltic back to sustainable exploitation levels. A thorough assessment of the cod stocks, which is made on an annual basis, and is based on the joint work of scientists from all Baltic countries within (ICES) and validated by scientists within the Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries (STECF). It is to be noted that ICES is an independent body of scientists that provides advice and recommendations to the Commission on the status of fish stocks in the majority of Community waters. ICES analysis of the cod stocks in the Baltic is based on estimates of catches by all parties including unreported landings, emanating from information from the fishing sector and inspectors. The information regarding the development of the eastern cod stock over the last years is robust and has not revealed any discrepancies. The eastern cod stock has been outside safe biological limits for more than 10 years now and the removal rate is extremely high and therefore not sustainable. In addition, misreporting is increasing, causing an additional unaccounted impact on the stock and reducing prospective legal fishing opportunities for all fisheries of this stock. The Commission has conducted a series of inspections in all the Member States bordering the Baltic Sea from 2005 to 2006 in order to evaluate the level of compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. During these inspections systematic discrepancies were found between the quantities of fish landed and those declared depending on the presence or absence of landing inspectors of the national authorities. The situation was especially severe in Poland, where the highest under-reporting of catches was observed. Thus, when the Commission closed Poland's eastern cod fishery, catches were at least three times the amount declared by Poland. The Commission has not resorted to discriminatory measures. It has applied the same criteria to all the Member States concerned. It has always treated the problem of under-recording of Baltic cod catches as a general issue concerning all Member States bordering the Baltic Sea. Indeed Commission inspections established that the problem exists in all Member States. Nevertheless, by conducting uniform assessments of