Question for written answer E-011122/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Charles Tannock (ECR) (13 January 2011) Subject: Ireland, property bubbles and key elements of a sound banking and currency system in Europe Although all EU Member States have difficulties with public finances, the recent financial crisis has taken essentially two forms. One — the ‘Anglo-Saxon’ problem — relating to systemic instability within the banking system generated by over-exposure to bad property loans and complex financial products, was particularly problematic in the US, the UK and Ireland, where the most unsustainable property booms had taken place. (Spain, where property prices had also risen inexorably, was spared the worst effects largely because of the higher capital-adequacy ratios of its banks.) The other — which has particularly affected the Eurozone — is a looming sovereign debt crisis of a more traditional kind, which has necessitated rescue packages for Greece and, now, Ireland, and may yet involve Portugal, Spain and other parts of the Eurozone. Ireland is unique to the extent that systemic instability within its banking sector (where bank liabilities approximate to 400 % of annual GDP, a figure exceeded only in the UK) has transpired to generate a sovereign debt crisis, whose government perhaps unwisely decided to guarantee the entire banking sector, with huge overexposure of banks to property loans being a crucial determinant of that instability. Despite much tighter controls on mortgage lending, there has been consternation in Germany at the degree of exposure to both these elements on the part of German banks. It is not an exaggeration to suggest that French, German and Dutch anxieties over the effect on their banks of sovereign defaults within the Eurozone, as well as the need to prevent significant revaluation of the euro as a result of peripheral Eurozone members being forced out, have been the driving forces behind the recent rescue packages, as well as attempts to generate systemic stability through reforms to the banking bonus culture, transparency in derivatives, stricter capital-adequacy requirements and, more recently, much stricter enforcement of the Growth and Stability Pact. In his answer to Written Question E‑5279/2009, Commissioner McCreevy referred to the ‘bitter lessons’ of recent housing bubbles. The IMF recently estimated that the UK housing market is 20 % overvalued, although there are many who eagerly anticipate a return to spiralling property prices, despite the damage to the wider economy. Does the Commission believe that the events in Ireland have demonstrated a clear need for measures to prevent artificial property booms for the future, and if so, what, if any, are the Commission’s current proposals? Could the Commission also indicate what ‘enhanced cooperation procedures’ are available under the Lisbon Treaty to address this issue?