1999/382/EC Council Decision 1999/382/EC of 26 April 1999 establishing the second phase of the Community vocational training action programme "Leonardo da Vinci" (OJ L 146, 11.6.1999, p. 33). respectively include the development of open and distance learning, and the use of information and communication technologies. (2) The conclusions of the European Council meeting held in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March 2000 ("the Lisbon Council"), emphasised the need for adaptation of European education and training systems to the needs of the knowledge economy, and declared the promotion of new basic skills, in particular in information technologies, as one of the three main components of this new approach. (3) The initiative " e Learning: designing tomorrow's education" , launched in May 2000 by the Commission in response to the Lisbon Council was endorsed by the European Council at its meeting in Feira in June 2000. At its meeting in Stockholm in March 2001, the European Council noted the positive results of the initiative. (4) The " e Learning Action Plan" developed the four action lines of the e Learning initiative (infrastructures and equipment, training, European quality contents and services and cooperation at all levels) in ten key actions, bringing together the various Community programmes and instruments, for increased coherence and synergy between them and for enhanced accessibility to users. (5) On 15 May 2001, the European Parliament adopted a Resolution OJ C 34 E, 7.2.2002, p. 153. on both Commission Communications on the subject recognising that the e Learning initiative is helping to strengthen the idea of a "single European educational area", which complements the European research area and the European single market, and calling for it to be developed independently under a new specific programme, with a clear legal basis, avoiding duplication with existing programmes and providing more visibility and added value to Community action. (6) The Council Resolution of 13 July 2001 on e Learning OJ C 204, 20.7.2001, p. 3. endorses this initiative, and calls upon the Commission to continue and intensify its actions in this field. (7) The Commission adopted, on 21 November 2001, the Communication "Making a European area of lifelong learning a reality", indicating the potential of e-learning for making available and managing new educational opportunities to this end. (8) The conclusions of the European Council meeting held in Barcelona in March 2002 called for a Europe-wide school-twinning action and were followed by the Commission Report on school twinnings via Internet, presented to the European Council at its meeting in Seville, as well as an Internet and computer user's certificate for secondary-school pupils. (9) There is a need to address the problem of social exclusion resulting from the inability of some individuals to take full advantage of the benefits offered by Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) and the Internet in the knowledge society, the so-called "digital divide", which often affects young people, the disabled and elderly , and social categories who are already victims of other forms of exclusion. (10) Close attention needs to be paid to the education and in-service training of teachers so that they