Answer given by Mr Vitorino on behalf of the Commission (21 October 2004) The Commission, together with other EU Institutions, is engaged in the prevention of and the fight against child prostitution, child pornography and other forms of abuse and exploitation of children. In this context, the Commission is responsible for the administration of funding instruments such as the AGIS Framework Programme for police and judicial co-operation in criminal matters and the Daphne programme on preventive measures to fight violence against children, young persons and women. The Commission is not aware of any event financed under these programmes that included the participation of Stephen King. In 2003, the Commission set up an Experts Group on Trafficking in Human Beings. Furthermore, the Commission organised a number of workshops concerning human trafficking under the EU Forum for the Prevention of Organised Crime. One convened in May 2004, specifically focused on child trafficking and related forms of exploitation. Applications for funding under the above-mentioned programmes are thoroughly evaluated by the Commission. Applicants are required to provide sufficient information about their status and activities. Private organisations have to present official registration certificates, a list of directors and/or executive board members as well as annual activity reports. Usually, projects have to be implemented by two or three different public or private organisations. This may also ensure some mutual control and peer evaluation by the organisations concerned. As regards the Experts Group on Trafficking in Human Beings, specific information including detailed curricula vitae about all persons proposed for membership was required and evaluated. Different Directorates-General within the Commission were involved in the selection of the members of Experts Groups on Trafficking in Human Beings. Furthermore, the Commission invited a number of persons to hold key note speeches or to present specific studies at conferences, workshops or seminars concerning trafficking in human beings and the exploitation and abuse of children, for example in the framework of the EU Forum for the Prevention of Organised Crime. All these persons were chosen in close cooperation with public authorities or well-known international, inter-governmental or non-governmental organisations in order to ensure real expertise. When projects are funded by the Commission, promoters are responsible for whom they invite. The Commission supposes that the ‘bona fide’ of these people is checked by the entities that proposed them as the Commission relies on the information provided by either the national public administrations or the private partners to verify the ‘bona fide’ the persons concerned. The Commission also funds activities dealing with children’s online safety under the Safer Internet programme. Proposals from organisations which seek funding are evaluated by outside experts. They are required to demonstrate that they have support from other relevant organisations (government, civil society, Internet industry). Regular reporting is required and projects are also reviewed by outside experts. The hotlines which take reports from the public related to illegal content on the Internet have strict vetting procedures for employing staff for these tasks. Speakers asked to speak at seminars and conferences are well-known experts of long standing experience with appropriate professional qualifications.