6 February 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Othmar Karas, Karl-Heinz Florenz, Jorge Moreira da Silva and Anders Wijkman on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on the World Economic and Social Fora (Davos and Porto Alegre) European Parliament resolution on the World Economic and Social Fora (Davos and Porto Alegre) The European Parliament, – having followed the 2003 World Economic Forum (Davos) and World Social Forum (Porto Alegre), A. whereas the World Economic Forum and the World Social Forum are streamlining policies and strategies, with increasing influence year by year, on the world economy, social progress and other current relevant world-wide issues, B. whereas the Iraqi crisis has been a constant factor in these debates, C. whereas globalisation is a consequence of heterogeneous, not always planned, progress in different areas such as market development, communication technologies, reduction of transport costs, expansion of free market economies, international agreements such as those of the WTO, IMF and others; whereas globalisation does not imply homogenisation and whereas cultural and linguistic diversity therefore remain essential to a full human existence, D. whereas globalisation in itself does not guarantee the economic progress of the developing economies, E. whereas in Europe the recovery from the world economic crisis is slow, with no clear acceleration of economic growth in 2002 and still uncertain prospects for 2003, F. whereas the current crisis poses a new challenge to policy-makers due to particular characteristics of its own, combining deceleration of growth with relative price stability, at a time when Europe has just adopted a common currency, G. whereas the European social model is the best example to show the rest of the world that it is possible to reconcile an open free-market economy with social cohesion, On the global economy 1. Believes that globalisation must be accompanied by greater efforts to reduce poverty; reaffirms its commitment to the United Nations Millennium Declaration Goals and asks the Commission to monitor achievements in this area and submit a report to Parliament every year; 2. Considers that the current international crisis - Iraq, Middle East, North Korea - may cause the economic prospects for 2003 to deteriorate; 3. Considers that the commitment to the Lisbon-Götteborg agenda is the best way simultaneously to achieve economic growth and sustainability; regrets that the pace of reform in 2002 has remained quite slow; 4. Points out the need to perfect the functioning of the internal market, as well as the need to strengthen the political role of the EU vis-a-vis international politics; requests the European Commission to put forward the necessary initiatives to achieve this, taking into account its role in economic policy coordination, as well as the responsibilities arising from its right of initiative; 5. Considers that there is a need to improve investor confidence through more effective corporate governance regulation; considers that optimal regulation is an ongoing process that must respond to the changing global environment; and points out that one key factor in rebuilding trust amongst investors is that company boards must