an efficient control by the co-legislator (the EP) especially as the priority axes and projects set out in Annex I and Annex II are very largely defined. It is therefore proposed to limit the revision of Annex III by comitology procedure to those modifications which are of a purely technical nature such as issues concerning the detailed geographical planning, issues related to the detailed funding or the material used. However, substantial changes of the marked-out route or the addition of new projects must remain subject to the codecision procedure (referred to in Art. 251 of the Treaty). Amendment 5 Article 7, paragraph 2 a (new) 2 a. Priority projects shall be compatible with sustainable development and meet the following criteria: a) they must have a significant impact on the competitive operation of the internal market and/or b) they must strengthen security of supply in the Community. Justification The criteria laid down in this amendment were mentioned in the initial Commission proposal (art. 6a) These criteria for priority projects have not been included in the wording of article 7 of the common position. Compromise amendment Amendment 6 Article 11, paragraph ‑ 1 (new) ‑ 1. Member States shall report to the Commission before 1 July every two years on the implementation and progress made in carrying-out of priority projects of European interest which concern transborder connections as mentioned in Annex III, points 1, 2 and 7. Justification Based on amendment 16 of first reading. There is a need to evaluate the implementation of the projects on a regular basis. Member States are playing an important role in this sector. As mentioned in Article 6, paragraph 6 of the current Decision No 1254/96/EC "Member States shall take any measures they consider necessary to facilitate and speed up the completion of projects of common interest and to minimise delays while complying with Community law and international conventions on the environment. In particular, the necessary authorisation procedures shall be completed rapidly". It is therefore suggested to ask Member States to report on an regular basis on the European transborder energy infrastructure projects (especially those mentioned in Annex III, projects a), b) and f). These projects are of special interest for the completion of the internal market in energy. According to the conlusions of the European Council in Barcelona Member States have agreed to meet a "target of a level of electricity interconnections equivalent to at least 10% of their installed production capacity". Amendment 7 Article 11, paragraph 1 1. Every four years the Commission shall draw up a report on the implementation of this Decision, which it shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. In this report, attention shall also be given to the implementation and progress made in the carrying out of priority projects which concern cross‑border connections as mentioned in Annex II, points 1, 2 and 7. 1. On the basis of the reports mentioned in paragraph -1 (new) and every two years the Commission shall draw up a report on