CEIOPS members can combine their efforts, they will do so, as I have outlined. CEIOPS recognises that there is more to do. Our work is by its very nature ongoing and growing. We fully intend to go into greater depth on consumer complaints processes across the EU " (H7). When asked about the relationship between FIN-NET and CEIOPS, Mr BJERRE-NIELSEN stated that " one of the many differences ... is that some of the CEIOPS members do not deal with contractual complaints – if I may use that expression " (H7). " We are responsible for solvency matters, prudential matters and [conduct of] business ... matters, rather than for specific complaints. So the best answer I can give you is that of course we are aware that FIN-NET is there, but due to our preoccupation with Solvency II we have not spent much time on it. But we will come back to that at a later stage " (Mr BJERRE-NIELSEN, H7). XI. The case for a European class action lawsuit As became apparent in the course of the committee's investigation, the costs and risks involved with litigation by individuals against financial services providers are in many cases disproportionate, when compared to the relatively small amounts of damage to be recovered. As Mr ALEXANDER stated in WS " many investors and consumers, when they lose money, it may not be in absolute terms a great amount as far as going and getting a lawyer involved ". Furthermore, he indicated that " in financial services you have consumers who have been sold investment products in a similar way, or ... there was a similar type of failing in the sales process " (WS2). Thus, alleged mis-selling by financial services providers often affect large numbers of consumers who have been sold similar products in similar ways, and therefore have similar legal claims. Mr ALEXANDER considered that " the class action concept is particularly appropriate in financial services because it does allow consumers and investors to pool their claims together, if they are similar regarding their factual content and legal claim . (WS2)" A right to collective legal action on an EU-wide basis would not only serve to better protect policyholders, including cross-border customers. The availability of class action would empower the consumer in a way that would furthermore create an additional regulatory mechanism that helps ensuring compliance by financial services providers with applicable law. In Mr ALEXANDER's view " policyholders should be able to rely on both a system of collective protection which allows the regulator to bring claims on behalf of policyholders against firms or persons and a collective right of legal action to be exercised by a class or group against firms or persons in breach of EU financial services law " (WE-FILE 31). According to him, EU law should be amended to allow EU investors or non-EU purchasers/investors in EU financial services products to bring a type of group or class action in member state courts to recover losses arising from violations of EU financial services legislation. Mr ALEXANDER pointed out the