networks, where necessary; 2) for electricity networks: a) adapting and developing networks to facilitate the integration and connection of renewable energy production; b) ensuring interoperability of electricity networks within the Community, and with those in the accession and candidate countries , and other countries in Europe and in the Mediterranean and Black Sea basins; 3) for gas networks: a) developing natural gas networks in order to meet the Community's natural gas consumption needs and to control its natural gas supply systems; b) ensuring interoperability of natural gas networks within the Community and with those in accession and candidate countries and other countries in Europe, in the Mediterranean Sea, Black Sea and Caspian Sea basins, as well as in the Middle East and the Gulf regions, and diversification of natural gas sources and supply routes. Article 5 Lines of action The broad lines of action by the Community on trans-European energy networks shall be: a) the identification of projects of common interest and priority projects, including those of European interest ; b) the creation of a more favourable context for development of those networks. Article 6 Projects of common interest 1. The generic criteria to be applied when a decision is taken on identification of , modifications to , or specifications or applications for updating projects of common interest shall be the following: a) the project falls within the scope of Article 2; b) the project meets the objectives and priorities for action set out in Articles 3 and 4 respectively; c) the project displays potential economic viability. The evaluation of economic viability shall be based upon a cost-benefit analysis which takes account of all costs and benefits, including those in the medium and/or long term, in connection with environmental aspects, security of supply and the contribution to economic and social cohesion. Projects of common interest which relate to the territory of a Member State shall require the approval of the Member State concerned. 2. Additional criteria for identifying projects of common interest are set out in Annex II. Any changes to the additional criteria for identifying projects of common interest set out in Annex II shall be decided upon in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty. 3. Only those projects listed in Annex III which fulfil the criteria laid down in paragraph 1 and those set out in Annex II shall be eligible for the Community financial aid provided for under Regulation (EC) No 2236/95. 4. The indicative project specifications, comprising the detailed description of the projects and, where appropriate, their geographical description, are set out in Annex III. These specifications shall be updated in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2). Updates shall be of a technical nature and shall be limited to technical changes of projects, or to modification of a part of the specified routing, or to limited adaptation of the location of the project. 5. Member States shall take any measures they consider necessary to facilitate and speed up the completion of projects of common interest and to minimise delays,