6.7.2005 JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 115(5) of the Rules of Procedure, by – Anders Wijkman, Maria Martens, Mario Mantovani, Bernd Posselt and Charles Tannock, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group – Pasqualina Napoletano, on behalf of the PSE Group – Philippe Morillon and Fiona Hall, on behalf of the ALDE Group – Margrete Auken, Raül Romeva i Rueda, Marie-Hélène Aubert and Frithjof Schmidt, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group – Marco Rizzo and Vittorio Emanuele Agnoletto, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group – Anna Elzbieta Fotyga and Ģirts Valdis Kristovskis, on behalf of the UEN Group replacing the motions by the following groups: – Verts/ALE (B6‑0417/05) – ALDE (B6‑0418/05) – PSE (B6‑0422/05) – GUE/NGL (B6‑0433/05) – PPE-DE (B6‑0437/05) – UEN (B6‑0441/05) on the human rights situation in Ethiopia European Parliament resolution on the human rights situation in Ethiopia The European Parliament , – having regard to its previous resolutions on Ethiopia, – having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. having regard to the violent repression of protest demonstrations on 8 June following the postponement of the final results of the general elections on 15 May 2005, which left 36 dead, more than 100 injured and led to thousands of arrests, B. whereas, under Ethiopian law, any arrested person must be brought before a court within 48 hours, C. whereas up until then the electoral process had not seen any major incidents, and the Ethiopian population’s faith in democracy had been demonstrated by the participation of around 90% of the electorate in the vote on 15 May, D. whereas 299 complaints of fraud were lodged with the electoral commission, which decided to open an inquiry in 135 constituencies, E. whereas, following these inquiries, a recount or even new elections may be ordered in some constituencies, F. whereas the final announcement of the result, scheduled first for 8 June, then for 8 July, will have to be postponed again pending the outcome of the hearing of the complaints, G. whereas voting in the election of 23 MPs for the Somali region is scheduled for August, H. whereas the government and the opposition parties, in a joint statement, have undertaken to ‘seek for a resolution to all the problems by legal and peaceful means’, I. whereas the political stability of Ethiopia is crucial to all the countries in the Horn of Africa, 1. Condemns the violent repression against civilians, opposition leaders and supporters and the killing of at least 36 persons; 2. Expresses its fullest sympathy and solidarity to the people of Ethiopia and presents its condolences to the victims’ families; 3. Hopes that an impartial commission of inquiry will determine who was for the tragic turn of events on 8 June and that the persons in question will be brought to justice; 4. Calls for the freeing of journalists and others who are held without charge, and for those arrested to be treated in strict conformity with Ethiopian law and the Ethiopian Constitution, in accordance with international law on human rights; 5. Welcomes the recent release