committees. This provision shall not apply to defamatory insults. (2) A Member may not be called to account or arrested for a punishable offence without permission of the Bundestag, unless he is apprehended while committing the offence or in the course of the following day. (3) The permission of the Bundestag shall also be required for any other restriction of a Member’s freedom of the person or for the initiation of proceedings against a Member under Article 18. (4) Any criminal proceedings or any proceedings under Article 18 against a Member and any detention or other restriction of the freedom of his person shall be suspended at the demand of the Bundestag. . Article 46 of the Basic Law of the Federal Republic of Germany lays down the scope of parliamentary immunities. Paragraph 1 thereof stipulates that ‘at no time may a Member be subjected to court proceedings or disciplinary action, or otherwise called to account outside the Bundestag for a vote cast or for any speech or debate in the Bundestag or in any of its committees’ ( Indemnität ). Paragraphs (2) and (4) of Article 46 lay down rules on parliamentary immunity. The law further stipulates that a Member ‘may not be called to account or arrested for a punishable offence without permission of the Bundestag’. The fact that point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 9 of the Protocol refers to the immunities accorded to members of the national parliaments does not preclude the European Parliament from creating rules of its own, a kind of case law whose effect is to develop a coherent concept of European parliamentary immunity which is by definition separate from the national parliaments’ respective practices. Through the application of these principles, a consistent line has emerged in Parliament’s decisions, which has become a fundamental criterion when considering the action to be taken in response to individual requests for immunity: in every case in which the acts of which the Member of the European Parliament is accused fall within the scope of his political activities, immunity is not waived. This criterion is applied in conjunction with other considerations which may militate for or against waiver of immunity, particularly in the case of fumus persecutionis , in other words a suspicion that the criminal proceedings have been brought simply to damage the Member of Parliament as a politician. By the same token, as the Court of First Instance held in Case T-345/05 Mote v. European Parliament [2008] ECR II-2849 , ‘ The objective of Article 10 of the Protocol is ... to safeguard the independence of Members by ensuring that pressure, in the form of threats of arrest or legal proceedings, is not brought to bear on them during the sessions of the Parliament.’ (paragraph 50) The facts According to the letter from the German Public Prosecutor, Mr Brok failed to include a fee of EUR 5 000 for a speech (for which tax was due on EUR 2 900) in his income tax declaration for 2005 and this omission may constitute an offence under