form an inalienable, indivisible and integral part of universal human rights; 8. Points out that it is still essential to pursue the current roadmap’s six priority areas of action, and calls on the Commission to introduce further concrete measures in order to ensure that the strengths of the existing roadmap can be further developed and thus visibly influence national and regional level instruments for achieving equality and women’s empowerment; 9. Proposes that European funding should be granted for the new strategy for equality between women and men in order to facilitate its execution at European level; 10. Maintains that the Council, after consulting Parliament, has to adopt the Commission’s proposed new gender equality strategy so as to give it greater political weight and provide fresh impetus for gender equality policy; 11. Deplores the unsatisfactory way in which the gender perspective has been handled in the Commission’s EU 2020 strategy proposals, and therefore calls on the Council and the Commission to ensure that the gender equality dimension is systematically presented in the EU 2020 strategy, including a specific gender chapter, mechanisms for gender mainstreaming and targets for female employment coupled with indicators of economic independence, and taking into account both the effects of the current social and economic crisis on women and the role of women in an ageing society; 12. Proposes that the Council, the Commission, and Parliament hold an annual tripartite meeting to review progress on the EU gender equality strategy; 13. Maintains that a conference on gender equality, attended by women’s organisations, trade unions from the Member States, Members of the European Parliament, the Commission, the Council and the national parliaments, should be held annually, focusing on a predetermined theme each year; 14. Stresses the need for structured dialogue with civil society in order to ensure the principle of equality between women and men; 15. Suggests that institutional cooperation in this area not be limited to women’s associations, but that collaboration with associations representing men and women be actively sought; 16. Calls for the European Institute for Gender Equality to become fully operational without delay and for all the necessary gender indicators to be devised so that equality issues can be kept under review whenever they arise; insists that these indicators be regularly updated so that the objectives set can be brought into line with the results actually obtained; 17. Takes the view that, where the social impact of Commission and Council policy proposals has to be assessed, such assessment should cover gender equality; 18. Insists that the Commission should start practising the ‘gender mainstreaming’ method in the preparation of all its proposals; 19. Calls on the Commission to improve and update regularly its gender equality webpage, and on the Equal Opportunities Group to devote at least one of its meetings each year entirely to gender equality and to set up an information service for women; 20. Maintains that the Commission’s directorates-general need to incorporate strengthened coordination machinery into their internal operation in order to provide continuous follow-up to gender equality and equal opportunities policies spanning many different areas; calls