for refusing to attend or to give evidence before the committee. 21) The committee has no investigative powers similar to the Courts in connection with national administrations or when an administrative or private body refuses to deliver documentation to the committee. Neither does it have the possibility to ask a national Court for assistance in the course of its investigation. This situation has prompted the committee to evaluate the situation, leading it to request from the Policy department information on what is at the present time the situation in a number of National Parliaments The information was provided by the correspondents of the European Centre for Parliamentary Research and Documentation (ECPRD). . Attached to this Part there is an Annex with an overview on several questions of interest for this committee of inquiry with a view to putting forward a number of suggestions to Parliament. The overall finding is that National Parliaments are much better prepared than 10 years ago and that they are much better equipped for undertaking inquiries than the EP. 22). In order to gather comparative information concerning the setting up and working procedures of the committees of inquiry of national parliaments of the Member States, data collected from 15 Member States and Switzerland in 2003 was evaluated. With respect to the setting up of committees of inquiry in national Parliaments and their working procedures, the majority of Member States (except for the House of Commons of the United Kingdom) have a constitutional system that provides for Parliamentary Committees of Inquiry (PCIs). It should be noted, however, that some of the British Select Committees (both in the House of Commons and the House of Lords) have procedures similar to those of PCIs in other countries, but they have an open-ended mandate and a permanent catalogue of duties (e.g., scrutiny of EU legislation). In these countries there is a legal framework for the creation of PCIs. This includes provisions either in the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, or ordinary law. In some countries the legal bases encompass all three levels, whereas in others the relevant provisions can be found in just one or two of the categories mentioned above. 23). The main purpose of PCIs in most systems is supervising the actions of the government or the administration. In some states PCIs have the additional duty to ensure respect of the Constitution or other legal provisions. 24). In most Member States PCIs have investigative powers similar to those of the courts but to a lesser extent. In some cases (Finland, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, UK House of Lords) PCIs have powers similar to those of other parliamentary committees. At the end of the mandate of PCIs there are usually political consequences and sometimes judicial acts or procedures as well. 25). The comparative study indicates that in all Member States which have a legal basis for PCIs (except Finland) there is the possibility for these committees to summon witnesses such as heads of public bodies or other citizens to give evidence. In case of non-compliance with an invitation to