The rapporteur would also like to give the Commission representations and the Parliament information offices in the Member States, as well as the Commission information networks, such as Europe Direct and Citizen Signpost Service, a permanent role in providing citizens with all necessary information regarding the citizens´ initiative. According to the rapporteur, the minimum age for signatories should be 16 instead of 18. Active citizenship, social inclusion and solidarity of young people are crucial for the future Europe. Legally, young people come of age when they turn 18. Despite the fact that the citizens´ initiative does not have a direct effect, it may create a trans-European debate and finally dynamise the impetus of legislative decisions. Moreover, linking the minimum age to national voting age requirements is likely to create inequality, due to differences in national requirements. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Culture and Education calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3a) It is necessary to organise efficient publicity campaigns, in order to raise awareness of the European citizens' initiative, to promote civil dialogue and to build a genuine European public space; in this context, communication activities and information campaigns have an important role to play. Therefore, the Commission should consider using the existing programmes which promote mobility and active citizenship and new forms of communication, such as social networking, which promote public debate. Justification Efficient communication on the citizens' initiative is crucial. The existing programmes which promote mobility (such as the Lifelong Learning and Youth in Action programmes) and active citizenship (the Europe for Citizens programme), as well as European Year for Volunteering 2011 can be useful in this context. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3b) The European Commission representations and the European Parliament's information offices in the Member States, together with the Commission's information networks, should play a permanent role in the provision to citizens of all necessary information regarding the citizens´ initiative. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5) It is necessary to establish the minimum number of Member States from which citizens must come. In order to ensure that a citizens' initiative is representative of a Union interest, this number should be set at one third of Member States. (5) It is necessary to establish the minimum number of Member States from which citizens must come. In order to ensure that a citizens' initiative is representative of a Union interest, this number should be set at one quarter of Member States. Justification The citizens' initiative should be accessible to citizens, and the threshold for support should therefore not be set too high. The requirement of one quarter of Member States (i.e. 7 of the current number of 27 EU Member States) is an amply sufficient expression of a common EU interest. At the same time, it is in line with other provisions