1 December 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Francis Wurtz on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group on the progress report on the Intergovernmental Conference European Parliament resolution on the progress report on the Intergovernmental Conference The European Parliament , – having regard to the Naples Conclave, held on 28 and 29 November 2003 as part of the Intergovernmental Conference (IGC), – having regard to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure, 1. Notes the failure to reach agreement at the meeting of Foreign Ministers held in Naples on 28 and 29 November, which has once again highlighted the major differences of opinion between the Member States, in particular on the method for calculation of the qualified majority within the Council and the composition of the Commission; 2. Deplores the fact that the summit dealt primarily with institutional matters despite the fact that some Member States had made proposals on non-institutional issues; calls for a fundamental revision of the articles of the draft Constitution relating to economic and monetary, social and competition policies, which are based on the principle of the open market economy and free competition; 3. Is concerned at the pressure still being brought to bear by some countries to include a reference to Christian values in the preamble to the Constitution; calls on the IGC to reject this request, which constitutes an attack on secularism; 4. Is concerned at the Conclave's declared intention of giving the Union the means to conduct independent military operations complementary to those of NATO and at the compromise which was apparently reached at the Conclave on structured cooperation on defence matters and the mutual defence clause; deplores the view of European security policy based on a military approach in close cooperation with NATO and on an increase in the military budgets of the Member States; 5. Rejects the use of war as a means of settling international disputes, and considers that EU security policy should be based on conflict prevention and the peaceful settlement of disputes, with due respect for international law and the principles of the UN Charter; 6. Calls for the Commission to be composed of one Commissioner per Member State, with the right to vote; 7. Welcomes the amendments which are likely to be made to the draft Convention regarding the principle of gender equality and respect for the rights of people belonging to minority groups; 8. Calls for the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be improved in such a way as to strengthen workers' rights (in particular by recognising the right to work and the right to a fair income), guarantee women's rights and provide for equal treatment for non-Community nationals; 9. Calls for full recognition of public services, which should be exempted from competition rules; 10. Reaffirms its rejection of any challenges to its budgetary powers, such as that proposed by the ECOFIN Council; 11. Considers that the aims and tasks of the European Central Bank should be revised in order to make them