mines in the Member States. Currently, 11 Member States make use of this regulation. Major European coal producers have been involved in the EU's efforts aimed at developing cleaner and more sustainable methods of energy production. Besides the participation of a number of European coal producers and their associations in various forms of formal or ad-hoc stakeholder dialogues on the subject, many European coal mining businesses participate in concrete projects sponsored by the EU through existing programmes and schemes of research and development support. In the past, this has been the case, for instance, with the fourth and fifth framework programmes for research as well as the Carnot programme and the research and development scheme of the European Coal and Steel Community. At present, this is mainly the case with the seventh framework programme for research and the Research Fund for Coal and Steel. The Commission is particularly interested in involving interested participants from Member States that joined the European Union in 2004 and 2007 in the activities and projects undertaken within these schemes. For example, officials from the Research Fund for Coal and Steel programme recently visited Romania (September 2006) and Bulgaria (January 2007) where they held information workshops with interested stakeholders in both countries. As also stated in the Commission communication on sustainable power generation from fossil fuels of January 2007 and as confirmed by the Presidency conclusions of the European Council of March 2007, the Commission is interested in seeing up to 12 large-scale demonstration projects in zero-emission power generation from fossil fuels becoming operational by 2015. This follows a statement to this effect made in autumn 2006 by the European energy industry that gathered at the ‘Zero-emission power plant technology platform’. The Commission is now in active dialogue with the energy industry, the technology platform and the Member States to establish a mechanism that stimulates their construction and operation.