Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (22 January 2007) 1. The Commission is aware of the public announcement made by Volkswagen to restructure the Brussels site located in Forest/Vorst, including the delocalisation of the production of the Golf model to two sites in Germany. The Commission immediately reacted to this announcement and met with the Belgian authorities in order to discuss measures to alleviate the consequences for the workers concerned and their families at Volkswagen and in other enterprises, but also for the area affected. 2. The European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund are the main Community instruments that can help to respond to the impact of large-scale redundancies in the context of corporate restructuring. These funds under the current programming period and the new programming period starting from 2007 allow for active measures to be taken by the Member States. The Commission is in close contact with the Belgian authorities to see whether the programmes can be re-oriented to address recent developments and to see how this situation can be taken into account in programming for the period 2007‑13. 3. The Commission has emphasised the importance of complying with social dialogue rules. This includes the directives concerning the European Works Councils Council Directive 97/74/EC of 15 December 1997 extending, to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Directive 94/45/EC on the establishment of a European Works Council or a procedure in Community-scale undertakings and Community-scale groups of undertakings for the purposes of informing and consulting employees, OJ L 10, 16.1.1998. , collective redundancies and information and consultation of employees. The Commission also stresses the need to ensure the practical implementation of the ‘Orientations for reference in managing change and its social consequences’ agreed by the social partners at the European level in 2003. It is, however, incumbent upon the Member States to ensure the effective implementation of the legal rules on information and consultation set by European legislation. Workers' representatives should take the initiative to bring this matter to the attention of the competent jurisdictions if they believe their rights have been breached. The Commission is not aware of any such initiative. It notes that the management of the Volkswagen Group is now in the process of informing and consulting the European Works Council on the planned restructuring operation.