for translating Council resolutions into policy initiatives. Questions on the European Space Policy and how to bring space down to earth will be put to both the Council and Commission. Convention on cluster munitions - questions to the Council In Dublin, at the end of the international meeting of States held on 19-30 May 2008, 107 States adopted the Convention on Cluster munitions, which bans the use, production, transfer and stockpiling of this class of weaponry. The Convention will be opened for signature on 3 December 2008, in Oslo. It will enter into force six months after 30 States have deposited their instruments of ratification with the UN Secretary General. The Council will be asked what have they taken to convince all States - in particular those who are Member States of the European Union - to sign, ratify and immediately implement the Convention on Cluster munitions? Minimum criteria for environmental inspection in the Member States - questions to the Commission Miroslav OUZKÝ (EPP-ED, CZ), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, will be asking the Commission questions on the review of Recommendation 2001/331/EC providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the Member States. Carbon capture and storage technology needs prompt and direct financial commitment Christian EHLER (EPP-ED, GER) is tabling an own-initiative report, supporting early demonstration of sustainable power generation from fossil fuels, but warns that the measures unveiled by the Commission are "not sufficient to provide the desired incentives". The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy calls for a direct financial commitment to ensure that 12 demonstration projects testing the permanent underground storage of CO2 are constructed by 2015. Languages used by the Council Presidencies - Support for German The report endorses the conclusions of the Ombudsman on the complaint by an association for the defence of the German language who asked the Dutch and the Luxembourg governments to offer the websites of their respective Presidencies not only in English and French but also in German. The report calls upon the Council to examine the question of the language options of the website of its Presidencies, in order to ensure that the entire population of the EU has easy access to information. The future of social security systems The increasing ageing population will affect social security systems. In this own-initiative report, MEPs in the Employment Committee express their preoccupation with maintaining the core of European social models. Encouraging higher employment rates are among the recommendations of the report. Social security systems under pressure: The ageing population is expected to lead to increases in public spending, most of it for pensions, health care and long-term care, in most Member States by 2050 if current policies are pursued. Protecting the consumer: improving consumer education and awareness on credit and finance MEPs will hear an own-initiative report drafted by Iliana IOTOVA (PES, BG) on protecting the consumer: improving consumer education and awareness on credit and finance. Overall, the report welcomes the Commission initiatives to educate consumers on finance and credit because "empowered and educated consumers help