Answer given by Mr Mandelson on behalf of the Commission (27 April 2005) The Commission is aware of the challenges that the European furniture industry is facing and will continue to face in the coming years. Whilst it is the primary responsibility of enterprises to meet these challenges, the role of public authorities is to establish and preserve favourable framework conditions in which the furniture sector – like other sectors – can develop and enjoy the opportunity to compete, domestically and internationally, on an equitable basis. Research, innovation, training, access to markets and protection of intellectual property rights are crucial for the competitiveness of the EU furniture sector. The industrial policy of the EU focuses on initiatives in these areas and they were also discussed in the Conference on ‘The Future of the Furniture Industry in an Enlarged Europe’ organised by the Commission on 25 February 2005. The Commission will pursue these discussions with the social partners of the sector in order to assess the implementation of industrial policy in the furniture sector and to examine further initiatives that the social partners may identify. Furthermore, the Commission has been in touch with the Spanish industry on potential dumping problems in this sector, and has already indicated its readiness to pursue the matter in the context of EU anti-dumping legislation, should the industry present sufficient evidence that injurious dumping is taking place. Besides, in view of the anti-dumping measures taken in the United States and their possible spill-over effects in terms of trade diversion to the EU, the Commission has offered to discuss the matter in detail with the industry to examine avenues of action. Until now the Spanish furniture industry did not take up any of these possibilities. It goes without saying that the Commission remains at the industry's disposal to answer any technical questions that industry may have and examine possible actions to be undertaken in the area of trade defence instruments. As regards the protection of intellectual property, it is worth noting that the new or original appearance of an article, such as furniture, can be protected through design rights. In the EU the best available protection is the Community Design. Community Designs registered by the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM) in Alicante/Spain will enjoy protection in all twenty-five Member States up to 25 years. The procedure is simple and inexpensive. Under EU legislation, unregistered designs are also protected for a period of three years. As it is the case for any other industrial property right, it will be up to the right holder to take action when his design right is infringed. In support of right holders seeking to protect their valuable intellectual property, the EU has recently enacted two important legislative instruments: the EU Enforcement Directive No 2004/48/EC Directive 2004/48/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the enforcement of intellectual property rights, OJ L 157, 30.4.2004 and Council Regulation No 1383/2003 Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 of 22 July 2003 concerning customs action against goods suspected of infringing certain