office she would leave to a fellow Commissioner any investigations into particular companies in which she had been involved during the period concerned. In reply to a question by Pervenche BERÈS (PES, FR) as to whether she saw herself as the best person, with the necessary authority and legitimacy, to take any difficult decisions, Mrs Kroes said she had a lot of knowledge which would enable her to take the right decisions and that she was absolutely " honest and deeply committed to do what you ask of me ". Mrs Kroes also agreed to a request by Ian HUDGHTON (Greens/EFA, UK) to publish the opinion of the Commission's legal service on the possibility of conflicts of interest. Erik MEIJER (GUE/NGL, NL) referred to accusations that Mrs Kroes, while chair of a Dutch consortium for the sale of frigates to Abu Dhabi, had forwarded a letter by a friendly business contact proposing the evasion of taxes and the infringement of international agreements. He also pointed out that in her dealings with a Rotterdam tanker cleaning company, while Dutch minister of transport, she had been deemed in a report by Dutch parliament to have acted "negligently and reprehensibly" . He went on to ask if it wouldn't be wise to withdraw her candidacy. Mrs Kroes replied she was happy to be provided at last with the opportunity to clarify these matters. In the matter of the frigates, she denied she was guilty of any illegal practice and said that the letters had been interpreted wrongly. As regards the tanker cleaning company, she explained that the Dutch government at the time did not have the legal means to refuse a licence ex-ante, but that she had given only a temporary licence, which provided for controls. The public prosecutor himself had dismissed the case. Hans BLOKLAND (IND/DEM, NL) wanted to know which Commissioner(s) would deal with cases she would have to leave to others and if such Commissioners should undergo security screening. Mrs Kroes answered that it was up to Mr Barroso to decide which Commissioner should take on a particular case and that if he decided that Commissioners needed to undergo security screening, she would fully cooperate. In answer to questions by Paul VAN BUITENEN (Greens/EFA, NL) and Hans-Peter MARTIN (NA, AT) she denied vehemently several allegations made by the former. Firstly, Mr van Buitenen accused her of "facilitating bribes" in Indonesia in the interests of a Dutch company called Stork and of receiving a commission of 75,000 Dutch guilders for this during her period as a member of the Dutch government. Secondly, he alleged that she had imposed her friend Mr Van Caldenborgh as a business partner on the deal for the delivery of six frigates to the United Arab Emirates. Lastly, he suggested that, against official warnings, she had provided criminals with state subsidies for a tanker cleaning facility in Rotterdam harbour. The Commissioner-designate replied that Mr Van Buitenen's allegations were "unfounded and nonsensical" , emphasising that she had never taken any bribes and would never do so. She also pointed out