Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (7 March 2011) The Commission is aware of the measures adopted by Spain in 2010 in view of reducing pharmaceutical expenditure by the national health insurance system. In accordance with Article 11 of Directive 89/105/EEC Council Directive 89/105/EEC of 21 December 1988 relating to the transparency of measures regulating the prices of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in the scope of national health insurance systems (OJ L 40, 11.2.1989). , Royal Decree-Law 4/2010 of 26 March 2010 was communicated to the Commission by the Spanish Government on 23 April 2010. The Commission does not have any indication that the Royal Decree-Law contains provisions that are incompatible with the provisions of Directive 89/105/EEC. It has not received any complaint in this respect requiring legal investigation under Article 258 the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). It also recalls that, in cases where national legislation might not comply with the obligations of the directive, the national provisions in question may be challenged by affected parties before the national courts. Furthermore, pursuant to Article 168(7) TFEU, the Union must respect the responsibilities of the Member States for the definition of their health policy and for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care. These responsibilities include the management of health services and medical care and the allocation of the resources assigned to them. Consequently, the Commission is not in a position to comment the choices made by national governments with respect to their pharmaceutical pricing policies. The Commission is fully aware of the challenges linked to the financing of medicinal products, including the potential impact of price reductions on the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry, in particular in times of economic downturn. In this context, it draws attention to the conclusions of the Pharmaceutical Forum endorsed by Member States and pharmaceutical stakeholders in October 2008. These provide a series of recommendations to ensure that pricing and reimbursement policies achieve the common goals of timely and equitable access to medicines for European patients, control of pharmaceutical expenditure and reward for innovation http://ec.europa.eu/pharmaforum/docs/final_conclusions_en.pdf .