Answer given by Mr Figel’ on behalf of the Commission (18 January 2006) The Commission would like to assure the Honourable Member that the Commission remains as committed as ever to the principle of multilingualism. According to Article 1 of Regulation No 1/1958 of the Council Regulation No 1/1958, OJ P 17, 6.10.1958, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 920/2005 of 13 June 2005 amending Regulation No 1 of 15 April 1958 determining the language to be used by the European Economic Community and Regulation No 1 of 15 April 1958 determining the language to be used by the European Atomic Energy Community and introducing temporary derogation measures from those regulations, OJ L 156, 18.6.2005. , all official EU languages are to be treated on an equal basis as far as the publication of legislation and other documents of general application is concerned. This means that Spanish has the same status as any other official language. Moreover, no translator will lose his or her job. There will be no disadvantages for the translators concerned with respect to grade, salary, career development or any other similar aspects. The principle of multilingualism is not linked to the number of speakers of a language, but is a democratic necessity: citizens of the EU must be able to read documents that directly apply to them in the official language of their country, whether they have 40 million or 400000 native speakers. It is therefore logical that Spanish, Slovak, Dutch, Swedish and all the other official languages are treated equally. As the Honourable Member is no doubt aware, the 2004 enlargement was an unprecedented challenge for the translation services of the EU, in particular that of the Commission. Faced with a severe lack of translation capacity in the new languages, drastic measures had to be taken. These measures consisted of decreasing demand and increasing translation capacity See communication from Vice-President Kinnock — Matching supply and demand for translation, SEC(2004)638/6. , so as to ensure that the Commission would be able to fulfil its legal obligation of translating legislation and politically important documents into all official languages. The human resources strategy of the Commission’s Directorate-General for Translation is an internal management tool which aims to make the most efficient use of existing resources. Translating staff will be used intelligently to respond to new and growing demand in other linguistic areas, such as web translation, editing, and in general reinforcing multilingualism in all aspects of the Commission’s activities. The EU attaches great importance to linguistic rights and to linguistic diversity, as can be illustrated by the fact that both the Council and the Commission have recently agreed to conclude an administrative arrangement with the Spanish Authorities, which enables native speakers of Catalan, Basque and Galician to correspond with the EU in their language and to read co-decision documents in that language. The Commission has thus shown its willingness to go even further than its formal obligations under EU law. The Commission does and will always provide the Spanish translation, and indeed the translation in all other official