EUR 9 185 million, Mediterranean countries: Mediterranean countries: EUR 6 520 million, EUR 6 520 million, Latin America and Asia: Latin America and Asia: EUR 2 480 million, EUR 2 480 million, Republic of South Africa: Republic of South Africa: EUR 825 million, EUR 825 million, Special action supporting the consolidation and intensification of the EC-Turkey Customs Union: Special action supporting the consolidation and intensification of the EC-Turkey Customs Union: EUR 450 million, EUR 450 million, Russia and Western New Independent States (WNIS): Russia and the Western New Independent States (WNIS): EUR 300 million ; EUR 800 million; and shall be used by 31 January 2007 at the latest. The credits already signed shall be taken into account as a deduction from the regional ceilings. However, the effectiveness of the ceiling for Russia and the Western New Independent States (WNIS) shall be subject to these countries fulfilling specific conditions laid down by the Commission in accordance with the Commission communication “Wider Europe – Neighbourhood: A New Framework for Relations with our Eastern and Southern Neighbours”. The Commission shall authorise the release of the ceiling for Russia and the WNIS on a country by country basis. Nevertheless, concerning Russia, projects fulfilling the criteria specified in Article 2(3) of Council Decision 2001/777/EC shall be eligible as soon as the EUR 100 million ceiling of the Decision has been reached.” and shall be used by 31 January 2007 at the latest. The credits already signed shall be taken into account as a deduction from the regional ceilings. However, the effectiveness of the ceiling for Russia and the Western New Independent States (WNIS) shall be subject to these countries fulfilling specific conditions laid down by the Commission in accordance with the Commission communication “Wider Europe – Neighbourhood: A New Framework for Relations with our Eastern and Southern Neighbours”. The Commission shall authorise the release of the ceiling for Russia and the WNIS on a country by country basis. Nevertheless, concerning Russia, projects fulfilling the criteria specified in Article 2(3) of Council Decision 2001/777/EC shall be eligible as soon as the EUR 100 million ceiling of the Decision has been reached.” Justification The extra EUR 500 million proposed for Russia and the Western New Independent States can be found through a technical operation involving a change of the guarantee rate on these loans from 100% to 65%. In practical terms, this hardly increases the risk, since the Guarantee Fund is currently over-provisioned. Amendment 7 ARTICLE 1, POINT (1), POINT b)A (new) Article 1, paragraph 3a (new) (decision 2000/24/CE) (ba) Paragraph (3a) is added: "3a. The EIB is invited to prepare feasibility studies on the inclusion in the mandate, as from 2007, of countries of the South Caucasus and Central Asia regions." EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Context 1. The Commission proposes adjustments to the EIB's external lending mandate (EIB loans guaranteed through the guarantee mechanism), so as to take account of the Wider Europe - New Neighbourhood policy (it should be noted that the terminology should be changed to the European Neighbourhood Policy. 2. The general external lending mandate of