Question for written answer P-003550/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Maria do Céu Patrão Neves (PPE) (11 April 2011) Subject: Agricultural negotiations in the context of the EU‑Mercosur agreement It is well-known that circumstances including an increase in factors of production, price volatility, and a faulty distribution of profits across the agri-food chain have led to a severe fall in farmers' incomes in the EU, resulting in many giving up farming and thus jeopardising the Union's self- sufficiency in food. In this context, the EU‑Mercosur negotiations for a free trade area appear as an additional cause for concern. At present, the EU's imports of agricultural products from Mercosur amount to approximately EUR 19 billion, the figure for exports being 1 billion. The Union appears to be more interested in promoting the goods and services it exports than in the consequences of its high level of imports of agricultural products. Given these circumstances, it is probable that the acceleration of these negotiations will place the EU's agriculture in an extremely vulnerable position. In the case of meat production, in particular, 80 % of the EU's imports are from Mercosur. However, these imports do not have to comply with the requirements laid down in the EU legislation concerning the environment, GMOs, use of hormones, animal welfare or plant health products — factors which weigh heavily on producer prices. Studies have suggested that the agreement will result in a 30 % drop in meat production in the Union, involving losses in the region of EUR 9 billion. This will be particularly damaging to small farms of the type which dominate in Portugal, and even more so for farmers in the most remote regions such as the Azores, given their specific problems of additional costs in terms of transport and means of production, the lack of farming alternatives and the adverse socioeconomic repercussions of impoverishment among farmers. Has the Commission carried out a study of the impact of the agreement now being negotiated on the less-favoured regions and sectors affected? Will there be compensatory measures for those sectors and/or regions likely to suffer from the agreement? Which of the products concerned appear on the EU's list of sensitive products? What concrete results have emerged from the negotiating rounds to date? Is the Commission aware of the probable adverse consequences for meat production in Portugal, and especially the Azores? What steps will it take to intervene?