Answer given by Mr Kinnock on behalf of the Commission (19 November 2004) The answer to the question of the Honourable Member relates only to the Commission because the Commission plainly has no responsibility for recruitment in the other Institutions. The Honourable Member appears to be the victim of a misunderstanding about the reserve lists for translators in the EU-15 official languages. She can be certain that all reserve lists for which the Commission has responsibility were prolonged without exception. Contrary to the information the Honourable Member seems to have received, the successful candidates in the relevant competitions were informed by the Commission that the validity of their respective lists had been extended and that they would remain on these lists. 1. There are 741 Portuguese officials in the Commission. This represents 3.7% of the total (i.e. measured over a total figure of 19.878 Commission officials as of October). The specifics of Portuguese officials by Service, and of all Commission officials by nationality, are provided in the table which is directly sent to the Honourable Member and to the Parliament’s secretariat. 2. In addition to the above, there are 34 Portuguese temporary staff and 87 Portuguese external staff. The table referred to above provides a breakdown by Service. 3. ‘Other servants’ are defined as including temporary agents, auxiliary agents and contractual agents. As the Honourable Member can see from the above figures, no preference is given by the Commission to the use of other servants. Such personnel are only recruited under specific and transparent conditions. Temporary agents may be recruited to a post (temporary or permanent) authorised in the Institution’s staff table. Temporary posts are limited in numbers and, by definition, are to be occupied by qualified people employed under time limited arrangements who are recruited through via an external selection procedure. Permanent posts provide for the recruitment of officials but, exceptionally, may be occupied by temporary agents. This usually arises where no reserve lists of successful candidates are available or where existing reserves do not contain successful candidates possessing the required profile. Such posts may also be used for the recruitment of specialists or to meet temporary needs. The Commission insists, wherever possible, that such posts are used for the recruitment of officials. Consistent with that, the Commission has recently decided that only a maximum of 4% of permanent posts may be used for the recruitment of temporary agents. It should be noted that a large proportion of these possibilities has been used for the recruitment of nationals of new Member States whilst awaiting the results of the current series of external competitions. Auxiliary and contractual agents are recruited on the basis of credits allocated in the annual budget. The contracts that may be offered are limited in time and depend continuously on the availability of sufficient credits. Such possibilities are not appropriate for the recruitment of successful candidates from competitions. 4. Temporary agents to be recruited must possess the same educational/training qualifications and professional experience as the equivalent official. They are also subject to the obligations of impartiality, integrity and