Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (19 June 2007) The Commission is aware of the negative consequences the closure of a plant can entail for the workers concerned, their families and the region where it is situated. However, the Commission has no authority to prevent and defer the decisions of individual companies. Companies are under no obligation to inform the Commission of their decision. The Commission cannot interfere in a company's decision, unless that decision violates Community law. The Spanish authorities have informed the Commission that ‘Delphi Automotive System España SA’ has received the following aid through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF): — EUR 14,339,728 from the Community support framework 2000‑06 (through the Operational Programmes of ‘Competitividad y Mejora del Tejido Productivo’ and ‘Integrado de Andalucía’); — EUR 2,841,355 from the Community support framework 1994-1999 (through the Operational Programme of ‘Incentivos Regionales’). ‘Delphi Automotive System España SA’ has not received any direct subsidy from the European Social Fund. The aid beneficiary is located in Andalucia, an assisted region under the regional aid map 2000‑06 for Spain State aid N 773/99 — Spain: ‘Mapa de ayudas de finalidad regional para el período 2000‑06’. . The company has received the abovementioned aid through an existing aid scheme approved under the Guidelines on national regional aid Information from the Commission-Guidelines on national regional aid, OJ C 74, 10.3.1998. . The Commission has sent a request to the Spanish authorities in order to clarify whether any other aid has been awarded to the company. As regards potential recovery, the Commission reminds the Honourable Member that, according to the general rules, national authorities are competent for the management of Structural Funds programmes and financial contributions. As regards the financial support that Spain has granted to Delphi in the form of state aid, the Spanish authorities have informed the Commission that, in addition to some public aid to specific R & D projects under approved state aid schemes Plan de Actuación Tecnológico e Industrial (N 715/93); Programas Nacionales de las Areas Científico Tecnológica del PROFIT (N276/2000); Plan Nacional de Investigación Científica, Desarrollo e Innovación Tecnológica 2004-2007 (N 605/2003). , on 17 October 2006 the company was granted a subsidy of EUR 4.26 million by the Consejería de Innovación, Ciencia y Empresa of the Junta de Andalucía This aid was granted further to the approved scheme N 442/99- Régimen de ayudas a la Inversión y a la Investigación y el Desarrollo en Andalucía. , for an investment project to be implemented before 30 May 2006. However, since Delphi has so far not justified the implementation of the project in question, the corresponding aid has not been paid out to the company. Under the abovementioned Guidelines on national regional aid, aid for initial investments or for job creation must be made conditional on the maintenance of the investment in question for a minimum period of five years. If this condition is not respected, the national authorities shall bear the initial responsibility for investigating this matter and, on the basis of evidence on the conditions of