issues and keeping stability in the world; whereas there is no common approach to the solution of Syria and Iran crises; M. whereas there is progress in EU-Russia cooperation, including the agreement with the Russian government to implement the phase out of Siberian overflight duties and Local Border Traffic in the Region of Kaliningrad Oblast; N. whereas it is important for the EU to speak with one voice, show solidarity and display unity in its relations with the Russian Federation; O. whereas in the Joint Statement on the Partnership for Modernisation (PfM) the EU and Russia stated that their developing relationship is based on a deep commitment to democratic principles, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law; whereas the PfM should serve as an integral part of a new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement; 1. Stresses that the future development of EU-Russia relations will be dependent on the efforts to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights in Russia; 2. Calls on Russia to fulfil its obligations in the field of human rights and rule of law as a member of the Council of Europe and Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and signatory to numerous international treaties, including the European Convention of Human Rights, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; 3. Expresses its profound disappointment with the conduct of the 4 December Duma elections, marred with frequent violations; strongly condemns mass arrests and beatings by the police during peaceful demonstrations in Moscow, St Petersburg and other Russian cities against Duma elections violations; calls on Russian authorities to permit a peaceful demonstration calling for free and fair presidential elections and respect for the rule of law; 4. Urges Russia to allow for a competitive, democratic campaign and free and fair presidential elections on 4 March 2012; calls on Russian authorities to review of the decision not to allow opposition candidates Grigori Yavlinsky and Dmitry Mezentzev to take part in presidential elections; calls on Russia for profound and serious reforms towards democratisation; 5. Reiterates the fact that since taking power in Russia by Prime Minister Vladimir Putin, no elections in this country were recognized by Western observers as free and democratic; 6. Calls on the HR/VP and the Commission for consistent and deep support for civil society activists and representatives of new grassroots social movement against undemocratic practices of the Russian authorities; calls on the EU for constant advocacy towards Russian authorities to meet the OSCE standards of human rights, democracy and rule of law; 7. Calls on Russian authorities to press ahead with the investigation of the death of journalist Khadzhimurad Kamalov; reiterates its call on the Russian judicial authorities to fair explanation and punishment of those who were involved in the murder of Sergey Magnitsky, Anna Politkovskaya and other representatives of civil society; 8. Calls for the EU to adopt Foreign Affairs Council (FAC) conclusions on human rights in Russia that would highlight the EU’s concern about the persistently