Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (11 October 2007) On the basis of the information transmitted by the Honourable Member, the cases of possible discrimination against recipients of restaurant and shop services in Cyprus appear to have been caused by the behaviour of private service providers. According to the case-law of the EC Court of Justice (ECJ), the freedom to provide services, as enshrined in Article 49 of the EC Treaty, guarantees the rights of recipients of services not to be made subject to discriminatory treatment based on their nationality or place of residence. However, the Commission regrets to inform the Honourable Member that it is not competent to take action against private undertakings on the basis of its authority to monitor the application of EC law based on Article 226 of the EC Treaty. Therefore, it cannot directly intervene in cases such as those that the Honourable Member has brought to its attention. Article 49 of the EC Treaty is of direct effect in the national legal orders and citizens having been affected by the described practice are entitled to rely on this provision before national judges and authorities. However, to date, the ECJ has had the opportunity of recognising the applicability of Article 49 of the EC Treaty to private parties only in relation to measures which, albeit not public in nature, are however designated to collectively regulate self-employment and the provision of services (for example, measures adopted by sporting associations or professional bodies) See ex multis, judgments of 12 December 1974, Walrave , Case 36-74 and of 19 February 2002, Wouters , Case C‑309/99. . Nevertheless, the Commission would like to inform the Honourable Member that in the future it will become easier to tackle discriminatory actions, including those of private service providers, on the basis of Directive 2006/123/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market (the ‘Services Directive’), which will have to be transposed by Member States by the end of 2009 OJ L 376, 27.12.2006. . According to its Article 20(2), Member States will have to ensure that the general conditions of access to a service, which are made available to the public at large by the provider, do not contain discriminatory provisions relating to the nationality or place of residence of the recipient. At the same time, as explicitly clarified in the same provision, service providers will have the possibility to demonstrate that different treatment is motivated by objective criteria and is, therefore, justified. The Commission is currently working with the Member States in order to make sure that the Services Directive, including the abovementioned provision, will be properly implemented in the national legal orders.