the Constitution of the United States.", " The case is one of a series of legal battles over the teaching of evolution in American public schools, and the first to be initiated by opponents of such teaching." ] ], [ "Town of Greece v. Galloway", [ "Town of Greece v. Galloway, 572 U.S. ___ (2014) , is a United States Supreme Court case in which the court decided that the Town of Greece, New York may permit volunteer chaplains to open each legislative session with a prayer.", " The plaintiffs were Susan Galloway and Linda Stephens, represented by Americans United for Separation of Church and State.", " They argue that the prayers violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.", " The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled against the town, and on May 20, 2013 the Supreme Court agreed to rule on the issue.", " On May 5, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in favor of the Town of Greece, and that the town's practice of beginning legislative sessions with prayers does not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment." ] ], [ "Epperson v. Arkansas", [ "Epperson v. Arkansas, 393 U.S. 97 (1968), was a United States Supreme Court case that invalidated an Arkansas statute that prohibited the teaching of human evolution in the public schools.", " The Court held that the First Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits a state from requiring, in the words of the majority opinion, \"that teaching and learning must be tailored to the principles or prohibitions of any religious sect or dogma.\"", " The Supreme Court declared the Arkansas statute unconstitutional because it violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.", " After this decision, some jurisdictions passed laws that required the teaching of creation science alongside evolution when evolution was taught.", " These were also ruled unconstitutional by the Court in the 1987 case \"Edwards v. Aguillard\"." ] ], [ "Edwards v. Aguillard", [ "Edwards v. Aguillard, 482 U.S. 578 (1987), was a United States Supreme Court case concerning the constitutionality of teaching creationism.", " The Court ruled that a Louisiana law requiring that where evolutionary science was taught in public schools, creation science must also be taught, violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment because the law was specifically intended to advance a particular religion.", " It also held that \"teaching a variety of scientific theories about the origins of humankind to school children might be validly done with the clear secular intent of enhancing the effectiveness of science instruction\"." ] ] ] }