that the further optimisation of purchasing and sales processes throughout the retail supply chain, from market research and product marketing to supplier relations, logistics and stock management, as well as the handling of faulty goods, consumer complaints and custom care, will improve competitiveness in the retail sector, drive down prices for consumers and improve service quality; 54. Encourages retailers and suppliers to actively engage in an open, constructive and continued dialogue to reach pragmatic solutions; invites Member States and EU institutions to actively support this process; 55. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission, and to the governments and parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT I. A vision for competitiveness, growth and jobs This report is about creating jobs by removing borders, barriers and burdens to trade in Europe. The retail sector is a pillar of the European economy ; a dynamic market that employs almost 20 million people, accounts for 4.2% of the EU’s GDP and represents 20% of Europe’s SMEs. Retailers are also service providers, at the cutting edge in new and diverse ways of shopping, such as direct selling, and offer easy access to labour markets. Although retail has performed comparatively well during the crisis, rising economic nationalism is complicating trade across the EU. Old obstacles remain, while new ones are created, affecting the business climate as well as investment and job creation by foreign retailers. The Rapporteur rings an alarm bell on protectionism and calls for political leadership to put the real economy back at the centre of the political agenda. The report is a call for action to open up to free movement and establishment across Europe, based on fair, balanced and transparent commercial relations and on sustainable consumption. Too often, new national barriers are raised to protect jobs and SMEs; instead, trade barriers in Europe should be removed to promote jobs and SMEs. Nonetheless, the legitimate concerns of people losing jobs and SMEs losing business have to be taken seriously at this time of public debt crisis. Dialogue must be intensified at all levels to improve understanding, restore confidence and address difficulties. The Rapporteur takes a clear non-regulatory line and gives specific input on other means to be explored before resorting to new regulation. To a large extent, appropriate rules exist but inadequate enforcement hinders free movement. The focus should be on enforcing and harmonising existing rules. Firm action is needed against national restrictions and any breach of the internal market rules, using all instruments available, notably competition law and infringement procedures. Actually, competition law, in particular with regard to abuse of dominant position and disloyal practices, is mainly applied to manufacturers and less to retailers. Infringement procedures are currently lengthy and obscure. The Commission is therefore asked to simplify procedures and introduce benchmarks, without prejudging rigorousness. II. The preparatory process: engaging the business community This report is action-oriented . The aim is to give concrete answers to concrete problems affecting retail operators. The Rapporteur focuses on what can be done at a European level to inject more efficiency