vehicle of categories M1 and class I of N1, as defined in Annex II to Directive 70/156/EEC Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers (OJ L 42, 23.2.1970, p. 1). Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/3/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 49, 19.2.2004, p. 36). ; i) "hydrofluorocarbon" means an organic compound consisting of carbon, hydrogen and fluorine where no more than six carbon atoms are contained in the molecule, whether isolated or in a mixture or preparation, and whether it is virgin, recovered, recycled or reclaimed; j) "perfluorocarbon" means an organic compound consisting solely of carbon and fluorine, and where no more than six carbon atoms are contained in the molecule, whether isolated or in a mixture or preparation, and whether it is virgin, recovered, recycled or reclaimed; k) "fluorinated greenhouse gases" means hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and preparations containing these substances except where the preparation is a controlled substance under Regulation (EC) No 2037/2000 or where the preparation has a global warming potential of less than 15; l) "global warming potential" means either the 100 year time horizon Global Warming Potential (GWP) published in the second assessment report adopted by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) or, where this value is not published in that report, a Global Warming Potential (GWP) determined in accordance with IPCC methodology; ( m ) "air conditioning systems containing fluorinated greenhouse gases with a global warming potential higher than 50 " means air conditioning systems that use hydrofluorocarbons the global warming potential of which exceeds 50 as specified in Annex I. Where applicable to motor vehicles, it refers to vehicle air conditioning systems designed to condition air in the passenger cabin that use hydrofluorocarbons the global warming potential of which exceeds 50 as specified in Annex I; ( n ) " technical aerosols" means aerosols used in maintenance, repair, cleaning, testing, disinfecting, manufacturing, installation and other applications where a non-flammable formulation is required for safety reasons, including silly string aerosols as referred to in the Annex to Directive 94/48/EC Directive 94/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 December 1994 amending for the 13th time Directive 76/769/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (OJ L 331, 21.12.1994, p. 7). ; o) "small-scale manufacturers" means manufacturers of vehicles who sell no more than 50 000 vehicles per calendar year in the European Union. Article 3 Prevention All measures that are technically and economically feasible shall be taken to prevent and minimise emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. Article 4 Containment 1. Owners and operators shall take all measures that are technically and economically feasible to prevent and minimise emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases. 2. Before putting refrigeration, air-conditioning and heat-pump systems into service, all components and the whole system shall undergo