Answer given by Mrs Kroes on behalf of the Commission (12 March 2009) The Commission understands the Honourable Member's concerns regarding the restrictions that Polish consumers face when they attempt to buy music tracks from the iTunes' online store. Apple's practices in relation to the iTunes service, and in particular the agreements Apple has concluded with the major recording companies for the licensing and distribution of music downloads from the iTunes online stores, have been the subject of an investigation by the Commission See IP/08/22, available at http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=IP/08/22&format=HTML&aged=0&language=EN&guiLanguage=en . The Commission’s antitrust proceedings allowed it to clarify that there is no prohibited agreement under Article 81 EC between Apple and the major recording companies regarding how the iTunes store is organised in Europe. As a result, Apple decides whether and when to open iTunes online stores in the new Member States. Autonomous decisions by dominant companies could be addressed under Article 82 EC which prohibits, as incompatible with the common market, any abuse of a dominant position by one or more undertakings, insofar as it may affect trade between Member States. However, according to the information available to the Commission, despite being the most popular online music provider in Europe, iTunes does not appear to have a dominant position within the meaning of Article 82 EC in the market for the distribution of music online. The Commission is in favour of solutions which allow consumers to buy from any online music store in the EU, irrespective of their place of residence. But it is aware that music licensing practices, the current copyright framework and different consumer protection laws might make it difficult to operate online stores accessible for a consumer anywhere in the EU. For this reason, the Member of the Commission responsible for Competition has started a constructive discussion with high level industry and consumer representatives on how existing barriers to cross-border online sales can be eliminated, which could be a basis for the development of European Economic Area-wide licensing models in a competitive framework which preserve the interests of consumers and all players involved. Furthermore, the internal market rules can also help removing barriers to cross-border services and fighting market segmentation. In particular Article 20 of the ‘Services Directive’ Directive 123/2006/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market, OJ L 376, 27.12.2006. , which will have to be implemented by end of 2009, requires both Member States and service providers not to discriminate against service recipients, including consumers, on grounds of their nationality or place of residence. This provision also clarifies that service providers may only apply different conditions of access to their services if these differences are directly justified by objective criteria. The Commission is currently working with Member States to ensure a timely and correct implementation of this provision and believes that, if properly implemented, the ‘Services Directive’ will prove to be an effective tool to tackle problems faced by consumers seeking to buy goods and services across the borders, including over the Internet.