its purpose being to provide objective, reliable and easily understandable information , including all recommendations to risk managers . Amendment 22 Recital 51 a (new) (51a) The Commission remains fully responsible for communicating risk management measures; the appropriate information should therefore be exchanged between the Authority and the Commission. Amendment 23 Recital 54 (54) The Authority should be financed by the Community budget. However, in the light of experience acquired, in particular with regard to the processing of authorisation dossiers presented by industry, the possibility of fees should be examined within three years after the entry into force of the Regulation. The Community budgetary procedure remains applicable as far as any subsidies chargeable to the general budget of the Communities are concerned; moreover, the auditing of accounts should be undertaken by the Court of Auditors. (54) The Authority should be financed by the Community budget. The Community budgetary procedure remains applicable as far as any subsidies chargeable to the general budget of the Communities are concerned; moreover, the auditing of accounts should be undertaken by the Court of Auditors. Amendment 24 Recital 56 (56) Recent food safety incidents have demonstrated the need to establish appropriate measures in emergency situations ensuring that all foods, whatever their type and origin, should be subject to common measures in the event of a serious risk to human health. Such a comprehensive approach to emergency food safety measures should allow effective action to be taken and avoid artificial disparities in the treatment of food representing a serious risk to human health. (56) Recent food safety incidents have demonstrated that the Commission has been unable to react in an effective and expedient manner and that there is a clear need to establish appropriate measures in emergency situations ensuring that all foods, whatever their type and origin, should be subject to common measures in the event of a risk to human health. Such a comprehensive approach to emergency food safety measures should facilitate effective action and avoid artificial disparities in the treatment of food representing a risk to human health. Amendment 25 Recital 57 (57) Recent food crises have also shown the benefits to the Commission of having properly adapted, more rapid procedures for crises management. These organisational procedures should make it possible to improve coordination of effort and to determine the most effective measures on the basis of the best scientific information; therefore, revised procedures should take into account the Authority's responsibilities and should provide for its scientific and technical assistance in the event of a food crisis. (57) Recent food crises have also shown the benefits to the Commission of having properly adapted, more rapid procedures for crises management. These organisational procedures should make it possible to improve coordination of effort and to determine the most effective measures on the basis of the best scientific information; therefore, revised procedures should take into account the Authority's responsibilities and should provide for its scientific and technical assistance in the form of advice in the event of a food crisis. Amendment 26 Article 1, paragraph 1 1. This Regulation provides