also, overlap each other. 2. Aditionally, even within the specific sphere of CFSP/ESDP, matters are further complicated by multiple sources of funding where some parts are financed from the general budget and others from the Member States. Also, the Council's budget is involved. In the rapporteur's view, it is necessary to obtain, for the budget 2007 procedure, an overall picture of which structures are currently involved with/financing CFSP/ESDP actions (including support structures such as the Council's planning-cells and relevant committees) The current situation Democratic scrutiny - unsatisfactory... 3. The European Parliament has modest political powers in the field of the CFSP/ESDP. It carries out a supervisory role through its right ‘to be informed’ and its right ‘to be consulted’ laid down by Article 21 of the Treaty on European Union. It should be pointed out that the duty of the Council to consult the EP on the "basic choices" of the CSFP has left a lot to be desired and its practice has come under heavy criticism for a number of years as, for example, the Council's annual report has been almost completely descriptive in nature. 4. In this respect, the rapporteur can only reconfirm the Parliament's rejection of the Council's "a posteriori" approach as regards this political consultation and strongly insist to fulfil the Parliament's rights under the Treaty. " The Presidency shall consult the European parliament on the main aspects and the basic choices of the common and security policy and ensure that the views of the European Parliament are duly taken into consideration....."(Article 21 TEU) 5. In the recent negotiations on the new IIA the Parliament succeeded in obtaining from Council a forward-looking (a-priori-approach) document "setting out the main aspects and basic choices of the CFSP" and an evaluation of the measures launched in the previous year. Within this current framework of cooperation with Council and Commission (build around the provisions of the new IIA) the rapporteur is of the opinion that this basis must be developed to enhance the Parliament's scrutiny role on policy matters. 6. Another important development to this end was the establishment of joint consultation meetings in the framework of political dialogue on CFSP. These are now to take place at least five times a year and were originally established as of 2004, through a final agreement in the budget conciliation meeting of November 2003. These meetings should also be used to strengthen democratic control. 7. The European Parliament, as part of the budgetary authority, also has far-reaching budgetary powers in relation to the CFSP budget which it exercises by virtue of Article 28 of the Treaty on European Union. 8. Therefore, the financing of CFSP from the general budget, where Parliament and Council enjoy equal rights and powers, is also to be considered a most important means for the Parliament to ensure democratic control over this policy. It is even the case, since expenditure for CFSP is classified as "non-compulsory", that the Parliament has a strong role as it adopts the final appropriations for the following year. 9. In terms of the new draft