WRITTEN QUESTION E-4735/09 by Roberta Angelilli (PPE) to the Commission (7 October 2009) Subject: Information on the use of Community funds for the establishment of a care home in the municipality of Vetralla In 2004, after being granted Community regional funding, the municipality of Vetralla planned to open a care home in order to be able to respond to emergencies and to very difficult situations in which a number of local children found themselves. This project is part of Axis III — ‘Upgrading local systems in the 2005 financial year’ (SPD Objective 2, Lazio, 2000‑06). The 2006‑07 area plan made the building of the former primary school in Mazzocchio available and an agreement was drawn up with the CO.PER.NI.CO consortium relating to the management of the service, together with a commitment by the Aurora Cooperative to ensure that once the service was operational it would ensure that children who were currently in the care of the local social services were sent to the home. The total cost of the project for which funding was to be provided was EUR 410 000, 10 % of which would be at the municipal authority's expense. The establishment of such a facility would have numerous benefits, in terms of social integration and in economic terms, for the entire area; it would create new jobs and would substantially reduce the considerable budgetary commitments that have long been borne by the municipality of Vetralla and neighbouring municipalities in order to assist the many children who have been placed with foster families or with other homes far from the area. Despite the fact that the funds for the renovation of the former school building in Mazzocchio were disbursed and the work completed in April 2008, the home has not yet been opened. However, two nursery school classes were recently accommodated in the building, which was supposed to be a care home, when the Vetralla authorities had formally undertaken not to alter the designated purpose of the building for a period of at least 20 years, and to respect the time scale for setting up the home. In the light of the above, can the Commission 1. say whether the Community funds allocated have been used by the local authority in compliance with the initial project in terms of the time needed to complete the renovation of the building and the purpose of the building; 2. say whether it is aware of the abovementioned issues and how it intends to act, and 3. give a general overview of the situation?