as facilitator in the peace process and commends Minister Eric Solheim for his tireless efforts; 2. Welcomes the agreement between the Government of Sri Lanka and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE ) to hold talks in Geneva on 22 and 23 February 2006 with a view to reinforcing the Ceasefire Agreement concluded in February 2002 and to improving its implementation; encourages the parties to invite a Muslim delegation to the peace talks, including Northern Muslim representatives; 3. Calls on all sides in Sri Lanka to demonstrate their commitment to peace by reinforcing the ceasefire, which is essential for any progress, and working together towards a peaceful settlement of the ethnic issue that meets the legitimate aspirations of all communities in Sri Lanka; 4. Calls on the Government of Sri Lanka to ratify the ICC Treaty as a deterrent against war crimes and crimes against humanity; 5. Congratulates the people of Sri Lanka for the presidential elections in November 2005, which were conducted peacefully and smoothly in the south, but condemns the actions - including an enforced boycott, taken by the LTTE - in some parts of the north and east which prevented people from exercising their democratic right to vote; 6. Condemns the continuing use of violence by all sides, particularly since November 2005; urges the LTTE to renounce violence and the Government to ensure that paramilitary groups stop their violent actions which contribute to deteriorating the situation; 7. Is alarmed by recent reports (actionaid) according to which many of the most vulnerable survivors of the Tsunami are faced with discrimination based on their race, sex, ethnicity and legal status, widows and single women, in particular, having frequently been denied compensation; 8. Calls on the Sinhalese, Tamil and Muslim communities to cooperate in delivering aid to the victims of the Tsunami through a joint management mechanism that will guarantee fair and equitable distribution of resources including the € 100 million reconstruction package provided by the EU; 9. Calls on the LTTE to put an end to the recruitment and retention of child soldiers and reminds them that there can be no excuse whatsoever for this abhorrent practice to continue; 10. Calls on the LTTE to allow for political pluralism and alternate democratic voices in the north and east parts of Sri Lanka which would secure the interests of all peoples and communities; 11. Calls on the parties to the Ceasefire Agreement to ensure the security of the SLMM which is an unarmed body invited by both the Government and the LTTE to monitor the Ceasefire Agreement, in order to allow the mission to fulfil its mandate and commends the contributing countries Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden for their invaluable work; 12. Calls on the Council, the Commission and the Member States to remain committed to a fair and sustainable solution to the Sri Lankan conflict and reiterates its support to the people of Sri Lanka and their new President Mr Mahinda Rajapakse as they address together the challenges that lie ahead; 13. Instructs its President to forward this resolution