WRITTEN QUESTION E-3732/08 by Hiltrud Breyer (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (4 July 2008) Subject: Follow-up question on a breach of European law in connection with equal treatment in employment and professional life As established in my Written Question P‑1742/08 to the Commission, the Berlin Senate scandalously pays non-German teachers working at the Nelson Mandela International School and the state-run European schools less than their German colleagues. Although, in Berlin, the law transposing EU directives relating to the teaching professions (EG-RL-LehrerG) and the accompanying implementing regulation (EG-RL-LehrerVO) provide that EU migrant teachers have the possibility of having their teaching diploma recognised according to the EU rules on the recognition of professional qualifications, this is effectively not possible, since recognition requires a language diploma in German despite the fact that non-German teachers will subsequently be teaching in their mother tongue. For recognition, furthermore, non-Germans have to have completed teacher training in a second subject. No provision is made for that in the other EU Member States, however. In addition, there are no arrangements enabling non-German teachers to undergo this additional training while in employment, meaning that it is effectively not possible for them to meet the Berlin EG-RL-LehrerG and EG-RL-LehrerVO conditions for recognition of professional qualifications. (It should also be pointed out that the Berlin Senate adopted the arrangements governing non-German teachers without negotiating with the customary partner in Germany: the relevant trade union.) The Commission's statement that the majority of requests for recognition of teachers' diplomas are decided by the Berlin Senate in favour of EU teachers is not correct either. 1. How does the Commission view the fact that the Berlin EG-RL-LehrerG and EG-RL-LehrerVO effectively put up insurmountable obstacles for non-German teachers? 2. Is the Commission of the opinion that the Berlin EG-RL-LehrerG and EG-RL-LehrerVO must be amended so as to comply with European provisions on equal treatment in employment and professional life? 3. Can the Commission say how many applications for recognition of professional qualifications have been granted in Berlin over the last few years? (Please give the number of applications granted for each year.)