on behalf of the ALDE Group, Hiltrud Breyer , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Ilda Figueiredo , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Urszula Krupa , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Gabriele Stauner , Teresa Riera Madurell , Marco Cappato , Eva-Britt Svensson , Godfrey Bloom , Zita Pleštinská , Gabriela Creţu , Věra Flasarová , Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou , Lidia Joanna Geringer de Oedenberg , Ria Oomen-Ruijten , Marusya Ivanova Lyubcheva , Romana Jordan Cizelj , Iratxe García Pérez and Rumiana Jeleva . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Mairead McGuinness , Silvia-Adriana Ţicău , Danutė Budreikaitė , Zuzana Roithová , Bogusław Liberadzki , Ewa Tomaszewska , Zbigniew Zaleski , Andrzej Jan Szejna and Astrid Lulling . The following spoke: Vladimír Špidla and Edit Bauer . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 18.11.2008, item 7.17 . 23 General arrangements for excise duty * (debate) Report: on the proposal for a Council directive concerning the general arrangements for excise duty [ COM(2008)0078 - C6-0099/2008 - 2008/0051(CNS) ] - Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Rapporteur: Astrid Lulling ( A6-0417/2008 ) Astrid Lulling introduced the report. IN THE CHAIR: Alejo VIDAL-QUADRAS Vice-President The following spoke: László Kovács (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Manuel António dos Santos (rapporteur for the opinion of the ITRE Committee), Bill Newton Dunn (rapporteur for the opinion of the IMCO Committee), Zsolt László Becsey , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Elisa Ferreira , on behalf of the PSE Group, Olle Schmidt , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Zbigniew Krzysztof Kuźmiuk , on behalf of the UEN Group, Trevor Colman , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Margaritis Schinas , Katerina Batzeli , Colm Burke , Peter Skinner and Gabriela Creţu . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Zuzana Roithová and Silvia-Adriana Ţicău . The following spoke: László Kovács and Astrid Lulling . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 18.11.2008, item 7.14 . 24 European Union Solidarity Fund: obstacles for its reform (debate) Oral question ( O-0092/2008 ) by Gerardo Galeote , on behalf of the REGI Committee, to the Commission: European Union Solidarity Fund: obstacles for its reform ( B6-0472/2008 ) Gerardo Galeote moved the oral question. Danuta Hübner (Member of the Commission) answered the oral question. The following spoke: Rolf Berend , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Iratxe García Pérez , on behalf of the PSE Group, Jean Marie Beaupuy , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Elisabeth Schroedter , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Pedro Guerreiro , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Lambert van Nistelrooij , Wolfgang Bulfon , Agnes Schierhuber , Evgeni Kirilov , James Nicholson , Stavros Arnaoutakis , Oldřich Vlasák , Gábor Harangozó , Rumiana Jeleva , Emmanouil Angelakas , Maria Petre and Mairead McGuinness . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Sérgio Marques , Czesław Adam Siekierski , Mieczysław Edmund Janowski and Rolf Berend . The following spoke: Danuta Hübner . The debate closed. 25 Improving consumer education and awareness on credit and finance (short presentation) Report: on protecting the consumer: