: Milan Gaľa , Linda McAvan Situation of prisoners in Guantánamo ( RC-B6-0295/2006 ): Bruno Gollnisch 9 Corrections to votes and voting intentions Corrections to votes: Corrections to votes appear on the 'Séance en direct' website under 'Votes'/'Results of votes'/ 'Roll-call votes'. They are published in hard copy in the 'Result of roll-call votes' annex. The electronic version on Europarl will be regularly updated for a maximum of two weeks after the day of the vote concerned. After the two-week deadline has passed, the list of corrections to votes will be finalised so that it can be translated and published in the Official Journal. Voting intentions: The Presidency had been notified of the following voting intentions (in respect of votes that had not been cast): Report: Christa Klaß - A6-0146/2006 - amendment 2 in favour: María Sornosa Martínez - amendment 4 in favour: María Sornosa Martínez - amendment 7 in favour: María Sornosa Martínez against: Eija-Riitta Korhola - amendment 36 in favour: María Sornosa Martínez - amendment 39 in favour: María Sornosa Martínez (The sitting was suspended at 13.00 and resumed at 15.00.) IN THE CHAIR: Miroslav OUZKÝ Vice-President 10 Approval of Minutes of previous sitting Hans-Peter Mayer had informed the Presidency that he had been present but that his name was not on the attendance register. The Minutes of the previous sitting were approved. 11 Welcome On behalf of Parliament, the President welcomed members of a delegation from the Chilean Parliament - led by Mr Tarud Daccarett - who had taken their seats in the distinguished visitors' gallery. 12 Pandemic influenza preparedness and response planning in the European Community (debate) Report on pandemic influenza preparedness and response planning in the European Community [ 2006/2062(INI) ] - Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. Rapporteur: Adamos Adamou ( A6-0176/2006 ) Adamos Adamou introduced the report. Markos Kyprianou (Member of the Commission) spoke. The following spoke: Milan Gaľa , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Mary Honeyball , on behalf of the PSE Group, Jules Maaten , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Bart Staes , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Kartika Tamara Liotard , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Zdzisław Zbigniew Podkański , on behalf of the UEN Group, Kathy Sinnott , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, John Bowis , Marie-Noëlle Lienemann , Marios Matsakis , Bairbre de Brún , Urszula Krupa , Françoise Grossetête , Karin Scheele , Arūnas Degutis , Thomas Ulmer , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Péter Olajos , Adamos Adamou and Markos Kyprianou . IN THE CHAIR: Manuel António dos SANTOS Vice-President The following spoke: Bart Staes , who put a question to the Commission which Markos Kyprianou answered. The debate closed. Vote: Minutes of 14.06.2006, Item 4.4 . 13 Human rights in Tunisia (debate) Council and Commission statements: Human rights in Tunisia Hans Winkler (President-in-Office of the Council) and Olli Rehn (Member of the Commission) made the statements. The following spoke: Simon Busuttil , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Catherine Trautmann , on behalf of the PSE Group, Hélène Flautre ,