Question for written answer E-4595/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Oriol Junqueras Vies (Verts/ALE) (22 June 2010) Subject: Blue flags on polluted beaches — EU type-approval and monitoring The Blue Flag Programme, which was set up and promoted by the European Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE), is a recognised symbol which requires beaches and ports to meet stringent health and environmental standards, have adequate sanitation, be waste‑free and have lifeguard and first aid services. The blue flag award is based on fulfilment at the beaches and ports concerned of a set of specific criteria that hinge around four basic pillars: (a) quality of bathing water; (b) environmental information and education; (c) environmental management and; (d) safety and services. The blue flag is awarded annually, and solely by the FEE, in order to ensure continued compliance with its criteria. Can the Commission state whether it is involved in any way in the activities of this organisation which promotes blue flags? Does the Community provide co‑financing to promote this programme? Why did the Commission withdraw its certification of these distinctive symbols some years ago? In the event that a Community link exists between the Commission and the FEE with regard to blue flag type‑approval certification and quality control, has the Commission set any criteria relating to methodology and the outcome of bathing water inspections and their monitoring? Is the Commission aware, in the case of beaches and coastlines that are the subject of ongoing infringement proceedings (such as the coastal areas concerning which the Commission has launched infringement proceedings against the Spanish State owing to the absence of waste‑water treatment and the failure to forward plans of the hydrographic basin as required by Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1 . ) of the level of confusion generated among the public by the fact that severely polluted areas are being awarded blue flags when the extent to which there is Community level type‑approval of this system is unknown, and is not immediately apparent, and by the fact that no exhaustive monitoring criteria exist?