they shall grant their members, for the quantities withdrawn from the market, an indemnity at least equal to the sum of the financial compensation calculated in accordance with paragraph 3(a), plus an amount equal to 10% of the withdrawal price applied by that organisation. - 10% , in the case referred to in paragraph 3(a)(I), - 12%, in the case referred to in paragraph 3(a)(ii), - 15%, in the case referred to in paragraph 3(a)(iii) and (b), of the withdrawal price applied by that organisation. (Amendment 43) Article 23(4)(a), to add before 1st indent - sterilising (Amendment 44) Article 24(5), 1st subparagraph 5. The quantities eligible for the flat-rate aid pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 5 may not exceed 5% of the annual quantities of the products concerned put up for sale in accordance with Article 5(1). 5. The quantities eligible for the flat-rate aid pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 5 may not exceed 7% of the annual quantities of the products concerned put up for sale in accordance with Article 5(1). (Amendment 45) Article 25(4) 4. The following restrictions shall apply to the grant of private storage aid: 4. The following restrictions shall apply to the grant of private storage aid: a) the products must have been fished, frozen on board and landed in the Community by a member of a producer organisation, a) the products must have been fished, frozen on board and landed in the Community by a member of a producer organisation, b) the products must be stored for a minimum period and then placed on the Community market again, b) the products must be stored for a minimum period and then placed on the Community market again, up to a maximum of 15% of the annual quantities of the products concerned put up for sale by the producer organisation. up to a maximum of 20% of the annual quantities of the products concerned put up for sale by the producer organisation. (Amendment 46) Article 27(1), 1st subparagraph 1. An allowance may be granted to the producers" organisations for the quantities of products listed in Annex III caught by their members, then sold and delivered to processing industries established within the customs territory of the Community and intended for the industrial manufacture of products falling within CN code 1604. The allowance shall be granted where it is established that, over a three-month period: - the average selling price recorded on the Community market and - the import price referred to in Article 30(3) 1. An allowance may be granted to the producers" organisations for the quantities of products listed in Annex III caught by their members, then sold and delivered to processing industries established within the customs territory of the Community and intended for the industrial manufacture of products falling within CN code 1604. The allowance shall be granted where it is established that, over a three-month period: - the average selling price recorded on the Community market and - the import price referred to in Article 30(3) are both lower than a triggering threshold equivalent to 85%