coordinator shall replace those biennial reports. Article 10 European coordinator 1. When a project declared to be of European interest encounters significant delays or implementation difficulties, including in situations where third countries are involved, the Commission may designate, in agreement with the Member States concerned, and after having consulted the European Parliament, a European coordinator. When necessary, Member States may also request that the Commission designate a European coordinator for other projects concerning trans-European energy networks. 2. The European coordinator shall be chosen, in particular, on the basis of his experience of European institutions and knowledge of issues relating to energy policy and the financing and socio-economic and environmental evaluation of major projects. 3. The decision designating the European coordinator shall specify how the coordinator is to perform his tasks. 4. The European coordinator shall: a) promote the European dimension of the project and the cross-border dialogue between the project promoters and the people concerned; b) contribute to the coordination of the national procedures for consulting the people concerned; and c) submit a report to the Commission every year on the progress of the project(s) for which he has been designated European coordinator and on any difficulties and obstacles which are likely to result in a significant delay. The Commission will transmit that report to the Member States concerned. 5. The Member States concerned shall cooperate with the European coordinator in his execution of the tasks referred to in paragraph 4. 6. The Commission may request the opinion of the European coordinator when examining applications for Community funding for projects or groups of projects for which he has been designated. 7. In order to avoid unnecessary administrative burden, the level of coordination must be proportionate to the costs of the project. Article 11 More favourable context 1. In order to contribute to creating a more favourable context for the development of trans-European energy networks and their interoperability, the Community shall take account of Member States' efforts made in line with that objective, and shall attach the greatest importance to and promote as necessary the following measures: a) technical cooperation between the entities responsible for the trans-European energy networks, in particular for the proper functioning of the connections mentioned in Annex II, points 1, 2 and 7; b) facilitating implementation of the authorization procedures for projects on trans-European energy networks in order to reduce delays , especially as regards projects of European interest ; c) the provision of assistance to the projects of common interest from Community Funds, instruments and financial programmes applicable to those networks. 2. The Commission shall, in close collaboration with the Member States concerned, take all initiatives for promoting the coordination of the activities referred to in paragraph 1. 3. The measures necessary for the implementation of the activities referred to in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 shall be decided upon by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2). Article 12 Effects on competition When projects are considered, their effects on competition and on security of supply shall be taken into account.