if this is not adhered to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement will immediately be suspended and sanctions applied. The House calls on all protestors to allow a normal functioning of the Ukraine state organs and to refrain from barricading the main buildings of these organs of the state. MEPs consider threats of separatism and the partition of Ukraine as unacceptable and expresses its commitment to the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Parliament rejects allegations, especially by the Russian President, that, by expressing their support for the Ukrainian people's right to exercise their democratic rights, the European Union and the international community were encouraging violence; stresses at the same time that Russia carries a great responsibility for the situation in Ukraine. Parliament believes that relations with Ukraine depend on a democratic solution, and pledges its continuing support, assistance and commitment to the Ukrainian people's establishment of a free and open democratic system, their creation of a prosperous market economy. Finally, MEPs call on the Commission, the Council and the Members States, in the anticipation of a satisfactory outcome of the present situation, to speed up the adoption of the Action Plan for Ukraine, to engage in the rapid implementation of this plan and to include new measures aimed at strengthening the role of civil society. Debate Opening the debate on the situation in Ukraine, Atzo NICOLAÏ , speaking for the Council, recalled that 5 weeks ago he had said " Ukraine is at a crossroads and the results of the elections will set Ukraine's course for the next four years ." He recalled the EU declaration that the elections of 31 October and 21 November were " not free or fair and did not live up to international standards ." The EU, he said, had not stood by and watched. The Dutch Presidency issued a declaration on 22 November, following the publication of the OSCE report, stating that the elections had not been free and fair. Ukrainian Ambassadors in all EU capitals, he stated, had been summoned to hear this message. Javier SOLANA and the special EU envoy former Dutch Ambassador BIEGMAN had both been in Kiev and had expressed regret at the electoral procedures and the timing of the announcement of the results. Mr Nicolai stated that the EU was pleased that the Ukrainian Supreme Court had decided to take action with regard to the official announcement of the results. The EU had been in close contact with the Council of Europe, the OSCE, Russia and Ukraine, and Prime Minister BALKENENDE , in his capacity as President of the European Council, " had been constantly working behind the scenes ." The EU had issued a call for restraint on all sides and recalled that both the Polish and Lithuanian Presidents were in Kiev in order to find a solution to the crisis. He stressed the importance of respecting Ukraine's territorial integrity. As to the way forward, Mr Nicolai stated there would have to be a legal and constitutional answer to the crisis that reflects the will of all the Ukrainian people. As he