persons with HIV/AIDS, malaria and/or TB in developing countries, can be completely different from those existing in developed countries. The whole R&D process should be geared to taking that crucial factor into account, failing which its final results could prove unusable. The results of R&D, in terms of treatments for patients in developing countries, must be specially tailored to the conditions in which they will be applied, in other words they must be effective, suited to the delivery conditions that might exist in developing countries, and affordable. The main benefits of the EDCTP should be in developing countries. Amendment 9 Recital 10 (10) Wishing to have a coherent approach at European level and to act effectively against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, the participating States agreed to establish a partnership on clinical trials between European countries and the developing countries in order to obtain a critical mass in terms of human and financial resources and the combination of additional expertise and resources available in various countries across Europe. (10) Wishing to have a coherent approach at European level and to act effectively against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries , the participating States have agreed to establish a clinical trials partnership between European countries and the developing countries in order to obtain a critical mass in terms of human and financial resources to carry out effective, ethical and appropriate clinical trials in partnership with and in developing countries, in view of obtaining products adapted to the local conditions and accessible to local populations. Justification The added value of this initiative would be in the fact that it specifically addresses problems related to HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the developing countries. The text of this decision can not leave any ambiguity on this issue and the structure of the EDCTP will have to ensure an active participation and responsibility of the developing countries in the decisions on priorities and agenda. Conditions of life, and therefore of care and treatment, of people affected by HIV/AIDS, malaria and/or tuberculosis in developing countries radically differ from developed countries: for example, practical aspects such as keeping drugs refrigerated and taking doses with food may differ. This crucial element needs to be taken into account throughout the R&D process to avoid having an end-product that is unusable or unaffordable. Amendment 10 Recital 10 a (new) (10a) The development of new intervention tools to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and TB should meet the specific needs of the developing countries as determined by them, in particular access to effective, easy-to-use products which ordinary people can afford to buy. Justification The results of R&D for treating and caring for patients in developing countries will need to be specifically adapted and targeted to the conditions in which they will be used, meaning they need to be efficient, adapted to the conditions of administration in developing countries and affordable. Amendment 11 Recital 11 a (new) (11a) The EDCTP research and development programme, designed to make a specific contribution to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, could serve as a pilot scheme. A similar initiative should