European Countries, and other jurisdictions linked to the identification and recovery of looted cultural goods. - appraised the use and development of the Lugano Convention and current practice relating to use of that Convention to enforce judgments as to movable property (or cultural objects). - discussed how the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter on Fundamental Rights and the jurisprudence that has developed in the ECJ and Court of Human Rights might relate to stolen or looted cultural goods. General conclusions The hearing abundantly showed that the current situation lacks legal certainty, transparency and a coherent approach. This is a cross border issue calling for a cross-border solution. The main objective of this European Parliament initiative is to propose the development of transparent remedial structures, which should be consistent with applicable principles of European and international law. The European Union should play a leading role in creating a cross-border, coordinating authority that would replace the present system where these disputes are addressed case by case under national law. In order to play this leading role, the European Union should establish a level playing field of provisions addressing the resolution of disputes relating to the identification, ownership and return of looted cultural goods. To this purpose, it is urgent to create a central database and to provide general access to public and private archives. These measures not only contribute to a more consistent and predictable internal market in art works, they also improve access to justice and respect the rule of law. It is ultimately a moral and ethical issue urgently calling for a moral and ethical solution. We need a clear and coherent approach, not only based on rules and legal principles, but also on principles such as equity and morality. This might be done by a coordinating, administrative authority on European level, setting out these common rules. Cross-border problems need cross-border solutions.