Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (18 May 2005) In the last years, there has been an expansion of the phenomenon of ‘sexual tourism’. This has lead to a specific demand for children for sexual exploitation (such as child prostitution and child pornography). Trafficking in human beings is one of the most serious crimes against persons that cause grave physical and psychological damage. At EU level, Article 24 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights stresses that the child's best interests must be a primary consideration in all actions relating to children and must be regarded as a crucial step forward in the sphere of the protection of children’s rights. Children are particularly vulnerable to trafficking — both within and across national borders. Child victims are sometimes sold to traffickers by their parents. Some groups of children — such as street children — are particularly vulnerable to being trafficked, because of the lack of opportunities, education and support. Sexual tourism is supported by poverty which leaves no choice but to submit to exploitation and slavery in which, unfortunately, children are the victims. The Commission, within its competencies, will strengthen the financial support for projects specifically addressing child trafficking within the EU and in the external relations of the EU, funding is available for projects supporting the fight against violence towards minors and women (the Daphne II programme — 2004/2008 — and STOP programme). At the same time, the Commission will continue to use existing instruments for the prevention of organised crime in order to promote and strengthen the development of human rights. In 2000, the Commission tabled a proposal for a framework decision on combating sexual exploitation and child pornography COM(2000)854 final. , which led to the adoption of the framework decision on 22 December 2003 OJ L 13, 20.1.2004. ; moreover it is necessary to list the Council framework decision of 19 July 2002 on combating trafficking in human beings OJ L 203, 1.8.2002. , and the Council directive of 29 April 2004 on the residence permit issued to third-country nationals who are victims of trafficking in human beings OJ L 261, 6.8.2004. . The Commission has launched certain initiatives to reinforce the coordination, at European level, of information and awareness raising campaigns in the EU countries against child sex tourism. The EU will also intensify its efforts to address the plight of trafficked children through dialogue and support for projects and programmes in the context of its external relations with third countries, in particular significant countries of origin and transit.