format has been agreed between the Commission and the Member States. The presentation format for ABP establishments is to be enforced as of 1 July 2007. With regard to official controls, and according to Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules, OJ L 165, 30.4.2004. , it is also the duty of the competent authorities in all Member States to carry out official controls in order to verify the proper implementation of the legislation by food business operators. The frequency of official controls should be regular and proportionate to the risk, taking into account the results of the checks carried out by feed and food operators under HACCP Hazard analysis and critical control point. based control programmes. Similar requirements apply to official controls to be carried out by competent authorities to check compliance with Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002. Community controls in Member States are conducted by the Food and Veterinary Office (FVO). The main purpose of the regular audits by the FVO is to verify that, overall, official controls take place in Member States in compliance with Community law. With regard to imports, third countries are informed about the requirements laid down in the animal by-products regulation and the hygiene package. They are consequently aware of the need to channel raw material for the production of fish oil for human consumption into establishments approved for that purpose. In relation to lists of approved fishery products establishments, these third countries have been informed about the obligation to include establishments approved for the production of fish oil for human consumption in the lists. However, as fish oil is a fishery product, the Commission has no intention of setting up a separate list in respect of fish oil only. Finally, they are also aware that the Commission exerts controls by the on-site checks carried out by the FVO and by checks conducted at the Community’s border inspection posts. From the foregoing description of requirements, food business operator obligations and the necessary segregation of the production of fish oil for human consumption (a fishery product) from fish oil not for human consumption (an animal by-product), and bearing in mind the controls that are conducted by competent authorities, the FVO and the officials at Community border inspection posts, the circulation of fish oil for human consumption should be considered as being suitable.