on own account in commodity derivatives it is appropriate to exclude them from the scope of this Directive. (21) In order to protect an investor's ownership and other similar rights in respect of securities and his rights in respect of funds entrusted to a firm those rights should in particular be protected by being kept distinct from those of the firm. This principle should not, however, prevent a firm from doing business in its name but on behalf of the investor, where that is required by the very nature of the transaction and the investor is in agreement, for example stock lending. (22) For the purposes of ensuring that retail investors do not enter into unsuitable transactions, access to the systems operated by an MTF should be restricted to professional investors, as defined in Annex II, for the purposes of trading on own account or on behalf of their customers and other professional investors . (23) The procedures for the authorisation, within the Community, of branches of investment firms authorised in third countries should continue to apply to such firms. Those branches should not enjoy the freedom to provide services under the second paragraph of Article 49 of the Treaty or the right of establishment in Member States other than those in which they are established. In view of cases where the Community is not bound by any bilateral or multilateral obligations it is appropriate to provide for a procedure intended to ensure that Community investment firms receive reciprocal treatment in the third countries concerned. (24) The expanding range of activities that many investment firms and credit institutions undertake simultaneously has increased potential for conflicts of interests between these different activities and the interest of their clients. It is therefore necessary to provide for rules to ensure that such conflicts do not adversely affect client interest. (25) It is necessary to strengthen the Community's legal framework to protect investors by enhancing obligations of investment firms when providing services with or on behalf of client. In particular, it is indispensable for an investment firm providing advice or discretionary services on behalf of a client, in order to properly fulfil its agency obligations to its clients, to obtain information on the client's financial position, experience, and investment objectives and to assess the suitability, for that client, of services or transactions in financial instruments which are being considered in the light of this information. The performance of this assessment should not require a separate authorisation to provide investment advice. (26) By way of derogation from the principle of home country authorisation, supervision and enforcement of obligations in respect of the operation of branches, it is appropriate that the competent authority of the host Member State assume responsibility for enforcing conduct of business rules in relation to business conducted with clients through a branch, since that authority is in greatest proximity to the branch, and is better placed to detect and intervene in respect of infringements of rules governing firm-client transactions. (27) It is necessary to impose an effective "best execution" obligation to ensure that the