the values of the Union . The Commission should deal with registration in accordance with the general principles of good administration. (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives and to avoid a situation in which signatures are collected for a proposal which does not fall within the scope of this Regulation , it should be mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary statements of support from citizens . Proposals that are not citizens' initiatives within the meaning of this Regulation should not be registered. Registration is an administrative procedure aimed at selecting those initiatives that fall within the scope of this Regulation; therefore any refusal of registration should be based only on legal grounds and not, on any account, on grounds of political expediency. The Commission should deal with registration in accordance with the general principles of good administration , and should therefore be obliged to inform the organisers of an initiative of the reasons for any refusal to register that initiative and of all possible judicial and extrajudicial remedies available to them. It should also be made clear by the Commission that registration and the collection of the required number of statements of support will not necessarily result in the Commission adopting a proposal for a legal act and that the registration of an initiative does not constitute a formal decision on competence issues . Justification The amendment justifies the abolition of the "admissibility check": the Commission should only verify if a certain initiative is a citizens' initiative pursuant to the Regulation. If it is so, the initiative should be registered and the organisers shouldn't be prevented from collecting signatures. The second part addresses some issues which emerge due to the abolition of the "admissibility check". In order to be able to prevent using the initiative for provoking decisions by the Commission on competence issues, it should be explained to organisers that the registration means simply that the initiative in the Commission's view is a European citizens' initiative. It can not be understood as a formal decision on competence issues. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Recital 9 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (9) The organiser of a proposed citizens' initiative should be responsible for the collection of the necessary statements of support from citizens. (9) Once a proposal is registered as a citizens' initiative, statements of support from citizens may be collected by the organisers . Justification Reinforces the position that the registration is only aimed at deciding whether a European citizens' initiative is on the table or not. If it is so, organisers do not have to comply with any other requirements (admissibility, etc.) but they are free to exercise their right under the Treaty, namely to collect signatures in favour of an initiative. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Recital 10 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (10) It is appropriate to provide for statements of support to be collected in paper form as well as online . Online