encourage all citizens to participate in these elections, and to guarantee the same electoral rights for all citizens residing in the same country (nationals or non-nationals) SEC(2006)1647 . . The Directive states that no citizen may vote more than once or stand as a candidate in more than one Member State in the same election (Article 4 of the Directive) Also Article 8 of the Act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of the representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage. . However, in light of the experience of the European elections in June 2004, the Commission felt it would be possible to simplify the procedure and therefore presented this proposal for a directive. The Directive plans to abolish the obligation for Member States to exchange information (Article 13), to strengthen the provisions for sanctions in the event of a false declaration (Article 13), and to abolish the obligation for candidates to provide an attestation that they are eligible to stand as a candidate (Articles 6 and 10). II. Scope of the Directive This Directive is concerned only with citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals. As such, the Directive does not discuss - citizens with dual nationality - third-country nationals 1. Dual nationality In its Communication on the 2004 European elections COM(2006)0790 . , the Commission discussed the problems that may be linked to dual or multiple nationality (of more than one Member State). In such cases, it is impossible to ensure that a citizen does not vote more than once, which is a breach of Article 8 of the Act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of the representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage. This issue does not fall within the scope of Directive 93/109/CE but is a potential source of double votes and the Commission should, therefore, study the options for avoiding such situations occurring. 2. Third-country nationals This Directive deals only with citizens of the Union and does not cover the possible participation of third-country citizens in European Parliament elections. However, recent case law developments at the European Court of Justice are worth mentioning. The Court was consulted about whether a Member State is justified in extending the right to vote in European Parliament elections to third-country nationals, such as Commonwealth citizens fulfilling certain criteria (‘qualifying Commonwealth citizens’), living on European territory such as Gibraltar. In its judgment of 12 September 2006 Case C-145/04 Kingdom of Spain/United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. , the Court pointed out that neither Article 190 EC nor the 1976 Act determines clearly or precisely who is eligible to have the right to vote and stand as a candidate at the European Parliament Point 70 of the Judgment. , while Article 8 of the 1976 Act states that the electoral procedure is governed by national provisions Point 69 of the judgment. in each Member State. The Court concludes that ‘ the definition of the persons entitled to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections