Question for written answer P-6294/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Chris Davies (ALDE) (29 July 2010) Subject: Animal Experiments Directive In public statements all three EU institutions have said that, under the Council common position on the revision of Directive 86/609/EEC OJ L 117, 5.5.1987 , p. 31. (animal experiments), there will be tight restrictions on the use of non-human primates in experiments (and a virtual prohibition on the use of great apes). The relevant part of Recital 17 does indeed state that the use of non-human primates is only permitted where it ‘is carried out in relation to potentially life-threatening conditions in humans or in relation to cases having a substantial impact on a person’s day‑to‑day functioning, i.e. debilitating conditions’ (emphasis added). However, the definition of ‘debilitating’ in Article 8 does not contain the word ‘substantial’ . Will the Commission state whether it is in fact its intention that, in the case of applied research, non-human primates will only be used for human conditions which are either life‑threatening or have a substantial impact on a person’s day-to-day functioning, and that this would certainly exclude research into minor ailments such as baldness? If so, how will the Commission ensure that appropriate seriousness is attached to the interpretation of the directive when applications for experimentation are judged? Does the Commission accept that the directive provides for full implementation of the Three Rs principle except in cases, as provided for under Article 13(1), where Member States have to apply legislation that prohibits use of the non-animal method for other reasons? How will the Commission ensure proper implementation of the Three Rs principle in practice and how will it ensure that a prohibition on the use of animals in experiments is applied whenever there is a non‑animal method that can provide the desired scientific information, irrespective of whether the method is included in Community legislation?