WRITTEN QUESTION E-1308/06 by László Surján (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (29 March 2006) Subject: The relationship between the EU institutions' language services I am happy that the objectives of the Commission's Translation DG include improving cooperation between the institutions. In the field of translation and interpreting, this is very important to the languages of the new Member States for the purposes of establishing uniform terminology and developing computer-aided translation. It is a marvellous opportunity for us now, in the post-accession years, to participate in the development of the language used in specialised fields. The way in which words are used should be sufficiently precise to express the concepts used in the EU, and it should be uniform and at the same time readily comprehensible to the public. Thus everyone working professionally in the field should unite to ensure that what emerges is not some esoteric jargon but a widely understandable, uniform mode of expression. In the light of this, I would ask the Commission whether relations between the language services of the individual institutions are good enough? Does cooperation exist between them, do they exchange information, and if so, are these processes effective? Are the terminology databases which the individual language services (those of the Commission, Council and Parliament) use — and continuously add to — accessible to staff at the other institutions? Is there an Internet forum to promote cooperation among the various language services, and does it permit discussion of terminological issues? Use of uniform terminology facilitates the work of staff in the language services, but at the same time it helps document users. I believe that it is only through close cooperation that a sufficiently precise and at the same time (for the benefit of the public) readily comprehensible use of language can develop, thereby guaranteeing that people will also understand the decisions taken in their interests.