however, this agreement should not be overestimated. The value of EU textile export to Uzbekistan is EUR 16.4 million - 0.05% of total EU textile export. Moreover, an agreement with Uzbekistan in the textile sector cannot be treated as a separate technical matter. The fact that the Economist Intelligence Unit puts Uzbekistan 164th out of 167 countries in its ‘Democracy Index’ and that ‘Freedom House Index’ gives a special place to Uzbekistan, ranking amongst the 9 ‘worst of the worst’ is giving rise to concerns about the actual respect for fundamental human rights. It should also be recalled that the EU imposed sanctions against Uzbekistan from 2005-2009 and that the Council adopted conclusions every 6 months during that period. Uzbekistan is the world’s fifth-largest producer of cotton and its third biggest cotton exporter. In Uzbekistan, the political and economic systems are under state control. Cotton is produced on private farms but the harvested cotton must be handed over to state-owned firms for a price dictated by the state. According to a study by the World Bank, the amount officially paid to farmers is only a third of the export price. Government employees mobilize children as a cheap source of labour during the cotton harvest. The estimates range from 200.000 to 2 million children from 9-15 years old. The State dictates quotas for cotton, which must be fulfilled. Compliance with these quotas is implemented hierarchically: at the beginning of the harvest the governors of the provinces pass on binding orders to their respective district governors to close schools and send children out to work in the harvest. The district governors then send on these orders to the educational departments of the respective districts. From there, the command is issued directly to schools. Each province must fulfil its allotted quota within the framework of the national cotton plan. This quota is divided among the individual districts to the quota of cotton an individual child has to harvest. Schools are obliged to send children out into the cotton fields. Administrative employees and teachers who refuse to comply risk losing their jobs. The families of children who refuse to work are pressurized by the police and the prosecution service. The authorities threaten to withhold pension and social support, to cut off electricity, gas and water supplies and even to arrest, imprison and charge members of non-compliant families. The farmers then take over the organization of the labour: they collect up the cotton harvested by the children and pay the children their meagre wage. The farmers finance the field work via the school administration and the teachers dispatch money each week. Those farmers who provide food for the children deduct the costs incurred from the children’s wages. In accordance with this system, many schools, particularly those in agricultural regions, are closed from September until November/December. As a consequence, the children involved miss two to three months of school every year. The response of Uzbekistan, the EU and the rest of the international community The government of Uzbekistan denies the existence of the problem and states that this