in Moldova have not been fully implemented so far, H. whereas serious concern has been expressed about government control of the public media and pressure on private media and about a general lack of access to the media; whereas concern has also been expressed about abuse of administrative resources in favour of incumbent candidates, I. whereas uncertainties still exist with regard to the electoral lists, in particular with regard to the possibility of voting for expatriates and students, J. whereas on 1 February 2005 Moldova’s government accused the authorities of the eastern breakaway region of Transdniestria of stoking tensions ahead of the March elections by mobilising reserve officers and concentrating armed units, K. whereas relations between the two sides have been tense recently, with both Moldova and Transdniestria accusing each other of preparing for war, 1. Underlines the importance of a further reinforced relationship between the EU and Moldova and confirms the need to work together to contribute to increased stability, security and prosperity on the European continent, and to avoid the emergence of new dividing lines; 2. Expresses its strong and continuing support for the efforts of the Moldovan people to establish a fully functioning democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights in Moldova; 3. Stresses that the forthcoming elections, and in particular compliance with international standards for democratic rules during the electoral process, are of the greatest importance for the further developments of relations between Moldova and the European Union; 4. Urges the Moldovan authorities to ensure all necessary conditions for the parliamentary elections to be free and fair both on the day of the elections and during the pre‑electoral campaign and thus to ensure that Moldova’s international commitments as enshrined by the Council of Europe and the OSCE are respected; 5. Calls in particular on the Moldovan authorities to ensure that the elections are held with unbiased, pluralist media coverage of the campaign and with even-handedness shown by the state administration towards all candidates and their supporters; 6. Appeals to the Moldovan authorities to guarantee the right to vote to all citizens of the country, including students, those working outside the country and those whose identity cards have expired on the eve of the date of the elections; 7. Welcomes the Moldovan authorities’ invitation for international observers to be present at the parliamentary elections, but urges them at the same time to give an equal possibility to representatives of Moldovan civil society; 8. Calls upon Moldova and its breakaway region of Transdniestria to restart settlement talks, urges the mediators to redouble their efforts to assist in the process and reaffirms its continuing strong commitment to support settlement of the conflict, drawing on all instruments at its disposal in close consultation with the OSCE; 9. Stresses at the same time that Russia carries a great responsibility for the situation in the region, maintaining as it is about 2 500 troops in Transdniestria, which, according to the decision taken at the 1999 OSCE summit in Istanbul, should have been withdrawn by the end of 2002; 10. Instructs its