the budget lines to be merged, the estimated saving and where this money will be used would have been useful. 1. The appropriations indicated in the financial statement of the proposal for a Council decision are purely for guidance until a final agreement is reached on the financial perspective for the period 2007 and the following years. Regarding this particular point two amendments are tabled to the draft legislative resolution. 2. Given that the present decision is subject to a consultation procedure, it will not contain an amount deemed necessary according to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure OJ C 172 of 18.06.1999, p. 1. Agreement as last amended by Decision 2005/708/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 269, 14.10.2005, p. 24). . Thus an amendment to recital 11 is proposed. 3. In order to assure coherence and simplification, a new paragraph specifying the implementing measures for the programme to be discussed within the advisory committee is proposed. This article includes the annual work plan, the guidelines and the proposals for project selection among other measures to be adopted within the advisory committee in order to assure transparency. An amendment is thus proposed to change Article 9. 4. In order to avoid the risk of overlapping of the actions of the present proposal with the actions of the specific programme "Security and Safeguarding Liberties" and the corresponding specific programmes of the general programmes on "Fundamental Rights and Justice" and "Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows", an amendment to Article 11 is proposed. 5. It is important to ensure democratic scrutiny by means of suitable arrangements for fund monitoring and evaluation. Three amendments have been tabled in this respect to Articles 13 and 15. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Draft legislative resolution Amendment 1 Paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. Specifies that should a reference to the appropriations be included in the proposal for a decision it will be purely for guidance until agreement is reached on the financial perspective for the period 2007 and the following years; Justification Reference to the conciliation procedure that can be initiated on the basis of Rule 56 of EP's Rules of Procedure refers to legislative texts and not to financial reference amounts. Amendment 2 Paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. Calls on the Commission to confirm, once the next financial perspective has been adopted, the amounts indicated in the proposal for a decision or, should the case arise, to submit the adjusted financial statement to the Parliament and the Council, thereby ensuring their compatibility with the ceilings; Justification Amendments seeking to emphasize that pending a decision on the next multiannual Financial Framework the amounts in the financial statements are purely indicative . Proposal for a decision Text proposed by the Commission OJ C …, 8.12.2005, p. ….. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 3 Recital 11 (11) This Decision establishes a financial framework