Answer given by Ms Kroes on behalf of the Commission (5 May 2010) The Commission is aware that, as regards free movement of services, national legislation Law 25/2007, of 18 October. in Spain foresee the establishment of a register of mobile prepaid customers. Those provisions require the identification of the subscriber by name, surname, nationality and number and type of identification document, but do not specify a requirement of proof of residence in Spain. However, in case the registration of mobile prepaid subscribers in Spain requires also proof of residence in Spain in order to keep the mobile prepaid card activated as it was pointed out by the Honourable Member in his question, this may indeed constitute an infringement of EC law, particularly of the Treaty provisions on the free movement of services. The Commission is committed to investigate that issue in order to determine whether the procedure for registration of mobile prepaid subscribers in Spain is compatible with EC law or whether an infringement procedure ought to be launched. As regards the EU regulatory framework for electronic communications, there are no specific requirements for Member States to regulate the disconnection of mobile subscribers and the validity of the credit for consumption on pre-paid cards. Consequently, the rules regarding this practice vary across the EU. However, in accordance with Article 21 of the Universal Service Directive Directive 2002/22/EC. , Member States are required to promote the interests of consumers by ensuring that transparent and up-to-date information on applicable prices and tariffs, and on standard terms and conditions for using publicly available telephony services, is available. In particular, the information that should be published must include a description of the services offered, indicating what is included in the subscription charge and the periodic rental charge, and the dispute settlement mechanisms available to the consumer, including those developed by the operator. If users feel that their rights have not been respected and want to launch a complaint, they can follow the national complaints procedure In Spain, according to the national complaint procedure, if no satisfactory response is received within one month of submitting a complaint to the operator, the complainant can apply either to the Juntas Arbitrales de Consumo, or to the Secretaría de Estado de Telecomunicaciones y para la Sociedad de la Información, which is responsible for enforcing users’ rights. . The Commission would also like to inform the Honourable Member that, although in November 2009 prepaid customers in Spain that had not been registered, were temporarily disconnected, they can still be re-connected if they register by May 2010.