recently revised its guidelines on infringement procedures; understands from this document that a list of the decisions will be provided in advance to the Permanent Representatives and the Member States and that press releases on adopted infringement decisions may be issued on the day of formal adoption; notes, however, that no provision is made to inform Parliament or its responsible committees; 17. Reiterates its urgent call on the Commission to keep Parliament, and in particular its Committee on Petitions, fully informed of decisions in infringement files at all stages of the procedure; 18. Stresses that, under Article 230 of the EC Treaty, Parliament has the right to bring actions before the Court of Justice under the same conditions as the Council and the Commission and that Parliament, pursuant to Article 201 of the Treaty, is empowered to exercise control over the activities of the Commission; 19. Also urges all the Member States, in the light of the foregoing, to apply faithfully all the rules relating to health and safety at work on the basis of the principle that, in the event of any doubt, the interpretation of the law which is most favourable to the health and safety of workers should prevail ( in dubio pro operario ); 20. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the European Ombudsman. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT In November 2001, the complainant, a German doctor, requested the Commission to open infringement proceedings against Germany. The complainant argued that Germany infringed Council Directive 93/104/EC of 23 November 1993 concerning certain aspects of the organization of working time OJ L 307, 13.12.1993, p. 18-24. ("Directive 93/104"), in so far as the activity of doctors in hospitals was concerned, in particular as regards time spent on call by these doctors. In the complainant's view, this resulted in a considerable risk for both staff and patients. In this complaint (2333/2003/GG) the complainant alleged that the Commission had failed to deal with his infringement complaint within an appropriate period of time. In the decision closing this inquiry the Ombudsman noted that nearly 15 months had passed in the present case before the Commission had started dealing with the objections raised by the complainant by sending a request for information to the Member State concerned. The Ombudsman considered that the Commission had failed to deal with the complainant's infringement complaint within a reasonable period of time and that this constituted an instance of maladministration. In the meantime Germany had adopted a new law in order to bring the German legislation in line with Directive 93/104/EC and the Commission needed to examine the compatibility of this new legislation with Community law in order to be able to deal with the complainant's infringement complaint. On 6 December 2004, the Commission informed the complainant that it had adopted a proposal for an amendment of the Working Time Directive (2003/88/EC) OJ L 299, 18.11.2003, p. 9-19. and that it would examine the infringement complaint in the light of this proposal. On 2 November 2005, the complainant turned to the Ombudsman again (complaint