action plan calling for working women all over the world to mobilise in support of their economic, social, and political mobilisation. Many years were to pass, however, between the declaration of International Women’s Day (1910) and its official establishment by the UN. In March 1972 Hertta Kuusinen, a Communist member of the Finnish Parliament and second chairperson of the Women’s International Democratic Federation (WIDF), proposed to the Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) that the UN declare an ‘International Women’s Year’ in order to draw the attention of the UN and the world to the situation of women and their specific problems. This proposal was supported by other women’s organisations, and the CSW recommended that the UN General Assembly declare 1975 International Women’s Year; the Assembly took a decision to that effect in December 1972. The decisions on the International Women’s Year and the UN Decade for Women (1975-1985) inspired action in every part of the world. The Fourth World Conference on Women was held in Beijing in 1995; it adopted a final document entitled the ‘Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action for Equality, Development and Peace’. For this year, a hundred years since International Women’s Day was first declared, the UN has chosen the theme of ‘equal rights, equal opportunities: progress for all’. The main focus of attention will be the Beijing + 15 review centring on ‘Equality, Development and Peace’, the theme of the UN Decade for Women. In the EU, the Treaties have recognised gender equality as one of the EU’s fundamental principles and a universal human right, but substantial inequalities can still be seen in political reality and women’s everyday lives, even though several directives and many resolutions have been adopted over the years with the aim of combating discrimination. The 2006-2010 Roadmap and the current situation Although it has served to some extent to highlight key aspects of gender equality, the 2006-2010 Roadmap for equality has lacked the political force required to translate it into practice, and the progress actually achieved has thus been modest. Another factor involved in this outcome is the inconsistencies of Community policies, which have produced a situation in which more than 85 million people, mostly women and children, have been reduced to poverty by a combination of unemployment, casual labour, low wages, pensions below the minimum subsistence level, and the difficulties of obtaining access to good public services. Furthermore, the current economic and social crisis is having a particularly severe impact on women, exacerbating inequalities and discrimination. In terms of men’s and women’s average wages, the disparities are widening, amounting on average to more than 17%, and indirect forms of discrimination tend to increase when unemployment is rising and affecting women and girls. Even the employment generated in recent years, especially jobs for young people and women, has mainly been insecure and poorly paid and failed to respect fundamental rights, not least where motherhood is concerned, a fact which has also contributed to the low birth rate. Among the most serious forms of discrimination are those inflicted in numerous instances on