sent to observe the elections. She called on George WEAH to live up to his sporting reputation. Good governance, access to basic service and disarmament should be the priorities of the new president. On Mauritania, the situation had improved given the recent steps towards democratisation. On Togo, she said that the initiative of the 18 October went in the right direction but a revision of the electoral code would be necessary. As for Côte d’Ivoire, maintaining Laurent GBAGBO until the 31 October was a wise decision. The Head of Delegation from TOGO thanked his neighbouring countries, in particular Ghana. It was now necessary, he said, to stand back from the debates given the new head of state. He said the situation was in the process of normalisation with national dialogue the organisation of elections. Marie-Hélène AUBERT (Greens/EFA, FR) said that the situation in Togo was the most controversial point. In Bamako, she recalled that the JPA had already expressed its concern. She recalled that she disagreed with the position of France on the elections and the international community could not continue with the situation of denial and impunity. For the representative of NIGERIA ABUBAKAR BANA BWARI , the resolution represented an overview of the events in the region. He noted that the resolution acknowledges that the situation in many west African countries were positive or at least optimistic. He observed in particular that the food situation in Niger was improving thanks to international efforts and the good neighbour actions of countries such as Nigeria. He called for the continued assistance and support of the international community for regional and sub-regional initiatives on peace and security. Michael GAHLER (EPP-ED, DE) said the situation concerning the lack of food dominated the resolution. He said now given the logistics in place, it would be possible to bring food to the region. He hoped that there would be no further problems in Liberia. He said that everybody knew where Charles Taylor was residing. On Mauritania he hoped transition would be carried out in a democratic fashion. He welcomed the positive signs coming from Togo and hoped that consensus would be reached allowing for rapid elections. Beatrice KIRASO (MP, Uganda) said it was time for leaders and politicians to own up to their responsibilities and stop passing the buck. She stated that more people had died from conflicts in Africa than from disease. She applauded the elections in Liberia and welcomed the fact that a female president had been elected. However, she warned about tokenism, stating that women’s rights needed to be respected. She welcomed initiatives taken by regional groupings taken by ECOWAS and she thanked the EU for its financial support. Leaders needed to show credible decision making abilities in order to avoid conflict so that economic development could take place. Ana GOMES (PES, PT) stated that immigration from Africa impacted hugely on Europe. She called for greater checks on arms exports from Europe to Africa. She also voiced concerns about Charles Taylor as well as other dictators who resided outside their country. She called for