a European citizens' initiative. That procedure affords citizens the possibility of directly approaching the Commission, conferring on them a right of initiative similar to that exercised by the European Parliament and the Council . Justification It is superfluous to repeat Treaty provisions in a recital. The necessary references to the Treaties are already made in the citations. In the last sentence the place of the initiative in the overall framework of the European construction is referred to. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (2) The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the European Parliament and the Council should adopt the provisions for the procedures and conditions required for such a citizens' initiative. deleted Justification It is useless to repeat the Treaty provision in a recital. The legal base is already referred to in the first citation of the Regulation. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) These procedures and conditions should be clear, simple, user-friendly and proportionate to the nature of the citizens' initiative. (3) These procedures and conditions should be clear, simple, user-friendly and proportionate to the nature of the citizens' initiative , so as to encourage participation by citizens and to make the Union more accessible. They should strike a judicious balance between rights and obligations . Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3a) It is important that information campaigns concerning citizens' initiatives be organised, in order to raise citizens' awareness and to provide accurate information on this new instrument. The Commission and the European Parliament, via their respective representations and offices in the Member States, should upon request provide citizens with information and informal advice about citizens' initiatives, notably as regards the registration criteria, the values and competencies of the Union and the European Treaties. A user's guide to the citizens' initiatives should be prepared in every official language of the Union and should be available online. Justification In order to avoid raising false expectations and misunderstanding on the nature and the scope of the ECI information campaigns become crucial. The amendment aims to improve the citizens awareness and accurate information on this new instrument. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5) It is necessary to establish the minimum number of Member States from which citizens must come. In order to ensure that a citizens' initiative is representative of a Union interest , this number should be set at one third of Member States. (5) It is necessary to establish a minimum number of Member States from which citizens must come. This threshold should ensure that a citizens' initiative is representative of a Union interest but the requirements should not be too cumbersome. It therefore should be set at one fifth of the Member States. Justification A lower threshold should be found where the Union interest can still be represented but the requirements are not too cumbersome. Amendment 6 Proposal for