Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (12 March 2010) The Commission is unaware of the situation raised by the Honourable Member concerning a battery processing plant in Bourg Fidèle. The operation of this installation is subject to Directive 2008/1/EC OJ L 24, 29.1.2008, p. 8 . concerning integrated pollution prevention and control (IPPC). The IPPC Directive requires installations falling under its scope to operate in accordance with permits including emission limit values based on the best available techniques (BAT), designed to prevent and, where that is not practicable, generally to reduce emissions and the impact to the environment as a whole. The prevention or reduction of emissions to air, water and soil should therefore be dealt with in the environmental permits issued in accordance with the IPPC Directive. The directive also requires that the necessary measures are taken to prevent accidents and to limit their consequences. Existing installations, such as the installation in Bourg Fidèle, had to be brought into full compliance with the requirements of the IPPC Directive by 30 October 2007. Furthermore, the operation of such an installation is subject to Directive 2006/66/EC OJ L 266, 26.9.2006, p. 1 . on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and repealing Directive 91/157/EEC (the Batteries Directive). Article 12 of the Batteries Directive requires that Member States ensure that no later than 26 September 2009 producers or third parties set up schemes using best available techniques, in terms of the protection of health and the environment, to provide for the treatment and recycling of waste batteries and accumulators. The Commission believes that rules that exist at an EU level are sufficient to ensure the protection of the environment and human health from the effects of battery recycling. However, based on the questions raised by the Honourable Member the Commission will further investigate the measures that have been taken to implement the IPPC Directive and Batteries Directive for the installation concerned and will inform the Parliament accordingly.