WRITTEN QUESTION E-5238/09 by Willy Meyer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (26 October 2009) Subject: Fire affecting Las Tablas de Daimiel (Castilla-La Mancha, Spain) We recently became aware of the situation affecting the Las Tablas de Daimiel National Park, located in the province of Ciudad Real, Castilla-La Mancha. The Las Tablas de Daimiel National Park is classed as an SPA under the European Union's Birds Directive and as a biosphere reserve, which is an indication of this ecosystem's importance and of the protection it deserves. This park has been suffering from an intense drought for years. Of what was once a lake of almost 2 000 hectares, only five now remain, and those are flooded using an underground pumping system. Over a period of decades, thousands of wells have been built in the area, drying up the aquifer that once supported Las Tablas. Furthermore, in order to supply crops requiring irrigation on the east coast of Spain water transfers to Las Tablas de Daimiel have been limited. In a few short years the exploitation of the area's water resources has caused the peat in the park's subsoil, which took hundreds of thousands of years to develop, to dry out. When peat dries out, the land cracks and sinks. However, more worrying is that when air penetrates, the peat heats up and catches fire. Wetlands are extremely important ecologically as they regulate the carbon cycle, an element that they store for thousands of years. However, when they burn they become a source of CO 2 emissions. According to the experts, this ecosystem may have reached a point of no return and the only solution to avoid the irreversible destruction of Las Tablas de Daimiel is to flood it as a matter of urgency. Is the Commission aware of the dramatic situation in the Las Tablas de Daimiel National Park? What steps has the Commission taken to enforce Directive 79/409/EEC OJ L 103, 25.4.1979, p. 1. ? What specific measures does the Commission intend to adopt to protect this uniquely important natural area in order to conserve the bird life being threatened by extinction?