accession. He welcomed the remarkable progress that Lithuania had made towards accession and recalled that at one point Lithuania was not part of the " first-wave " of candidate countries for enlargement. Finally, President Cox welcomed the high turnout and the high " yes " vote in Lithuania's referenda for accession to the EU. President Paksas pointed out that he was the first President of Lithuania to address the House. He welcomed the support of the European Parliament for Lithuania over recent years. Lithuania, he stated, had recently celebrated its 750 anniversary as a nation and in that time it had suffered two occupations, one lasting the whole of the 19th century, the other in the second half of the 20th century. President Paksas welcomed the 90% " yes " vote in the Lithuania referendum on accession to the EU. The President stated that Lithuania would play its role as a responsible member of the EU. The goal for accession, he remarked, was to entrench a democratic state. The internal and external security of Lithuania was also a priority of the Lithuanian people and for the Lithuanian government. Making reference to the recent crisis, the President stated " that he had learned painful lessons over the last few days " and that it would give him more energy to progress with reform in Lithuania. The President stated that his country was now entering into a new phase of history and Lithuania's people were its greatest asset. He also stated that Lithuania was a model for the whole Baltic region. The President welcomed the growing inward investment and the growth of the private sector and looked forward completing land reform. The gap between the economies of " old and new" Europe "could not be masked by resolutions " and this was reflected in the transition periods entrenched into the accession treaties. It was essential to bridge the gap between the old and new Member States and it was a duty for Lithuania to use the money it would receive from the EU to the best advantage of Lithuanians. The President also pointed out that Lithuania had accepted " 3 of the 4 freedoms of movement " and thanked those Member States that had signed bilateral agreements to open labour markets to Lithuanians in a few months time. The President stressed the importance of effective telecommunications, transport and energy networks and welcomed progress on the " Via Baltica " (road link between Vilnius and Tallinn) and the Baltica Railway programme. The President did not want to see a growing divergence between the core and periphery in terms of economic and social development. Lithuania, he said, would assist the EU in obtaining the goals of the Lisbon Strategy. Lithuania, the President recalled, would be responsible for managing one-fifth of the Union's external eastern border. He stressed that it would be important for the EU to open up eastwards as long as countries in that region aligned their legislation to that of the EU. Lithuania's greatest achievement in recent years, he said, was good neighbourly relations.