fully in connection with Special Procedures; 17. Stresses that the credibility of the UNHRC will depend on the new nominations for Special Procedures mandate holders in March 2008; 18. Calls for the nomination, as mandate holders, of persons with recognised human rights expertise, relevant experience, independence, impartiality, personal integrity and objectivity, as well as substantial knowledge of the system of Special Procedures; 19. Urges governments, NGOs and relevant professional associations to send the names of eligible candidates for inclusion in the public roster of eligible candidates managed by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights; 20. Calls on the Consultative Group in charge of reviewing candidates for Special Procedures mandates and making recommendations for appointments to the Presidency of the Council to fulfil its mandate in an objective and transparent manner and to base its choices on the criteria of professionalism and personal integrity; 21. Welcomes the renewal of the country mandates of the Special Rapporteur on Sudan and of the Independent Experts on Liberia, Haiti and Burundi; 22. Regrets the EU's support for the HRC's decision to put an end to its expert group on Darfur; notes that the follow-up to the work of the group of experts has been added to the mandate of the Special Rapporteur on Sudan; is therefore concerned at the risk that her mandate will be weakened by increasing the workload of the Special Rapporteur; 23. Encourages, given their important added value, more prudent interruption of mandates of expert groups in the future; 24. Welcomes the renewal of the thematic mandates reviewed so far; 25. Calls on the EU Member States to ensure renewal of the mandates of the Special Rapporteurs on Myanmar and on the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and extension of the mandates of the Independent Experts on Somalia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo; 26. Welcomes the creation of an expert mechanism, with five independent members, on the human rights of indigenous peoples; 27. Encourages the holding by 2008 of discussions on the question of violence against women in all its forms and manifestations, and the setting of priorities for addressing this issue in its future efforts and work programmes, as agreed in General Assembly Resolution 61/143 of 19 December 2006; 28. Notes the adoption, on 18 June 2007, of a Code of Conduct for Special Procedures Mandate Holders; calls on the UNHRC to implement this Code of Conduct in the spirit of Resolution 60/251 and to respect the independence of Special Procedures; 29. Supports the efforts of the Special Procedures Coordination Committee in drafting the appropriate procedure by which the Code of Conduct and other relevant documents, including the Manual of Special Procedures, may be best implemented in such a way as to strengthen their ability to protect and promote human rights; calls on the Special Procedures Coordination Committee to work in an efficient and transparent manner in order to avoid technical debates which could delay substantive debates and hamper the mandates of Special Procedures; Complaint p rocedure 30. Notes that the complaint procedure outlined as part of