He said that 'only so much can be done by public services ..[..].. ultimately it comes down to businessmen and businesswomen ..[..].. investing more money in creating more jobs'. Mr Crowley spoke of the challenges ahead - the lack of investment in proper research and development for example and the relocation of European industry and business outside the EU. He went on to say that we need 'to ensure that the foundations that we put down today will be as strong [in the future] as they are today.' Finally, Mr Crowley stated that 'our best and most valuable assets are our young people'. Without proper investment in education and training, 'we risk losing them'. Rebecca HARMS (Greens/EFA, DE) pointed out that the Lisbon Strategy 'has not solved the problem of the working poor.' She emphasised the need for profits to be distributed equally and spoke of the EP resolution which included 'a special request on central minimum wages' and which had asked the Council and the Commission to take this request on board. Ms Harms went on to say that the Council and the Commission 'need to be aware of marginalisation and tackle this problem ..[..].. particularly in light of the Lisbon Strategy'. She pointed out that it is 'a great pity that neither institution has addressed that suggestion from the EP'. Ms Harms referred to comments made by a representative of the German Federal Government who had inferred that environmental policy should not interfere with industrial policy. Ms Harms commented that 'it seems to me that they don't understand what sustainability means'. She concluded by speaking about the Mediterranean union which she claimed demonstrated that 'the EU has no unified policy, either on energy or security of energy supply'. Gabriele ZIMMER (GUE/NGL, DE) began by stating that 'today we celebrate 50 years of the EP' and commenting that 'I think that what it tells us is that in future neither the Council or the Commission are going to have a docile or patient EP because it will be incumbent on us to give a voice to those who are neglected'. Referring to the Lisbon Strategy, Ms Zimmer suggested that the summit conclusions should 'spare a line for those who have been the subject of social exclusion'. She emphasised that it is 'not just a matter of us protesting against aggressive globalisation'. Ms Zimmer pointed out that combating poverty, social exclusion and divisions in society 'is not being put high enough on the agenda'. In conclusion, Ms Zimmer asked how the social dimension of the Lisbon strategy was being put into effect?; what practical steps will be taken to ensure its implementation?; and how can we ensure that the energy crisis will not damage social cohesion? Jens-Peter BONDE (IND/DEM, DK)spoke of the proposal he has drafted, together with his Irish colleagues, Kathy Sinnott, to add a new protocol to the Lisbon Treaty which would address the issues which arose during the Laval case and 'outlaw ..[..].. the revolutionary decision by the European Court from 18 December last year'. Mr Bonde referred to