17 January 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Mr Davies and Mrs Thors on behalf of the ELDR Group on the maritime disaster of the French coast Resolution on the maritime disaster off the French coast The European Parliament, - having regard to Directive 93/75/EEC concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods OJ L 247, 5.10.1993, p. 19. , - having regard to Directive 95/21/EC concerning the enforcement, in respect of shipping using Community ports and sailing in the waters under the jurisdiction of the Member States, of international standards for ship safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living and working conditions (port State control) OJ L 157, 7.7.1995, p. 1. , - having regard to the proposal for a European Parliament and Council decision setting up a Community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution ( COM(1998) 769 ) OJ C 25, 30.1.1999, p. 20. and its opinion thereon of 16 September 1999 Minutes of that Sitting, Part II, Item 8. , A. considering the sinking of the Maltese-registered tanker Erika in December 1999 off the coast of France and a similar disaster in Turkish waters, B. whereas the sinking of the Erika led to an oil slick which has polluted a significant area of the French coast and caused considerable damage to local wildlife, especially the bird population, C. whereas the French food safety agency (AFFSA) has recommended a complete fishing ban along the 160 km stretch affected by the oil spill, D. whereas such incidents raise once again the question of maritime safety standards, and international respect thereof, during transportation of potentially hazardous goods by sea, E. whereas the Erika catastrophe also illustrates the need for a closer look at the minimum safety and security requirements imposed on so-called 'flags of convenience' which operate in EU waters, 1. Welcomes the enormous efforts to clean up the affected beaches by both NGOs and considerable numbers of local volunteers; 2. Notes the considerable financial cost of a fishing ban, particularly on those involved in shellfish production; 3. Calls on the authorities involved in the clean-up operation to ensure that the oil spill is prevented from being washed upstream causing further pollution inland; 4. Appreciates the international effort to rescue birds, although some 300 000 are already thought to have died; 5. Is of the opinion that the 'polluter pays' principle should be applied to both the owners of the Maltese-registered tanker and the owners of the cargo; 6. Hopes that the forthcoming White Paper on environmental liability will leave EU companies in no doubt as to their responsibility for the production and transport of potentially hazardous products; 7. Calls on the Commission to present a revised European shipping register (EUROS) to ensure the safety of shipping in EU waters and the protection of Member States’ coastal regions; 8. Calls for the earliest possible adoption by the Council of the Community framework for cooperation in the