1467/97, it should be adopted in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure referred to in Article 121(6). (15) Since the objective to create a uniform sanction mechanism cannot be sufficiently achieved at the level of the Member States, the Union may adopt measures in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective. (15a) In order to ensure a permanent dialogue with the Member States aiming at achieving the objectives of this Regulation, the Commission should carry out surveillance missions. (15b) A broad evaluation of the economic governance system and in particular of the effectiveness and adequacy of its sanctions should be undertaken by the Commission at regular intervals. Such evaluations should be complemented by relevant proposals if necessary. (15c) When implementing this Regulation, the Commission should take into account the current economic situation of the Member States concerned, HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Chapter I Subject matter Article 1 Subject matter and scope 1. This Regulation sets out a system of sanctions for enhancing the enforcement of the preventive and corrective parts of the Stability and Growth Pact in the euro area. 2. This Regulation shall apply to Member States whose currency is the euro. Chapter Ia Economic dialogue Article 1a In order to enhance the dialogue between the Union institutions, in particular the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, and to ensure greater transparency and accountability, the competent committee of the European Parliament may invite the President of the Council, the Commission and, where appropriate, the President of the Eurogroup to appear before the committee to discuss decisions taken pursuant to Articles 3, 4 and 5 of this Regulation. The competent committee of the European Parliament may offer the opportunity to the Member State concerned by such decisions to participate in an exchange of views. Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Regulation: (1) “the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact” means the multilateral surveillance system as organised by Regulation (EC) No 1466/97 of July 1997; (2) “the corrective part of the Stability and Growth Pact” means the procedure for the avoidance of Member States' excessive deficit as regulated by Article 126 of the Treaty and Regulation (EC) No 1467/97 of 7 July 1997; (3) “exceptional economic circumstances” means circumstances where an excess of a government deficit over the reference value is considered exceptional within the meaning of the second indent of Article 126(2)(a) of the Treaty and as specified in Regulation (EC) No 1467/97. Chapter II Sanctions in the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact Article 3 Interest-bearing deposit 1. If the Council adopts a decision establishing that a Member State failed to take action in response to the Council recommendation referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 6(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1466/97, the Commission shall, within 20 days of adoption of the Council recommendation,