a programme of Community action in the field of public health (2003-2008) OJ L 271, 9.10.2002, p. 1. and other monitoring activities such as those carried out by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control established by Regulation (EC) No 851/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 establishing a European centre for disease prevention and control OJ L 142, 30.4.2004, p. 1. . ( 53 ) The constant progress of medical science and health technologies presents both opportunities and challenges to the health systems of the Member States. However, the assessment of health technologies and the possible restriction of access to new technologies by certain decisions by administrative bodies raise a number of fundamental social issues which require contributions from a wide range of stakeholders and the establishment of a viable governance model. Accordingly any cooperation should involve not only the competent authorities of all the Member States but also all the stakeholders concerned, including health professionals and representatives of patients and industry. Moreover, this cooperation should be based on viable principles of good governance such as transparency, openness, objectivity and the impartiality of procedures. ( 54 ) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. ║ . (55) In particular, ║ the Commission should be empowered to adopt , in collaboration with relevant experts and stakeholders, a list of specific criteria and conditions that European reference networks must fulfil and the procedure for establishing European reference networks. Since those measures are of general scope and are designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive by supplementing it with new non-essential elements, they must be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scutiny provided for in Article 5a of Decision 1999/468/EC. ( 56 ) Since the objective of this Directive, namely establishing ║ a general framework for provision of safe, high-quality and efficient cross-border healthcare in the European Union, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale of the action, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty. In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Directive does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective . (57) The Member State of affiliation and the Member State of treatment should by prior bilateral cooperation and in consultation with the patient ensure that appropriate aftercare and support is made available in either Member State following the authorised medical treatment and that clear information is made available to patients about aftercare options and costs. To do this, Member States should adopt measures to ensure that the necessary medical and social care data are transferred with due regard to patient confidentiality and that medical and social