Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (3 March 2009) In response to the questions raised by the Honourable Member in relation to the killing of cetaceans in the Faroe Islands, the Commission would like to make the following observations. The Commission is aware of and concerned about the hunting of long-finned pilot whales (Calderon dolphins) in the Faroe Islands. The Commission is fully committed to the protection of all cetaceans (whales, dolphins and porpoises) and would like to recall that within the EU, the capture or killing of cetaceans is prohibited under Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora OJ L 206, 22.7.1992. , which includes obligations arising from the Convention on the Conservation of European Wildlife and Natural Habitats, also known as the Bern Convention. The sale or exchange of cetaceans is also prohibited by Member States according to the same directive. In addition, the introduction of cetaceans into the Community for primarily commercial purpose is banned, pursuant to Council Regulation 338/97/EC on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein OJ L 61, 3.3.1997. , which implements the provisions of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) in the EU. The pilot whale hunt mentioned is conducted in the Faroe Islands, which is not part of the EU, so EU legislation and policy do not apply there. Moreover, while Denmark is a member of the Bern Convention, in its instrument of ratification it made a declaration stating that the Convention does not apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Accordingly, the Commission has unfortunately limited possibilities to intervene directly in this case. The Commission, knowing that there are very few means available to interfere as regards third countries' rights to hunt pilot whales within their own waters will, however, look into the best possible ways to raise this sensitive issue with the relevant authorities. In addition, it is worth recalling that at international level whales are protected by the International Whaling Commission (IWC) which is an international organisation for the conservation and management of whales. Unfortunately, however, the hunting of pilot whales is not regulated by the IWC, as to date there is no agreement about the IWC's competence for small cetaceans. In the context of the ongoing debate about the future of the IWC, the Commission does hope, however, that the EU together with other parties to the IWC will be able to also address the issue of small cetaceans.