on behalf of the ALDE Group, Valdemar Tomaševski , on behalf of the ECR Group, and Bernhard Rapkay , on behalf of the S&D Group . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 1.12.2011, item 6.22 and minutes of 1.12.2011, item 6.23 . 14 Preparations for the European Council meeting (8-9 December 2011) (debate) Council and Commission statements: Preparations for the European Council meeting (8-9 December 2011) Mikołaj Dowgielewicz (President-in-Office of the Council) and Olli Rehn (Vice-President of the Commission) made the statements. The following spoke: Paulo Rangel , on behalf of the PPE Group , who also replied to a blue-card question by Ilda Figueiredo , Martin Schulz , on behalf of the S&D Group , who also replied to a blue-card question by Barry Madlener , Guy Verhofstadt , on behalf of the ALDE Group , who also replied to a blue-card question by Derk Jan Eppink , Jan Zahradil , on behalf of the ECR Group, Rebecca Harms , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, and Lothar Bisky , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group . IN THE CHAIR: Roberta ANGELILLI Vice-President The following spoke: Bastiaan Belder , on behalf of the EFD Group, Barry Madlener , Non-attached Member, Mario Mauro , Elisa Ferreira , Philippe Lamberts , Mario Borghezio who also replied to a blue-card question by Bernd Posselt , Constance Le Grip who also replied to a blue-card question by Barry Madlener , Roberto Gualtieri , Jacek Saryusz-Wolski , Anni Podimata , Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz , Marietta Giannakou , Theodor Dumitru Stolojan and Bogusław Sonik . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Danuta Jazłowiecka , Czesław Adam Siekierski , Georgios Koumoutsakos , Juan Fernando López Aguilar , Ana Gomes , Phil Prendergast , Ilda Figueiredo , Angelika Werthmann and Andrew Henry William Brons . The following spoke: Olli Rehn and Mikołaj Dowgielewicz . The debate closed. 15 Accession Treaty : Treaty concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia *** - Application of Croatia to become a member of the European Union (debate) Recommendation on the draft Decision of the Council of the European Union on the admission of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union [14409/2011 - 2011/0805(NLE) ] - Committee on Foreign Affairs. Rapporteur: Hannes Swoboda ( A7-0390/2011 ) Report on the application of Croatia to become a Member of the European Union [ 2011/2191(INI) ] - Committee on Foreign Affairs. Rapporteur: Hannes Swoboda ( A7-0389/2011 ) Hannes Swoboda introduced the reports. IN THE CHAIR: Rodi KRATSA-TSAGAROPOULOU Vice-President The following spoke: Mikołaj Dowgielewicz (President-in-Office of the Council) and Štefan Füle (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Göran Färm (rapporteur for the opinion of the BUDG Committee), Rafał Trzaskowski (rapporteur for the opinion of the AFCO Committee), Bernd Posselt , on behalf of the PPE Group, Kristian Vigenin , on behalf of the S&D Group, Ivo Vajgl , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Charles Tannock , on behalf of the ECR Group , who also replied to a blue-card question by Bernd Posselt , Ulrike Lunacek , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group