in particular by maintaining educational efforts in universities with an emphasis on organising joint post-graduate studies in the fields of nuclear engineering and radiation protection ; and to promote safety as a priority. Justification This amendment is related to the amendment by the same author to bullet 2 of the ‘Activities’ section. A socio-technical approach to production management will undoubtedly help to promote safety at nuclear installations. Adequate professional staff will be required for this purpose. The second part of the amendment refers to the current situation where the best students opt for work areas other than fission which enjoy higher social status. It is important to remedy this trend as the lack of good staff may result in reduced reliability and serious safety problems . A special training effort has to be made in the fields of nuclear engineering and radiation protection. Since this effort necessitates a concentration of expertise, research infrastructures and financial resources, joint post-graduate studies at European level can be supported by the Euratom . In order to guarantee at the highest level the safety of nuclear power plants, continuing the EU excellent safety record, and the proper management of long-lived waste, support should be given to training activities for researchers, engineers and employees and measures should be taken to encourage young scientists to start their career in the field of nuclear energy. In the training, particular emphasis should be given to promoting safety as a priority. Amendment 21 Annex 1, subtitle "Nuclear activities of the Joint Research Centre", subtitle "Rationale", paragraph 1 The Joint Research Centre supports the objectives of the European strategy for energy supply, particularly to help matching the Kyoto objectives. The EU has recognised competence in many aspects of nuclear technology, and this is built on a solid basis of past successes in the domain. The usefulness of the JRC in its support to EU policies and in its contribution to the new trends in nuclear research are based on its scientific expertise and its integration in the international scientific community. On the one hand, the JRC has competent staff and state-of-the-art facilities to carry out recognized scientific/technical work ; and on the other hand it supports the policy of the EU to maintain basic competencies and expertise for the future by training young scientists and fostering their mobility. New demand has emerged in particular in the external relations and security related policies. In these cases, in-house and secure information/analyses/systems are needed which cannot always be obtained on the market. In supporting the objectives of the European Union, the Joint Research Centre shall have specific tasks related to: - Global Security, particularly through its participation in developing techniques and methods for efficient safeguards, to combat illegal trafficking and for nuclear forensic matters; - Enlargement of the EU, because this has involved (and will involve) new types of reactors and other nuclear installations ; - Energy supply, by contributing to new techniques for a nuclear fuel cycle in line with the principles of sustainable development. . The Joint Research Centre has competent staff and facilities