WRITTEN QUESTION E-4220/08 by Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou (PPE‑DE) to the Council (23 July 2008) Subject: Effectiveness and future of the Erasmus programme In his recent report to the President of the Republic of France, Mr Alain Lamassoure, MEP, points out that even though the Erasmus programme is one of the most high-profile Community programmes, every year only 2.3 % See report by Alain Lamassoure, MEP, to the President of the Republic of France, p. 22. of European students take part in it and that they face serious problems both in transferring to their host university and after their return to their university of origin, particularly as regards the mutual recognition of qualifications and study programmes. At the same time, the Commission has recognised that many students are being discouraged from taking part in the programme for social and economic reasons See the answer by Commissioner Figel to Written Question E‑1886/08: http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getAllAnswers.do?reference=E‑2008-1886&language=EN , and that so far funding for the programme has not matched its ambitious objectives. In view of the above and also the fact that the promotion of student mobility is one of the French Presidency's priorities, will the Council say: 1. What is the cause of the limited mobility of European students and what specific measures is it proposing to increase the number of students who take advantage of the Erasmus programme? In view of the similarly poor mobility of researchers within Europe, particularly given the number of researchers going to the USA Commission report of 23 May 2008 ‘Better careers and more mobility: a European partnership for researchers’, COM(2008)0317, p. 5. , does the Council support the promotion of a cohesive policy for student mobility in Europe? 2. How can the practical and bureaucratic problems facing students taking part in the programme be addressed, particularly given the EU's restricted competence as regards education and the autonomy of European universities? 3. What view does it take of the way in which the Erasmus programme is funded at present?