P6_TA(2008)0113 Rights-based management tools in fisheries A6-0060/2008 European Parliament resolution of 10 April 2008 on rights-based management tools in fisheries ( 2007/2111(INI) ) The European Parliament , – having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002 of 20 December 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the Common Fisheries Policy OJ L 358, 31.12.2002, p. 59. Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) 865/2007 (OJ L 192, 24.7.2007, p. 1). , – having regard to the Communication from the Commission on the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy ("Roadmap") ( COM(2002)0181 ), – having regard to the Communication from the Commission on rights-based management tools in fisheries ( COM(2007)0073 ), – having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Fisheries ( A6-0060/2008 ), A. whereas, in its Green Paper on the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP), the Commission expressed the opinion that alternative management mechanisms can play a significant complementary role in Community fisheries management, B. whereas the Commission has initiated a debate on Rights-Based Management (RBM) in fisheries, C. whereas a number of stakeholders have already submitted contributions to the debate, D. whereas there have previously been a number of studies of RBM but none of them has covered all the coastal Member States of the EU, E. whereas, however, a number of studies have considered the operation and effects of systems both within and outside the EU that allow the transfer of fishing rights for economic value, F. whereas the Commission has now issued a call for tender for a study, G. whereas the Commission has stated that it has no current plans for altering existing management systems but has, equally, expressed its intention to introduce changes in the operation of the CFP and is therefore seeking viable alternatives, H. whereas the current fisheries management systems in the European Union, specifically the system of TACs and quotas, do not provide an answer to the sector's problems, and it is necessary and fundamental to hold a wide-ranging debate on this question, assessing the positive and negative aspects of the possible adoption of new management systems, I. whereas it is therefore important to consider ways in which improvements might be made in the operation of the CFP, in particular through the fisheries management policy, whose current shortcomings are evident, J. whereas any changes will not amount to improvements unless they ensure that resources are exploited in a manner that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions, 1. Welcomes the fact that the Commission has opened a debate on RBM in fisheries in anticipation of the necessary modification of the existing management policy; 2. Considers that marine biological resources are a common public good; 3. Believes that the rights involved should not be understood as property rights but as a kind of usufruct or a right to harvest and subject, accordingly, to appropriate limitations; 4. Recognises also, however, that there are separately identifiable systems of RBM that are based on different understandings: a) as to