Question for written answer E-4321/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Kartika Tamara Liotard (GUE/NGL) (11 June 2010) Subject: Commercial sponsoring of Green Week 2010 Commercial companies such as Coca-Cola, UNICA and ACE (the Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment) are sponsoring Green Week 2010. 1. What interest does the Commission think ultimately weighs more heavily with these parties in their decisions: the environment or profit-making? If the Commission thinks that the environment really is an important factor for the above parties, 2. Is the Commission aware that: — earlier this year Coca-Cola was found guilty by a government committee in Kerala (India) of depleting and polluting Indian water supplies? — UNICA is promoting the cultivation of sugarcane in Brazil, despite the fact that this is having a devastating effect on biodiversity and occurring at the expense of grasslands, forested savannah and even whole forests? — the representative of ACE, the Stora Enso company, is involved in encouraging large-scale monoculture eucalyptus plantations in Latin America, which are having a disastrous effect on people and the environment? 3. If so, why does the Commission find it appropriate for these companies to have the chance in Green Week 2010 to present themselves as environmentally-aware, ‘green’ players? I find it utterly unacceptable for the Commission to be making itself financially dependent on companies that damage the environment to organise a Green Week. Please comment! 4. Is it normal for the Commission to allow important meetings organised by the authorities to be sponsored by commercial companies? If so, how does the Commission expect to be able to prevent conflicts of interest in such cases? 5. Coca-Cola, UNICA and ACE are all being given speaking time during Green Week. Would they have been given just as much speaking time if they had not been sponsors? 6. If so, are speakers from commercial establishments being given just as much speaking time, or a seat on the policy committee, during Green Week without having a role as sponsors?