take forward negotiations on extending the scope of EU-US Energy Star cooperation to other products, in line with the commitment made at the EU-US summit of 30 April 2007; 19. Welcomes the proposal to establish by 2010 minimum performance standards for all other significant energy-using appliances and equipment; calls on the Commission to start with the least energy-efficient products on the market; 20. Supports the Commission in its efforts to formulate criteria for the eco-labelling of heating and cooling technologies, covering in particular primary energy use, with a view to ensuring that users are guaranteed reliable information on the most effective and environmentally-friendly options available on the market for equipment for the heating and cooling of buildings; 21. Urges rigorous implementation of the 2006 requirements relating to the installation of smart meters in order to raise consumer awareness of electricity use, to help electricity suppliers manage demand more effectively and to help improve the requirements relating to energy-efficiency statistics; 22. Calls for the formulation of a standard for intelligent heat meters to be used in central heating systems and remote heating networks with a view to encouraging end users to behave more responsibly ('pay for what you use') and to getting rid of fixed-cost systems, which have the opposite effect; 23. Takes the view that industrial technologies should ensure that less energy is used in production processes; believes that considerable energy savings could be made by reducing the weight of road vehicles and other means of transport; Building performance requirements 24. Urges the Commission to expedite infringement procedures against those Member States which have not properly transposed or fully implemented Directive 2002/91/EC; 25. Given the long life of buildings, notes the paramount importance of ensuring that new buildings are constructed to the highest energy-efficiency standards possible and that existing buildings are upgraded to contemporary standards; considers that the demolition of energy-inefficient buildings, combined with the construction of new energy - efficient buildings, might sometimes be supported as an alternative to refurbishment; 26. Calls on the Commission to revise Directive 2002/91/EC so as to include, within the scope of Article 6 from 2009 onwards, all buildings requiring heating or cooling, regardless of their size; 27. Calls on the Commission, in its review of the performance of boilers, to have regard to the fact that cogeneration (micro combined heat and power) boilers are by far the most efficient, and to set minimum performance requirements for boilers accordingly; 28. Welcomes the proposal to lay down minimum performance requirements for new and renovated buildings and for building components such as windows and window films; 29. Calls on the Commission to propose a binding requirement that all new buildings needing to be heated and/or cooled be constructed to passive house or equivalent non-residential standards from 2011 onwards, and a requirement to use passive heating and cooling solutions from 2008; 30. Calls on the Commission to consider the gradual introduction of district heating and cooling grids for all buildings in order to reduce fossil fuel use in heating and cooling by utilising the losses occurring in the transformation