Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (1 September 2005) 1. In reply to the Honourable Member’s question concerning whether the Commission supports unilateral measures taken by the Member States themselves, the Commission reiterates that any direct or indirect national public financial aid to economic activity has to be notified to the Commission, in order to determine its compatibility with Community rules. 2. Concerning ways of supporting the fishing industry, the Commission considers that insofar as the fisheries sector already enjoys a specific status in the Energy Tax Directive Council Directive 2003/96/EC of 27 October 2003 restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, OJ L 283, 31.10.2003. , benefiting from a possibility of a full tax exemption on fuel, other existing possibilities of assistance are essentially limited to the assignment of the amounts provided for in the Commission regulation on de minimis aid Commission Regulation (EC) No 1860/2004 on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to de minimis aid in the agriculture and fisheries sectors, OJ L 325, 28.10.2004. . Aid for temporary cessation of fishing activities under Article 16 of the current FIFG (Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance) regulation is also possible as is aid for change of fishing techniques with the objective of more fuel efficiency under Article 9.1(C) of the same regulation. These are aid measures that could be made use of immediately. Furthermore, the Commission is currently considering different possibilities to support the fishing industry and engaging with the industry in a reflection on medium to long term measures. Such measures are broad in scope and are not intended as specific counter measures to tackle the rise in fuel prices. They will, however, address the concerns of the sector with regard to the need to attain long term sustainability. The Commission is therefore currently studying the de minimis threshold for fisheries, funding measures aimed at better fuel efficiency achieving improved environmental standards and generally attaining the objectives set by the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy; and other measures aimed at the rescue and restructuring of the fishing industry.