Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (1 August 2006) In the last 12 months, after the Parliament Report on Exploitation and Child Labour, the Commission has taken a number of actions in response to the report. Following the adoption of the European Consensus in December 2005, where a special emphasis is placed on the situation of working children — including those engaged in worst forms of child labour — the subsequent follow up strategies adopted by the Commission for Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, reflect the Commission's commitment to protect children from poverty, marginalisation and abuse. This is in line with the EC strategic partnership with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) since 2001, whereby the Commission strongly supports the ILO decent work agenda, which includes fight against child labour in all its forms as per ILO conventions No 182 on the worst forms of child labour and No 138 on the minimum age for admission to employment. The Commission takes every occasion to encourage its partners in all geographical areas to ratify and effectively implement the above mentioned conventions. Furthermore, the Commission adopted on 24 May 2006 a communication on ‘Promoting decent work for all — the EU contribution to the implementation of the decent work agenda in the world’ COM(2006)249 final and SEC(2006)643. . It affirms the commitment of the Commission to contribute to the effective implementation of the decent work through a comprehensive approach and it proposes to mobilise both EU internal and external policies. On 4 July 2006, the Commission adopted the communication ‘Towards a strategy on the rights of the child’ COM(2006)367 final. . The process leading to this crucial communication has already triggered an intense coordination across 15 Directorates-General of the Commission to deal with the EU and global issues related to children’s rights and needs. It will now allow a formal coordination mechanism with a child coordinator and an inter-service group, a Consultation Forum of the Child, the setting‑up of screening, monitoring and mainstreaming schemes to promote children's rights, and attention to the participation of children, in coherence with the United Nations (UN) Convention of the Rights of the Child. These processes will lead to a long term EU strategy to more effectively address children's rights and needs, and fight neglect of their rights or abuse, such as child labour. During 2006, the Commission will also improve the attention given to children's rights and needs through an action plan on children and development cooperation. This action plan will aim at identifying opportunities for improved mainstreaming and identification of specific actions in the national and regional indicative programmes and the programming of actions at inter-regional and global levels. In the meantime, the Commission has been identifying additional programmes at country level to fight child abuse (e.g. South Africa), to improve juvenile justice (e.g. Cameroon), to improve birth registration (e.g. Bangladesh) or to support social protection for human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) (e.g. Lesotho, Swaziland). The Commission has also approved a programme which allocated EUR 15 million to the fight against all