Era Assets on 3 December 1998, 44 States including all EU Member States adopted ‘non-binding’ principles and morally undertook to return looted cultural goods. The participating States recognised the mass of looted cultural goods still in circulation and enacted eleven recommendations by which they agreed to (i) take all measures to identify and distribute a list of works of art of doubtful origin, (ii) develop mechanisms allowing the resolution of ownership issues and taking into account the difficulties claimants often have to establish their title, and (iii) ease the requirements regarding the burden of proof faced by claimants seeking return of looted property. The follow-up October 2000 Vilnius International Forum on Holocaust Era Looted Cultural Assets aimed at bringing the Washington principles and the Council of Europe Resolution into effect The reference to the ‘Holocaust Era’ should not be taken to indicate that these initiatives were concerned only with art looted from Jews. During the period in question, large numbers of individuals and groups throughout Europe were victims of such looting, carried out by a variety of perpetrators. . Some EU Member States and third countries such as Russia The Russian Parliament modified its law on cultural assets in 2000. have recently adopted measures for victims of looted art, for example examination of recovery claims A Bundesrat Resolution regarding the ‘Modernisation of the Law of Obligations Act’ ( Gesetz sur Modernisierung des Schuldrechts) reaffirmed the Berlin declaration and made it clear that the recent legislation was not intended to alter German law to cut off looted art claims (Autumn 2001). , relaxation of the rules of tort and property law, such as limitation periods, and the establishment of Parliamentary Commissions to study this subject. At European level, Directive 93/7/EEC of 15 March 1993 addressed the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State. This Directive aimed to establish cooperation between Member States and create mutual recognition of the relevant national laws in the field of cultural national treasures. However, it did not establish a level playing field for individual claims, which must still rely on extremely varied national legal requirements. The Parliament has subsequently adopted two resolutions on the issue of looted cultural goods, one in 1995 OJ C17, 22.01.1996. on the return of plundered property to Jewish communities and the other, on the restitution of property belonging to Holocaust victims, in 1998 OJ C292, 21.09.1998 . Thus the European Union has rightly taken steps to recognise the historical fact of art-looting between 1933 and 1945, but it has not yet established a comprehensive framework to resolve the remaining legal problems arising from looted art, which have an effect on the freedom of circulation of all works of art in the Internal Market. Need for EU Action on a European Legal Problem The legal situation in this area is at present entirely unclear, so that museums, art dealers, victims and heirs have been unable to recover looted goods or fill the gap in provenance of art ownership. Claimants face a bewildering array of legal problems, many driven