on 1 May 2004, is rich in opportunities, but will also pose challenges as regards real and nominal convergence. The most important of these will be to determine how quick the transition to the single European currency should be in each case. The experience of most of the accession countries reveals a high level of complementarity between nominal convergence and the progress of real growth rates, sustained by structural reforms and progressive tax consolidation. Progress towards adoption of the euro must entail a period of exchange rate stability, together with efforts to achieve price convergence and to reform public finances that will undoubtedly be demanding. Nevertheless, recent progress offers grounds for hope that the future accession of new members to the Eurosystem will bring all the benefits of the single European currency. Lastly, I should point out that the extension of the euro's frontiers will also provide the common monetary policy with a challenge it cannot overlook, namely the need to continue conducting a monetary policy geared to price stability in the context of an economic situation marked by greater heterogeneity among countries. In this respect, the threat to the maintenance of price stability cannot be overstated, once it is recognised that some of these disparities are inherent to the approximation process and will lessen once the sustainable nominal convergence criteria have been met and the single currency joined. Nevertheless, preventing the emergence of price tensions, as well as possible transitory phenomena related to the catching up process, will be largely a matter for the countries themselves, since fiscal imbalances and other structural rigidities are a major source of inflation rate differentials. These measures, together with a reform of the decision-making mechanisms within the Executive Board of the European Central Bank to ensure efficient and appropriate decision-making, offer grounds for taking an optimistic view of the future of the euro in an enlarged European Union. Thank you for your attention.