implemented in a manner supportive of WTO members" right to protect public health and, in particular, to promote access to medicines for all"; 53. Encourages the Commission and India to work together, on the basis of permanent and continuous contacts, to push the Doha Development Agenda (DDA) forward to a final and successful conclusion benefiting all parties concerned; 54. With this in view, believes that it should be possible for Indian and European negotiators to establish direct and permanent links for addressing bilateral and multilateral topics; this will help to secure balanced and mutually beneficial progress on the main points of the Doha Development Agenda; 55. Calls on the EU and India to study as soon as possible the possibilities for joint action in cooperative development projects in third countries and to take the necessary steps to push these forward once their feasibility has been confirmed; 56. Welcomes the fact that both parties have agreed to hold the first meeting of the EU-India Environmental Forum in October/November 2005 and calls on the Commission to devote special attention to those areas which are priorities for India, such as renewable energies, clean technologies and the treatment of waste, and to provide all possible assistance; 57. Calls on the Indian Government to take firm and effective measures to prevent the occurrence of the phenomenon of dumping in its trade with the EU; Environment and agriculture 58. Stresses that the increasing environmental destruction in India is a constantly growing problem, particularly for the poor population, in terms of water pollution, land degradation, air pollution, climate change and loss of biodiversity, and stresses the particular urgency of pressing ahead with EU cooperation with India in this field; 59. Urges India, which has signed the Kyoto Protocol but which enjoys a temporary derogation from certain commitments, to show greater sensitivity to the question of global warming, while pursuing its development needs and objectives in a reasonable manner compatible with sustainable development; 60. Is concerned at the alarming drop in the number of tigers to be found in the country's major nature reserves and calls on the Indian authorities to step up their efforts to combat the corruption and incompetence responsible for this decline; 61. Considers that the supervisory and control measures designed to protect this animal should be stepped up, particularly in the states of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar; with this in view, urges that the recently established National Wildlife Crime Prevention Bureau be given the necessary resources to enable it to operate effectively; 62. Calls on the Commission to concern itself with this matter and ensure the appropriate cooperation, since tigers are not only significant for India's ecosystem and important for the country's tourist sector, but can also be seen as part of mankind's heritage; 63. Calls on the Member States potentially able to cooperate in the field of civilian-use nuclear energy to give due consideration to India's enormous and growing energy requirements and to take a decision on the possibility of increasing cooperation with India in this area; also urges the Commission, the Member States