public access to documentation held by the Community institutions, D. regretting that the European Ombudsman, the 'instigator' of the report, was not consulted by the Commission on the White Paper, E. whereas the European Parliament unanimously ruled in favour of strengthening the powers of inquiry of the European Ombudsman removing all restrictions to testimonies by officials and other servants of the Community, F. whereas European citizens will be all the more able to identify and communicate with the Union and its institutions if the latter adopt policies more attuned to international challenges which are clearly explained to the public and meet the expectations of public opinion, 1. Regrets that the White Paper makes no reference to the institution of the petition to the European Parliament and complaints to the European Ombudsman, particularly given that the Commission makes a much appreciated and frequently decisive contribution to the processing of petitions in the interest of the European citizen; 2. Regrets that although the White Paper mainly deals with matters falling under good administration, the Commission has not been able to take a position on the European Parliament's and the European Ombudsman's initiative on good administration, which was finalised in September A5-0245/2001 ; 3. Finds it deplorable that the draft code of good administration does not serves as point of departure when the Commission elaborates concrete actions to follow the White Paper; 4. Regrets that the Commission does not mention the new regulations on access to documents in the White Paper, since it is evident that a proper implementation of these rules and the allocation of adequate resources to that end are of paramount importance for the achievement of good governance in the EU; 5. Asks the Commission to strengthen its capacity to advice citizens on the application of community law and to that end increase the resources available to the Eurojus-network; 6. Calls on the Commission, in order to ' give priority to consideration of any infringements of Community law ' – as it has expressed the intention of doing – not to hesitate to initiate measures possibly leading to proceedings for non-compliance before the Court of Justice of the European Community against Member States under Article 226 of the Treaty; 7. Calls on the Commission to consider what instruments could be introduced to consolidate the right of petition so as to meet the growing expectations of European citizens petitioning the European Parliament and calls on it at the same time to consider new procedures and new instruments enabling precautionary measures to be taken each time an infringement of Community law is noted by the Committee on Petitions Parliament or the Commission itself.