Answer given by Mr Figel' on behalf of the Commission (22 October 2008) The regulation (EC) No 294/2008 establishing the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) OJ L 97, 9.4.2008. was adopted by the Council and the Parliament on 11 March 2008. The EIT's first Governing Board was appointed on 30 July 2008 and is composed of 18 high-level members from business and academic backgrounds and with a proven track record in innovation. There is growing consensus among the research, business and academia communities that the EIT represents a timely, ambitious initiative at European level, which will contribute to boost innovation in Europe. The significant responses received from stakeholders, especially in the open consultation process that led up to the nomination of the EIT Board members, clearly confirms such interest. The budgetary authority has earmarked EUR 308 million (not 2.4 billion) from the EU budget for the period 2008‑13. The EU contribution will help to kick start and support the activities, but is not meant to be the only source of funding. Rather, it will act as leverage to attract other sources, notably private investment. The EIT complements existing European and national initiatives, by integrating at EU level the three sides of the ‘Knowledge Triangle’: partners from business, research and academia, who are excellent in their respective fields. For the first time, higher education is a fully fledged partner in innovation partnerships. Furthermore, business is involved at all levels of the initiative. The Governing Board is not only composed of, but also presided by personalities with a long-standing and highly valuable experience and expertise in business. The EIT is also unprecedented in its scale. It will not only allow existing institutions to acquire the ‘critical mass’ they need to compete on an international scale — since Europe is, as rightly pointed out, a part of the global economy; but it will also — and again for the first time — identify long-term strategic challenges for European society that no single institution, organisation, company or even Member State can tackle alone. Issues such as climate change require an inter- and transdisciplinary approach and a long-term horizon, pooling together in a highly integrated way all the best resources from academia and business across Europe — and beyond.