system relating to this Regulation. 3. In accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 the Member States shall designate an official body responsible for monitoring compliance with Community rules on geographical indication. Amendment 30 Article 10, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. Rightholders may lodge complaints with their national monitoring body and ask that it intervene to protect their registered name. Amendment 31 Article 10, paragraph 3 b (new) 3b. A list of these monitoring bodies shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be regularly updated. Amendment 52 Article 11, paragraph 4 4. Each Member State shall notify the Commission of the name and address of the competent authority referred to in Article 10(3), the name and address of whatever official inspection services are designated and the name and address of delegated private inspection bodies as referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, their respective tasks and any changes to this information. 4. Each Member State shall notify the Commission of the name and address of the competent authority referred to in Article 10(3), the name and address of whatever official inspection services are designated and the name and address of delegated private inspection bodies as referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, their respective competences and any changes to this information. In the case of names referring to a geographical area in a third country, the group shall send the Commission, either direct or via the authorities of the country concerned, the information listed in the first subparagraph. In the case of names referring to a geographical area in a third country, the group shall send the Commission, either direct or via the authorities of the country concerned, the information listed in the first subparagraph. The Commission shall make public the information referred to in the first and second subparagraphs and update it regularly. The Commission shall publish the information referred to in the first and second subparagraphs in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the internet and update it regularly. Amendment 32 Article 11, paragraph 6 6. The costs of the controls referred to in this Article shall be borne by the operators subject to those controls. 6. The costs of the controls referred to in this Article may be borne by the operators subject to those controls. Amendment 33 Article 12, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 a (new) The interested parties within the Member State concerned shall be consulted in respect of any application for cancellation. Amendment 53 Article 12, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. For a period of five years from the date of announcement of the cancellation in the Official Journal of the European Union, the protected name may not be used for registration as a trademark pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 on the Community trade mark 1 or comparable national provisions. Specific provisions may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 15(2). _________________________ 1 OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 1. Amendment 34 Article