Affairs and the opinions of the Committee on Development, the Committee on International Trade and the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality ( A6‑0286/2005 ), A. whereas it should be the task of the European Union, in the interests of the managed migration of workers into the Community and of full employment, to develop a common migration policy in accordance with Community development policy and alongside the effective implementation of the right of freedom of movement of persons within the Community, B. whereas the EU needs to create a genuine European immigration policy as soon as possible, C. whereas economic immigration can help in the management of existing migratory flows, having as one of its important potential effects the reduction of illegal migration, and whereas it can also have the knock-on effect of helping to combat exploitation of illegal immigrants in the black economy and trafficking in people, D. whereas economic migration is only a part of the solution to the Community's demographic and economic difficulties; whereas, in order to meet the challenges of globalisation, efforts should be made to find new solutions in the field of economic policy and the labour market, notably in relation to the balance between professional and family life for women and men and equal pay for equal jobs, E. whereas a European immigration policy must be based on respect for the fundamental rights of the person, pursuant to the international conventions in force, F. having regard to the forecasts concerning the ageing of Europe's active population and the future threats to intergenerational solidarity in Europe, which will generate new needs for both skilled and unskilled labour in all the EU's Member States, G. whereas with regard to immigration the Member States of the European Union have developed from being countries of origin into countries of destination, H. whereas any change in immigration policy in one Member State may affect migratory flows and developments in other Member States, and this is an additional reason for adopting a common immigration policy, I. convinced that, as an area without internal frontiers, the European Union must pursue a common, coherent and effective approach to securing its external borders and devise a common visa, asylum and immigration policy which is based on mutual respect and solidarity and consistent with international human rights obligations in order to guarantee a safe European society; whereas such a policy must respect fundamental rights, include the fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia and regulate migration on a global, balanced and humane basis, J. whereas the deadline for transposition of Council Directive 2003/109/EC of 25 November 2003 concerning the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents OJ L 16, 23.1.2004, p.44. will expire on 23 January 2006, and whereas that directive provides that, if a third‑country national has resided legally in an EU Member State for five years, he/she may acquire long‑term resident status and consequently the right to reside in another EU Member State, K. whereas immigration on economic grounds represents a challenge to the European Union which calls for a common approach rather