which: (a) there is a mandatory procedure under national law whereby aviation security charges, or their maximum level, are to be determined or approved by the independent supervisory authority; or (b) there is a mandatory procedure under national law whereby the independent supervisory authority examines, on a regular basis or in response to requests from interested parties, whether such airports are subject to effective competition. Whenever the situation so warrants on the basis of such an examination, the Member State shall decide that the aviation security charges, or their maximum level, are to be determined or approved by the independent supervisory authority. This decision shall apply for as long as is necessary on the basis of the examination conducted by that authority. The procedures, conditions and criteria applied by the Member State for the purposes of this paragraph shall be relevant, objective, non-discriminatory and transparent. Article 7 Transparency 1. Member States shall ensure that the competent body provides each airport user , or the representatives or associations of airport users, every time consultations as referred to in Article 6(2) are to be held , with information on the components serving as a basis for determining the structure and the level of all security charges levied at each airport. This information shall at least include: (a) a list of the various services and infrastructure provided in return for the security charge levied; (b) the method of calculation of security charges; (c) the overall cost structure with regard to the facilities and services to which security charges relate; (d) the revenue ▌ of the security charges and the total cost of the services covered by them ; (e) the total number of staff deployed to services which give rise to the collection of security charges; (f) any financing from public authorities of the facilities and services to which security charges relate; (g) forecasts of the level of security charges taking into account proposed investments, traffic growth and increased levels of security threats ; (h) any intended investments that may affect significantly the level of security charges. 2. Member States shall ensure that airport users submit information to the competent body before every consultation, as provided for in Article 6, concerning in particular: (a) forecasts as regards traffic; (b) forecasts as to the composition and envisaged use of their fleet; (c) their development projects at the airport concerned; (d) their requirements at the airport concerned; (e) the amount of the security charge levied by airport users on passengers departing from the airport and information on the components serving as a basis for determining these charges in accordance with points (a) to (h) of paragraph 1. 3. Member States shall ensure that information on the amount of security charges levied by the competent body and the airport users is publicly accessible. 4. Subject to national legislation, the information provided on the basis of this Article shall be regarded as confidential or economically sensitive and handled accordingly. In the case of airport managing bodies that are quoted on a stock exchange, stock exchange regulations in particular shall