of the double role of the Appointed Actuary, the UK regulator did not fulfil its obligation to require from ELAS " sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms " as required explicitly by the 3LD, and contrary to Article 8. See Part II Section II.1.1 and Part II Section II.2.3. The committee insists that the role of the Appointed Actuary was central to the UK supervisory system, and that a failure to guarantee the effectiveness of such a figure undermined the whole system of supervision, in particular rendering any internal controls completely inadequate. The committee considers that, once in place and irrespective of whether the concept was required under Community law, the Appointed Actuary became part of the UK regulatory and supervisory system which, as a whole, was subject to the 3LD. Furthermore, certain statements See Baird Report (WE 17), paragraph 2.13.6. lead the committee to believe that this failure formed part of a wider administrative practice which undermined the effectiveness of the safeguards contained in Community legislation. Failure to respect policyholders’ reasonable expectations (PRE) 12. According to some statements made to the committee See Part II Section II.1.1; see also Part II Section II.2.3; see also WE 16, ch.18, para 220, and WE 26, WE 52-54 and LLOYD in H5. , the concept of PRE included the fact that policyholders expected to receive discretionary bonuses in addition to contractual benefits. If UK authorities were obliged to respect PRE as part of their obligations under Community law, the committee considers that they should have also made sure that reserves covered discretionary bonuses. The committee believes that, by not considering discretionary bonuses as an integral part of the company’s entire business and not obliging ELAS to provide adequate technical provisions for them, the UK regulators did not pay due regard to PRE and thereby appear to have breached the letter and aim of Article 18 of the 3LD. 13. The committee recalls that Article 10 of the 3LD required that UK authorities be given the powers and means to ensure that PRE were respected and that any appropriate and necessary measures were taken to ensure that ELAS' business continued to comply with UK law See Part II Section II.1.1. , in order to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the assured persons. 14. Statements made to the committee See Part II Sections II.1.1 and Part II Section II.2.3; see also WE 17. suggest that, during the 1990s, the regulators in the UK did not exercise their extensive powers with respect to ELAS, despite having sufficient indication of the impending crisis. Some accounts See Part II Section II.2.3 and WE 16. indicate that the regulator adopted a conscious and deliberate hands-off approach with regards to the ELAS case. The committee believes that this may have constituted a breach of the regulators’ obligation to ensure respect of PRE and therefore was in breach of the letter and aim of Article 10 of the 3LD. UK regulators' excessive leniency on solvency margin 15. Several statements See Part II Section