‘Adriadne’s thread’ in the form of correlation tables in the notice of transposition sent by Member States to the Commission. Their task would be much easier if " systématiquement chaque directive contienne l'obligation pour les États membres de transmettre une table de concordance de leurs mesures par rapport à la directive et évidemment qu'ils respectent cette obligation. La Commission introduit systématiquement, depuis 2003, une disposition à cet effet, mais le texte final de la directive ne contient pas toujours une disposition exigeant les tables de concordance. La Commission a noté plutôt une amélioration, mais elle plaide avec insistance pour qu'elle soit présente de manière systématique et pour que les États membres la respectent." Mrs. DURAND, H10. To this one must add the fact that these national legislations have to be translated into the 21 official EU languages before they can be examined by the experts. Mrs. DURAND quoted the numbers: " In 2006, the Commission received 10,000 transposition measures in 19-20 languages and 7,000 in Bulgarian and in Romanian" . As most directives contain very technical elements, they can only be verified by the Commission if a proper translation is received. However, translations are not always available. The Commission claims that it tries to take some practical steps to solve this problem. Instead of simply translating everything, the lawyers and translators try to identify together the crucial parts to be translated. The difficulty, in part, is the separation of the technical expertise from the linguistic expertise. For budgetary reasons, it is not possible to have 27 administrators for each and every directive – one for each Member State – or 21 administrators, one for each language. So inevitably the Commission has to work with translations, which entails a certain loss of information. Mr. VOGENAUER referred to a related problem, namely that " there is no common framework of specific legal terminology ", in many areas of European law, so the terms and concepts do not always have " a clear-cut meaning as they would have in domestic legal systems ". Thus the terms used in the different language versions of EU legislation sometimes differ in their legal implications. The question of appropriate ressources is key, as confirmed by Mrs. DURAND: " La Commission a des ressources limitées, qu'elle attribue aux différentes tâches qui sont les siennes et, compte tenu du volume d'infractions que nous avons, cela concerne un nombre de ressources considérable. Peut-être est-on un peu à la limite de nos possibilités pour gérer les 3500 cas en question. Le problème des ressources est un problème sensible ... effectivement, on ne pourra gérer plus efficacement et plus rapidement, et surtout être encore plus proactifs, que si nous disposons des ressources humaines nécessaires. Aucun doute sur la question, compliquée toujours par le problème linguistique." H10 Verbatim, page 10, para.3-4. It is clear that the Commission can only perform adequate monitoring of transposition of the highest of standards if it has more means at its disposal. In the case of the Third Life Directive, the lack of resources made it necessary to contract external