of primary energy to the Community and will progressively become more important players in its internal gas and electricity markets. (8) Among the projects relating to trans-European energy networks, it is necessary to highlight the priority projects, which are very important for the operation of the internal energy market or the security of energy supply. In addition, a declaration of European Interest needs to be established for those projects receiving the highest priority, as well as enhanced coordination, where appropriate. (9) For the purpose of the gathering of information required under this Decision, the Commission and the Member States should, as far as possible, use information on projects of European interest which is already available, in order to avoid duplication of efforts. For example, such information may already be available in the context of Council Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 of 18 September 1995 laying down general rules for the granting of Community financial aid in the field of trans-European Networks OJ L 228, 23.9.1995, p.1. Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1159/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 191, 22.7.2005, p. 16). , in the context of other Community legislation which can provide cofinancing to trans-European network projects and the decisions approving individual projects under such legislation, or in the context of Directives 2003/54/EC and 2003/55/EC concerning common rules for the internal market for electricity and natural gas. (10) The procedure for identifying projects of common interest in the context of trans-European energy networks should ensure the smooth application of Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 . That procedure should distinguish two levels: a first level establishing a restricted number of criteria for the identification of such projects, and a second level describing the projects in detail, referred to as "specifications". (11) Appropriate priority for funding under Regulation (EC) No 2236/95 should be given to projects declared to be of European interest. Member States should, when submitting projects under other Community financial instruments, give particular attention to projects declared to be of European interest. (12) For most projects declared to be of European interest, a significant current or prospective delay could be a delay expected to last between one and two years. (13) Since the project specifications are liable to change, they can only be given by way of indication. The Commission should therefore be empowered to update them. Since the projects may have considerable political, environmental and economic implications, it is important to find the appropriate balance between legislative oversight and flexibility in indentifying projects that deserve potential Community support. (14) When projects of European interest , sections of projects of European interest , or groups of projects of European interest encounter implementation difficulties, a European coordinator can act as a facilitator by encouraging cooperation between all parties concerned, and by ensuring that adequate monitoring is carried out in order to keep the Community informed of progress. The services of a European coordinator should also be made available to other projects, at the request of the Member States concerned . (15) Member States should be invited to