Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (11 June 2010) Directive 2008/6/EC Directive 2008/6/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 20 February 2008 amending Directive 97/67/EC with regard to the full accomplishment of the internal market of Community postal services, OJ L 52, 27.2.2008. marked the final legislative step of the reform of postal markets in Europe which started almost 20 years ago with the Green Paper. This reform has brought many undeniable benefits to European citizens, including: substantial improvements in quality of service, innovative postal delivery service, conversion of European operators into one of the most efficient in the world and the protection of affordable, reliable and efficient universal postal service. This gradual reform process has also been providing Member States with the time to prepare every stage in this process. Each step of the reform has been based on sound factual basis and a thorough analysis of the different issues of importance for the sector, including employment. The principle of a minimum but ambitious universal postal service has been explicitly kept throughout all postal directives and significantly reinforced in the Third Directive, whose adoption was widely supported by both the Parliament and the Council. In the last decades, the economy has changed greatly and postal markets, as many other sectors, have been facing new challenges, in particular from new technologies and means of communication, and have been adapting to these changes, in order to continue to satisfy changing consumer needs. It is within the competency of Member States, according to the principle of subsidiarity, to identify the best approach to ensure an adequate level of employment conditions and social protection in their national labour markets. The Commission will, as usual, continue to monitor Member States' implementation of the working conditions provisions and principles enshrined in the Postal Directive. The Commission also welcomes the work of the European sectoral social dialogue committee for postal services, which brings together employers and workers of the sector to discuss issues of common interest. In 2009 the European social partners received Commission funding for a project observing the social regulation of the sector in nine Member States. The committee is currently discussing the skills needs of the postal services sector to prepare the challenges that lie ahead. The Commission encourages the social partners to continue their work and stands ready to support the social dialogue committee in this regard. The Commission is of the view that there is neither factual nor legal ground to review the agreed timetable and procedure for the liberalisation of postal services. On the contrary, delaying the liberalisation would be counterproductive. It would only accelerate substitution to electronic means of communication and hamper reforms preparing the industry for its greatest chance and challenge: efficient delivery of e-commerce traffic.