Question for written answer E-5480/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Michail Tremopoulos (Verts/ALE) (13 July 2010) Subject: Closing of ethics gap in Code of Conduct for European Commissioners Transparency International (TI) is strongly concerned about the risk of conflict of interest when former European Commissioners assume lucrative positions in the private sector, and is requesting a review of the Code of Conduct for European Commissioners. A fierce integrity debate flared up when ex-Commissioners Ferrero-Waldner, Verheugen, McCreevy and Kuneva assumed corporate jobs which may profit from their former roles within one year after they left office at the European Commission (EC). The current Code of Conduct http://ec.europa.eu/commission_2010-2014/pdf/code_conduct_en.pdf for Commissioners stipulates that former European Commissioners may not assume roles related to their previous portfolios for a period of at least one year. Ex-Commissioners are obliged to inform the Commission about their new jobs and, if there is a connection to their previous portfolios, the Commission will seek the opinion of an ad hoc ethical committee. However, the committee lacks any formal criteria on which to base its judgments, and there are no systematic reporting arrangements or complaint procedures to address issues around post-office employment. Moreover, the Code of Conduct lacks a clear and effective enforcement mechanism. The code’s shortcomings and the reputational risks it poses are clearly illustrated in a recent independent study http://www.europarl.europa.eu/document/activities/cont/200907/20090728ATT59122/20090728ATT59122EN.pdf commissioned by the European Parliament Committee on Budgetary Control. Addressing these ethical and implementation gaps is critical to effectively prevent conflicts of interest and revolving doors between public and private office, promote ethical behaviour and ultimately build public trust in the Commission. 1. What steps will be taken by the EC to prevent conflicts of interest, bridge the aforementioned ethical and implementation gaps, and uphold the integrity of the European Commission? 2. Is there any time plan foreseen for reviewing the European Commissioners' Code of Conduct?