of others must also be respected – in this case the freedom of those who have been given the floor to speak in plenary.” Pursuant to Rule 147 of the Rules of Procedure, the 10 Members concerned were informed of the decision relating to them. The following have forfeited their entitlement to the subsistence allowance: Jim Allister for three days, Godfrey Bloom for two days, Sylwester Chruszcz for two days, Paul Marie Coûteaux for five days, Maciej Marian Giertych for three days, Roger Helmer for three days, Roger Knapman for three days, Hans-Peter Martin for three days and Philippe de Villiers for three days. Vladimír Železný is reprimanded. In addition, the chairmen of the bodies, delegations and committees to which the Members belong have been informed. In three cases I have refrained from applying Rule 147, because, after having discussed the matter with the Members concerned, I arrived at the conclusion that these colleagues did not take part in the action. Colleagues, this is my decision. I felt obliged to announce it to you officially and publicly here, so that Parliament would be informed about what I had to do. I hope that we shall not witness any further incidents similar to that which occurred here in the European Parliament on 12 December 2007.' IN THE CHAIR: Manuel António dos SANTOS Vice-President 15 Question Time (Council) Parliament considered a number of questions to the Council ( B6-0013/2008 ). Question 1 (Marian Harkin): Lisbon Treaty H-0077/08 . Question 2 (Gay Mitchell): Council President H-0097/08 . The following spoke: Gay Mitchell , on the organisation of Question Time. Janez Lenarčič (President-in-Office of the Council) answered the questions and supplementaries by Marian Harkin , Gay Mitchell , Richard Corbett , Reinhard Rack , Esko Seppänen and Mairead McGuinness . The following spoke: Mairead McGuinness and Esko Seppänen , to clarify their supplementary questions, which Janez Lenarčič answered. Question 3 (Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou): Youth Pact H-0082/08 . Janez Lenarčič answered the question and a supplementary by Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou . Question 4 (Claude Moraes): Cooperation on homelessness at EU Level H-0084/08 . Janez Lenarčič answered the question and a supplementary by Glenis Willmott (deputising for the author). Question 5 (Manuel Medina Ortega): Action to combat international crime and the EU Court of Justice H-0087/08 . Janez Lenarčič answered the question and supplementaries by Manuel Medina Ortega and Hubert Pirker . Question 6 was inadmissible as it had already been put down at the February part-session. Questions 7 and 8 were not taken as the agenda of the sitting already provided for their subject to be discussed. Question 9 (Jim Higgins): Transport of liquids H-0093/08 . Janez Lenarčič answered the question and supplementaries by Jim Higgins and Hubert Pirker . Question 10 (Mairead McGuinness): The EU perspective of the western Balkans H-0095/08 . Question 11 (Silvia-Adriana Ţicău): Development of relations between the EU and the Western Balkan countries H-0106/08 . Question 12 (Dimitrios Papadimoulis): Role of the EU mission to Kosovo H-0119/08 . Janez Lenarčič answered the questions and supplementaries by Mairead McGuinness , Silvia-Adriana Ţicău , Zita Pleštinská