regard to human rights ought to devote greater and more systematic attention to : - the rights of women, as there are many indications that in the absence of an adequate compensatory policy the current reforms are disproportionately placing women at a disadvantage; - the lack, in many applicant countries, of adequate legislation or policy to tackle the sexual abuse and violence to which many children are subjected; - the rights of conscientious objectors in the applicant countries; 74. Calls for the protection of human rights and respect for minorities in applicant countries not only to continue to be screened but also to be seen as a genuine priority during the negotiations currently taking place with candidate countries and, if necessary, to be made a strict precondition for the continuation of existing financial programmes for those countries; 75. Notes that Turkey has acquired the status of a candidate country, but stresses that accession negotiations cannot take place until the Copenhagen criteria concerning human rights have been fulfilled; 76. Calls on candidate countries to ratify all the Council of Europe Conventions on human rights and calls on Bulgaria, Cyprus, Estonia, Hungary, Lithuania and Romania to remove from their penal codes all laws which entail discrimination against lesbians and homosexuals; 77. States that the European Union will reject the accession of any applicant country which, either in its legislation or in its practice, fails to guarantee respect for human rights; III. Means of strengthening protection of human rights in the EU 1. A European human rights policy 78. Stresses, in view of the above remarks and the progress required to improve the human rights situation in the EU, that the EU's very credibility in this area before the international community is dependent on proper respect for human rights and the rule of law within the Union and its institutions; 79. Hopes that the concrete measures mentioned in part IV of the Vienna Declaration of 10 December 1998 aimed at closer co-ordination between Member States' human rights policies may also apply within the Union; 80. Reaffirms its commitment to drawing up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights, based on the constitutional traditions of the Member States and the fundamental rights guaranteed by the 1950 European Convention, as well as by later Conventions and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights and various other sources; 81. Considers it essential that the future Charter of Fundamental Rights be made legally binding and enforceable with a view to its effective application; believes that this Charter will fulfil its task well if it establishes a level of protection of citizens' rights greater than that provided for by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms; 82. Considers that, in view of the new legal context resulting from the Treaty of Amsterdam, the forthcoming prospect of a European Charter of Fundamental Rights and the establishment of a European area of freedom, security and justice, the EU's approach to human rights should not be limited