for the implementation of the Council Conclusions on an EU response to situations of fragility. An action plan aiming at finding the right combination of EU political, diplomatic, development, security and humanitarian instruments is being developed. The concrete actions of the plan strive to address the causes of fragility in the country and enhance democratic gains achieved so far. In parallel, the Commission considering this fragile situation in Sierra Leone, and in order to support an effective aid delivery programme, has recently agreed to allow the possibility to use flexible procedures as defined in Article 168(2) of the implementing rules and Articles 72 and 73 of the Cotonou agreement. The use of these flexible procedures can be a useful tool to address difficult situations and faster the implementation of the programmes. In addition to the contributions made by Member States, the Commission has been funding since 2003 activities of the Special Court for Sierra Leone (SCSL) through the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Right and the new European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR). Since 2003 a total of EUR 2,69 million has been committed directly to the SCSL through three ‘Victims Justice and Legacy’ Projects and in 2007 through ‘Communicating Justice and Capacity Building’ project. Furthermore, after the consultations between the Commission and the Government of Sierra Leone during preparations of the 10th EDF strategy it was agreed to earmark EUR 1 million from the NIP to cover the outreach activities of the Court in 2009. The relevant project was approved in 2008 and complements the projects under previously financed under the EIDHR. The EC also provided a one-off support of EUR 2.5million SCSL under the new Instrument for Stability for ‘Emergency support to sustain trials before the SCSL, in particular the Charles Taylor trial’ to cover running costs (mainly staff salaries) of the Court. The project was carried out in summer 2008. As said previously, the Sierra Leone 10 EDF NIP foresees an allocation of EUR 37.0 million for Good governance and Institutional support in the country. These founds will contribute to the reform of the public service, support the decentralisation process and reinforce the internal capabilities of the institutions of Sierra Leone. In this framework EUR 8 million are earmarked in order to support the upcoming elections and reinforce the electoral institutions in the country. EUR 3 million have been also earmarked for Sierra Leone on the Annual Action Plan for 2009 of the Thematic Programme ‘Non State Actors and Local Authorities in Development’ to facilitate non-state actor and local authority participation in poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies. In this regard it is also necessary to mention two programmes approved under the 9th EDF framework and which are particularly focused on the civil society and the reinforcement of the democratic bodies in Sierra Leone: — The 9th EDF project ‘Support to the Rehabilitation and Operation of National Electoral Commission’, approved in 2006 and currently under implementation, has dedicated EUR 11.7 million to support the electoral process in 2007 and the reinforcement of the electoral management bodies