position taken by the Ombudsman's office as expressed in its letter to EMAG was such that international policyholders (who have contacted with ELAS' branches outside the UK) would not be covered by the investigation (WE 14 Page 42. ). However, the Parliamentary Ombudsman reversed this position after having obtained legal advice. In a letter The position of 'international' policyholders in relation to the Parliamentary Ombudsman's investigation; Letter from the Ombudsman's office to Mr Braithwaite, General Secretary of EMAG, dated 9 May 2005. to Mr BRAITHWAITE, the Ombudsman's office states that " our investigation is indeed capable of covering the position of all international policyholders who claim to have suffered injustice as a result of maladministration in the prudential regulation of Equitable Life prior to 1 December 2001 " and that " any findings and recommendations we might make at the conclusion of the investigation will therefore also address the position of such policyholders ". According to the letter, this decision was based on a confirmation by the UK Treasury that in practice all prudential regulation was undertaken by the UK regulator and that complaints about such regulation would therefore concern rights or obligations arising within the UK. Mr LAKE (H1) was of the opinion that the decision to cover international policyholders was " a discretionary measure and not a legal prescription ". Commissioner McCREEVY welcomed the Parliamentary Ombudsman's undertaking " because, in a single market, it is not acceptable that non-UK policyholders would not receive the same treatment as UK policyholders " (H8). d.) The UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme The FSCS states on its website http://www.fscs.org.uk/ that it can only consider claims against firms that were authorised by a UK regulator at the time the advice was given. The common understanding of witnesses heard before the committee is such that the FSCS, in principle, would not cover claims for compensation from the customers of foreign branches of UK insurance undertakings (see, for instance, statements by Mr TERTÁK, H1; Mr LAKE, H1; Mr WEYER, H3; Ms O'DEA, H4, Mr STEFFEN, H6). Following requests from Irish policyholders See for instance letter with attachments by Mr O'Broin dated 8 March 2006 (WE 3). , the Irish authorities sought to obtain information from the UK authorities as to whether Irish policyholders would qualify for compensation in the event of insolvency. The advice received was to the effect that the position of Irish policyholders regarding the right to compensation under the scheme is legally complex and "would need to be assessed ... on a case by case basis ." (Ms O'DEA, H4). In WE 21 Pages 3 and 4. BaFin indicates that it examined whether German customers of Equitable Life could benefit from the FSCS in the event of insolvency. According to them, policies signed by German customers before the creation of the FSCS on 1 December 2001 (which is the case for all German policies) are protected if they were signed with a UK authorised undertaking or one of their EU subsidiaries and if they already fell under the protection of its predecessor, the Policyholder