from the opinion of CESR it shall motivate its decision. In case no opinion is submitted, the competent authority of the home Member State shall adopt its decision within 30 days after the draft registration decision, as referred to in paragraph 1, has been communicated to CESR. Where a group of credit rating agencies is concerned the competent authority of each home Member State shall take its decision on the basis of the outcome of the joint assessment referred to in Article 14(5). 2. The CESR shall adopt its decision within 15 days after expiry of the deadline for submitting the opinion referred to in paragraph 1 . Amendment 94 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Within 10 days following the adoption or refusal of the registration decision the credit rating agencies concerned shall be informed, whether or not they have been registered. Where the competent authority of the home Member State refuses to register the credit rating agency, it shall give reasons in the decision for its refusal to the credit rating agency concerned. Within 10 days following the adoption of the registration decision or refusal the credit rating agencies concerned shall be informed, whether or not they have been registered. Where the CESR refuses to register the credit rating agency, it shall give reasons in the decision for its refusal to the credit rating agency concerned and shall notify the Commission and the Member States' competent authorities accordingly . Amendment 95 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The competent authority of the home Member State shall notify the European Commission , CESR and the other competent authorities of the registration it has carried out. 3. The CESR shall notify the Commission and the Member States' competent authorities, of the registration that it has carried out. Amendment 96 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The European Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union an updated list of credit rating agencies registered in accordance with this Regulation within 30 days of the notification by the competent authority of the home Member State . The Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union an updated list of credit rating agencies registered in accordance with this Regulation within 30 days of the notification by the CESR . Amendment 97 Proposal for a regulation Article 15 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Credit rating agencies shall publish their code of conduct and their registration number under this Regulation on the homepage of their websites. Amendment 98 Proposal for a regulation Article 16 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The competent authority of the home Member State may charge a registration fee to the credit rating agency. The registration fee shall be proportionate to the cost of the procedures in that Member State .