16 January 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Francisca Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, Marie-Arlette Carlotti, Glenys Kinnock and Karin Junker on behalf of the PSE Group on the exploitation of the wealth of the Democratic Republic of Congo European Parliament resolution on the exploitation of the wealth of the Democratic Republic of Congo The European Parliament, – meeting in Brussels on 30 January 2003, – having regard to the signature on 18 December 2002 of the global and comprehensive agreement between the Government and the Opposition political parties and groups, - having regard to the report on the pillage of the wealth of the DRC submitted to the UN Security Council on 21 October 2002, - having regard to Article 21(2) of the African Charter of Human and Peoples’ Rights which lays down that ‘in case of spoliation, the dispossessed people shall have the right to the lawful recovery of its property …’, A. whereas the international community and, in particular, the African community must help to restore a situation of security, B. having regard to the economic potential of the countries in the Great Lakes Region in Africa, C. having regard to the serious threats to the ecosystem and, in particular, to the illegal logging of the equatorial forest in the DRC, D. whereas most of the national parks, in which poaching, deforestation and the illegal mining of gold and coltan are rife, lie in the eastern part of the DRC, E. concerned at the summary execution of illegal miners in the diamond mines administered by the DRC Government through MIBA, 1. Welcomes the Pretoria Agreement and pays tribute to the efforts made by the African Union and by the UN to ensure that the democratic process is implemented in the DRC; 2. Supports the Agreement, trusts that it will prove to be a complete success and encourages all the parties involved to ensure that it is implemented peacefully and at an early date; 3. Recalls its support for the territorial integrity of the DRC and for its sovereignty over its natural resources; 4. Calls on all the parties involved to ensure that the ecosystem is properly protected; 5. Calls, with a view to compliance with the principle of good governance, for those persons found guilty of pillaging the resources of the DRC to be dismissed from their posts and to be excluded from office during the transitional period which will precede the establishment of democracy; 6. Calls on the DRC authorities to give to those responsible for managing the diamond mines, which are State property, instructions regarding the treatment to be afforded to illegal miners, many of whom, in the past, have been executed by MIBA security staff; 7. Calls on the UN Security Council, in line with the recommendations of its rapporteurs, to impose sanctions (travel restrictions, freezing of assets and prohibition on the holding of bank accounts) on those persons and companies in respect of whom it has been proved that they