global financing decision has been taken for the full amount available (EUR 5,5 million) and, once the evaluation is completed, final discussions on the approved proposals will take place with contracts expected to be signed by the end of the year. The project(s) as such should therefore be implemented as of 2007. The Commission does not wish any additional commitment appropriations for 2007 but, depending on the results, this could possibly be the case for 2008. Pilot project on Erasmus-style programme for apprentices (15 02 23) 25. Following feasibility studies financed under the 2005 budget, a call-for-proposals was launched in July 2006. The deadline is 28 September and contracts are expected to be signed in December. The Commission is expecting to be able to sign about 10-12 contracts for approximately EUR 150.000 each. Beneficiaries could be chambers of commerce and chambres de métiers and the like. 26. In addition, a separate call-for-tender has been launched for a service-contract (maximum amount of EUR 400.000) in order to utilise an external body to actually carry out the evaluation and co-ordinate subsequent activities. This external firm will make a suggestion to the Commission as to which projects are up to standard and should be approved. 27. In total, the Commission expects to implement the full EUR 2 million voted in commitments. 28. The main focus of the projects will be to design models/networks for future apprentice exchanges, taking into account issues such as recognition between countries, common standards, legal matters etc. 29. It is possible that some "real" exchanges could also take place but these would be very limited in number and of an experimental nature. The results, nevertheless, should according to the Commission be used as a catalyst to improve the practical execution of the new Life Long Learning programme which will cover the possibility for apprentice mobility actions. A sectoral approach will be followed for the projects, i.e. each approved project will cover one specific work area. The projects should be running from the first part of 2007 to 2008 (maximum of 21 months). Pilot project on cross-border cooperation in the fight against natural disasters (07 04 02) 30. A call for proposals was launched in July 2006 with a deadline of 25 September. Following the evaluation phase, contracts are expected to be signed by December 2006/January 2007. A global budgetary commitment for the full amount of EUR 6,5 million will be taken before the end of the year. 31. The Commission is hoping to sign about 4-5 big contracts, which could be awarded to both public and private bodies. In practical terms, the actions will fill the gap between the current framework for cooperation in the civil protection field and the revision of the "Community Civil protection mechanism". The benefit would thus be to "anticipate" the new legal framework and allow Member States and the Commission to gain practical experience from the operational side when using multi-national teams in responding to natural disasters. The interest of the action is very high judging from an information day organised by the Commission in July