the effect of worsening the losses incurred by stockbreeders in southern Spain from the immobilisation of livestock introduced to prevent the spread of 'blue tongue' disease, I. whereas the fuel crisis is increasing farmers' costs, thus making matters worse for the sectors affected by the frost and drought, J. whereas national aids scarcely compensate for the losses suffered by Spain's farmers and stockbreeders, K. whereas the consequences of this climatic disaster are affecting numerous local economies, reaching record dimensions with the loss of thousands of jobs, many of them those of immigrants at a time when a major regularisation is taking place, L. whereas the persistent drought in the Iberian peninsula is the result of climate change, while the EU still lacks an integrated policy for combating a phenomenon which could jeopardise the water supply of whole regions and accelerate desertification, M. whereas in its report No 2 of 2004 on the impact of climate change in Europe the European Environment Agency admits that global warming is having more serious consequences in southern Europe, with potentially severe repercussions for Spain in terms of increased drought, more forest fires and greater risks to human health, 1. Expresses its solidarity with farmers and stockbreeders in Spain and in the Iberian peninsula as a whole, in view of the generally unfavourable climatic conditions they are facing; 2. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to implement a new system of support for farmers, aimed at tackling extreme climate change in agriculture and introducing a Community insurance model or compensation mechanism which would complement the existing national insurance systems by making provision for income loss and reduced production capacity; 3. Calls, in this connection, for a swifter launch of the pilot project agreed in the 2005 budget procedure for establishing a Community insurance regime for compensation in case of natural disasters; 4. Calls on the Commission to release resources from the Solidarity Fund with a view to alleviating the damage caused to the productive capacity of whole regions, given that the frost and drought have affected living conditions and economic stability in numerous areas; 5. Favours extending the eligibility criteria for Solidarity Fund aid in case of climatic disasters under the financial perspective for 2007-2013; 6. Calls on the Commission to improve the eligibility conditions for aid under the common agricultural policy, by means of the following measures: - greater flexibility in the set-aside regime; - authorisation of grazing on set-aside land; - extension of the obligation to achieve flowering for those receiving Community aid for herbaceous crops; - extension of the general obligation regarding grain legume use for those receiving aid and the possibility of direct use of the arable land concerned for grazing; - greater mobilisation of intervention cereals in order to meet livestock's feeding needs; - bringing CAP aids forward to September. 7. Asks, in the framework of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables, for application to the operational programmes for 2006 of Article 4(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1433/2003 in order to ensure a minimum value for