in continuous decline, leaving Europe's economy on the brink of stagnation (from 3.5% of GDP in 2000 to 1.5% in 2001, 0.9% in 2002 and 0.4% in 2003), B. whereas an upturn in the European economy is to be expected in 2004, C. whereas employment prospects have deteriorated in 2003, increasing the unemployment rate to 8,9% in the euro area and to 8,1% in the EU as a whole, about 0,5 pps higher than in 2002, D. whereas the share of persons at risk of poverty at EU level remains at a very high level of 15%, and would amount to 23% without social transfers and to as much as 27% in the accession countries; whereas income inequalities will drastically increase with enlargement, E. whereas due to the economic stagnation, social expenditures have increased on average by 1,5% of GDP in the EU since 2000, resulting in greater pressure on public finances; whereas tax on labour accounts for more than 50% of total tax revenues creating an impediment to employment growth, F. whereas both public and private investment across the European Union has fallen in recent years, with the declining tendency persisting in 2003, and better background conditions for increased competitiveness are necessary in order to stimulate private investment; G. whereas the dramatic decline of venture capital investments relative to GDP from 0,07% to 0,029% in 2002 is causing major difficulties for research-intensive SMEs, and whereas there is a growing concentration of transnational R&D expenditures of EU firms in the US, combined with an increased tendency of the 'brain drain' phenomenon, H. whereas Europe is far behind its main competitors in investments in the future, such as research and development and human resources, and is under-performing in innovation ; whereas R&D spending for acceding countries averages well below 1% of GDP and represents an obstacle to real convergence and integration into a knowledge-based economy, I. whereas there are no signs of any substantial increase in overall investment in human resources and whereas human capital accounts for 22% of observed productivity growth; whereas raising the average level of education of the population by one year represents a 5% increase in growth in the short term and a further 2.5% in the long run, J. whereas Europe shows a gap with the US of 13% of population to have completed higher education, and whereas the EU invests only 1,1% of GDP in tertiary education as compared to 3% in the US, with more than half coming from the private sector, K. whereas levels of school failure and of social exclusion are excessively high, with almost 20% of young people aged 18 - 24 in the EU prematurely dropping out of school in 2002, and whereas the quality and attractiveness of vocational training and life-long learning is not up to the new requirements of the knowledge-based economy and the urgent need to increase labour market participation in view of our ageing society, L. whereas investment needs in acceding countries, especially in the area of transport networks and environment, remain high considering the low stock of