an important channel for exchanging good practice. The very remote regions, the Nordic regions with low population densities, mountain regions and other areas with natural disadvantages, less favoured urban districts, and rural areas represent "territorial diversity, which is an asset to the Union" . And the reform must take all of this into account. Konstantinos HATZIDAKIS (EPP-ED, EL) asked whether she would have made any changes to Mr Barnier's policy and his draft regulations. Mrs Hübner said she welcomed the changes which her predecessor had made with the aim of adjusting regional policy to the needs of enlargement. She added that "cohesion policy consists of more than just redistributing money" . As for the regulations, it was a matter of finding an answer to the "delicate question" of how to achieve the flexibility to put resources to the best use. The statistical effect In reply to Constanze KREHL (PES, DE), who asked about aid to regions suffering from the "statistical effect" , Mrs Hübner said that in the old Member States the statistical effect would have an impact on about 20 regions. (The statistical effect is due to the modification of macroeconomic reference data following enlargement. Some regions which used to be eligible for aid in the 15-member EU will no longer be eligible now that there are 25 Member States). Mrs Hübner considers that what must first be done, with the aid of the data supplied by Eurostat, is to try to establish exactly how many regions will really be affected throughout the Union. As regards the arrangements for the State aid which these regions may possibly be allowed to receive, Mrs Hübner regretted that she could not provide any further details at this stage because the negotiations were still in progress within the Directorate-General for Competition; she confined herself to saying that it was necessary to "provide aid for the regions which need it and take care not to squander resources" . Replying to Bernadette BOURZAI (PES, FR), who voiced concern about the fate of regions with serious natural disadvantages (e.g. mountain and island regions), Mrs Hübner said that, although the Union had been trying to help these regions for a long time "it is never enough" . She wished to promote increased cross-border cooperation as well as other policies, which she hoped to make more effective. "The heart of the matter" According to Jean-Marie BEAUPUY (ALDE/ADLE, FR), budgetary questions and sufficient funding were the key points, since "money is the heart of the matter" . Looking at the overall budget, Mrs Hübner said the money was to be found in different budget items and that there was a need to "create synergy" between the available funding and ensure the efficiency of control systems. Referring to the desire of some Member States to cut the Community budget to 1% of GDP, Kyriacos TRIANTAPHYLLIDES (GUE/NGL, CY) wished to know whether, in Mrs Hübner's view, the resources planned for cohesion policy in the new Financial Perspective were sufficient. The Commissioner-designate referred to the estimates of the current Commission, according to which a