Answer given by Mr De Gucht on behalf of the Commission (4 May 2011) The Commission is aware of the situation in Argentina and shares your concern over the negative impact on EU exporters of the measures taken by Argentina. In March 2011, the Argentine authorities asked the industry to offset the import values of individual firms with the export values on a ‘one to one’ basis. The Argentine authorities asked firms to present their plans to achieve this objective as soon as possible with a deadline of implementation after 12 months. The industry has been informed that they can compensate the imports of 2011 with exports until 31 March 2012. It is clear that the request by the Argentine Government towards car manufacturers forms part of a broader import restricting policy put in place by the Argentine administration. This policy also results in homologation delays for cars, the inclusion of certain premium cars and car parts in the Argentine system of non-automatic import licenses and problems of EU companies to get their cars and motorcycles through customs. The Commission has taken up this issue with the Argentine authorities on several occasions, including at high level. Concerns about Argentina's policy have also been expressed in the relevant Committees of the WTO. Argentina's actions do not appear to be compatible with the WTO Agreement and, in particular, with Article XI of the GATT, which prohibits restrictions on imports made effective by any measure other than duties, taxes or other charges. All options for action are still being examined within the Commission but in this situation, there are mainly two types of action that the Commission can take. These are diplomatic pressure through the existing channels and at different levels, or formal dispute settlement in the WTO. As regards the possibility of formal dispute settlement in the WTO, the availability of clear pieces of evidence is very important and the Commission remains in close contact with affected firms and Member States to that effect.