WRITTEN QUESTION E-2112/04 by Herbert Bösch (PSE) to the Commission (20 September 2004) Subject: Rural development The Commission is seeking to attain a number of goals in the area of rural development, including: — ensuring fair and stable incomes for farmers; — developing complementary and alternative activities that generate employment, with a view to slowing the depopulation of the countryside and strengthening the economic and social fabric of rural areas; — ensuring that environmental issues are taken into account. 1. The EU budget includes around EUR 2000 million (2003: around EUR 1900 million) for agri‑environmental measures. Can the Commission provide a summary for the 15 Member State EU and for Austria of what measures were taken in 2003 and what the volume of funding was? How much money was used for extensification measures (broken down by type of extensification)? What percentage of the total payments for agri‑environmental measures was received by the 10 % (or 25 % or 50 %) of the recipients who, in terms of volume of funding, received the most support (separate lists for the 15 Member State EU and for Austria)? 2. The European Commission intends to strengthen the economic and social structure of rural areas in order to prevent the depopulation of the countryside. What level of funding has the Commission invested to make rural regions more accessible by public transport? What measures has the Commission taken to consolidate or to strengthen the social and economic structure of rural regions? What level of funding has been used to this end? How many complementary and alternative activities that generate employment have been created? (For all questions: separate replies for the 15 Member State EU and for Austria.) 3. Can the Commission provide a summary of trends in farmers’ incomes over the last 10 years — divided into ten groups in descending order with the highest earners in the first group and the lowest in the tenth? 4. What goals has the Commission established in terms of rural development in the period 2007 to 2013 with a view to creating complementary and alternative activities that generate employment and strengthening the economic and social structure of rural regions?