Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (22 December 2008) Article 13 of the EC Treaty states that the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting Parliament, may take appropriate action to combat discrimination based on sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. The grounds of discrimination listed in Article 13 do not cover discrimination against homeless people as such. The Commission points out that the register of homeless people envisaged by the Italian authorities does not appear to breach the principle of free movement of persons enshrined in the EC Treaty since the register would create no discrimination with regard to EU citizens from other Member States. Since the measures envisaged will involve the processing of personal data and are likely to present specific risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, it is necessary that before any processing activity starts it will be in compliance with Italian data protection law which implements Directive 95/46/EC OJ L 281, 23.11.1995. on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. The Commission also reminds that finding solutions to fighting poverty and social exclusion of vulnerable groups such as homeless people and people with mental health problems remains in the first place the responsibility of the national authority in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. The Treaty does not provide a legal basis for country-specific recommendations in the social protection and social inclusion area. The Open method of Coordination for Social Protection and Social Inclusion provides a framework of political coordination without legal constraints where inclusion of vulnerable groups such as homeless people and people with mental health problems is among the objectives. The Commission actively supports this process. Moreover, under the European Pact for Mental Health and Well-being launched by a high-level conference of 13 June 2008, the Commission is building up a process to promote the exchange and cooperation between Member States on key mental health issues.