Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (10 April 2008) The Commission is aware of the problems in Bosnia and Herzegovina related to the Roma minority. The Law on the Protection of Ethnic Minorities provides for the same rights of all the seventeen minorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina. However, as stated in the Commission's Bosnia and Herzegovina 2007 Progress Report SEC(2007)1430 final. , the Law continues to be poorly applied, in particular as regards the Roma. The Bosnian and Herzegovinian authorities adopted in 2005 a Strategy for addressing Roma problems, which translated into 15 action plans covering areas such as education, employment, housing, health and social protection. Implementing all the sectoral action plans is a European Partnership priority. Some progress has been made in eliminating divisive and discriminatory symbolism from schools in Bosnia and Herzegovina through the implementation of the criteria on school names and symbols, but continued efforts are necessary. Steps have been taken to provide students with common textbooks in the areas of history and geography. However, the practice of ‘two schools under one roof’- which separates pupils in schools along ethnic lines- has continued in some areas of the country. This remains a serious concern . The Commission considers the role of civil society essential for democratic development of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As stated in the Commission's Communication on the western Balkans of 5 March 2008 COM(2008)127 final. (the 5 March Communication), the EU will substantially increase its support to civil society in the western Balkans. The Commission also pays due attention to guaranteeing the freedom of expression and the independence of media. The need for a unified Office of State Ombudsman, whose selection is based on professional qualifications rather than on their political backing, is frequently stressed in our bilateral dialogue with the authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Police reform, including tangible progress towards the establishment of professional independent police forces, is also an important condition for the country's progress towards the EU. As regards truth and reconciliation, a Commission investigating the atrocities in Srebrenica was established in 2004 and a ‘Sarajevo Truth Commission’ was established in 2006. In particular, the Srebrenica Commission has been very important in establishing the facts about the events in Srebrenica. Helping reconciliation is a core Commission objective, as stressed in the 5 March Communication. Apart from the four conditions set by the Council and the Commission for concluding a Stabilisation Association Agreement (SAA) with Bosnia and Herzegovina, that is full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), progress on police reform and on public broadcasting and public administration reform, the Commission also attaches great importance to the country's overall reform progress, including the areas highlighted by the non-governmental organisations. This is reflected in the 2007 Progress Report and the European Partnership, as well as during the regular monitoring meetings at senior level. Bosnia and Herzegovina's European integration depends on these fundamental issues being addressed with the necessary determination.