WRITTEN QUESTION E-5994/07 by Bart Staes (Verts/ALE) to the Council (4 December 2007) Subject: Whale-catching by Japan On 24 June 1982 the Council decided to adopt the Convention for the conservation of migratory species of wild animals (Decision 82/461/EEC —‘CMS Convention’) unchanged. It had itself taken part in the negotiations creating the Convention. In mid‑November a Japanese fleet of whale-catchers set sail to hunt for 50 humpback whales, 935 minke whales and 50 fin whales. These are all part of the family of Balaenopteridae. Two of them are covered by Annex I of the CMS Convention. These are migratory species under threat, in other words species threatened with extinction. In its 2003 report ‘Dolphins, Whales and Porpoises’ the World Conservation Union (IUCN) writes that the species are ‘vulnerable’ (humpback whales) or ‘almost threatened’ (fin whales). The report also cautions against the premature conclusion that the recovery of these species means that commercial whaling for them can be resumed. The species is not increasing quickly, the consequences of by-catch still exist, the scale of overstocks is not precisely known, there are adverse effects from noise and pollution, and ‘… a profit-driven whaling industry cannot be adequately managed to prevent stock depletion’, says the report (page 32). Although Japan argues that it is catching the animals solely for scientific research, the meat is being sold on the market. Surpluses are piling up in freezer containers. Moreover, valid alternatives are available for scientific research. What action will the Council, as co-negotiator of the CMS Convention, be taking to persuade Japan that it must cease the hunting of humpbacks and fin whales, and to ensure that not only Japan but also other countries desist from hunting these animals in future, in view of their still very critical survival status? At what stage will the Council be taking this action, and at what levels will it be taking this action? Can the Council also say why it did not act on a recommendation by the Commission (SEC(2007)115 final — see also Parliamentary Question E‑3361/07) with the aim of helping to extend a moratorium at the IWS meeting in Anchorage in May 2007? How would the Council comment on this point for Parliament, which as a result of the above refusal has not been kept informed? For as a result of the Council’s refusal to act on the Commission proposal, Parliament was not informed of this.