concepts, principles and effectiveness of these Agreements and their instruments and objectives, and taking into account the needs of developing and least-developed participants’. A new Group on Rules, to be chaired by the New Zealand Ambassador to the WTO, has been created. The deadline for the conclusion of the negotiations is 1 January 2005. The EP has already suggested improvements to the Dispute Settlement Understanding in its resolution of 25 October 2001 See A5-0331/2001 . The present report concentrates specifically on the European Union’s anti-dumping policy, with a view also to the WTO negotiations. 2. Transparency The basic Regulations are detailed in specifying the procedural rules. They concern complaints from Community industry, the questionnaires prepared by the Commission and sent to producers of the exporting countries, the hearing if requested, the investigations and possible imposition of provisional measures. All these stages are accomplished by the Commission, and its findings are made available in a provisional working document, and after further consultation with representatives of Member States a second, definitive, working document will be drafted by the Commission. However, it is the Council which decides on the imposition of definitive duties. The European Parliament plays no role. The question of transparency, which both sides in a dispute are entitled to demand has prompted a number of concerns as regards access to information and the right to be heard . 3. The relevance of anti-dumping and anti-subsidies legislation Many analysts have certain reservations regarding the usefulness of an anti-dumping policy, or at least the way in which it is implemented. There are those who maintain that the anti-dumping procedure benefits producers' interests in a given sector, without taking sufficient account of the benefits which might accrue to other sectors and, ultimately, consumers, if cheaper imported products were available. Furthermore, the forces of globalisation may prompt a re-think of the way normal value is calculated (a) and the conditions for lodging complaints (b). (a) In fact, in calculating the normal value, that is the price charged by the exporting country in its own market in the course of ordinary trade, the price charged should in no way be affected by special relations between the parties concerned. This unrelated EC customer condition may be side-stepped by the forces of globalisation because a multinational company may split its production between several countries and thus technically create unrelated EC customers via an affiliated company in the EC. (b) For an anti-dumping complaint to be admissible it must be made by or on behalf of a national production sector and must be supported by national producers whose combined output represents 50% of total production of the like product. Under no circumstances can it be admissible if these producers represent less than 25% of total output. As economic globalisation proceeds, it may be that a great many of these national producers refuse to support the complaint because they are benefiting from the system. Nevertheless, anti-dumping and anti-subsidy law remains an essential tool at the current stage in trade liberalisation.