is twofold: enhanced competitiveness and wide-ranging reforms fostering growth in deficit countries and the opening of markets and sound monetary policy in surplus countries; H. whereas the first decade of functioning of the EMU has shown that responsible budgetary policy is one of the preconditions for minimising the impact of global financial and economic shocks; I. whereas there is a multitude of international organisations designed to govern the world economy such as the IMF, World Bank, WTO, UNCTAD and the IFC, alongside the inter-governmental fora of the G7 and G20, of which the IMF and G20 are the most effective bodies, although both still need to be improved; J. whereas global markets require global rules; K. whereas the prevailing monetary arrangements led to substantial accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, particularly the US dollar, in some surplus countries, which in turn increased the supply of capital in deficit countries and exerted downward pressure on interest rates, helping to spur the bubble in asset prices that played a central role in the last financial crisis; L. whereas the global economic crisis, which started in the financial sector, has now led to high levels of indebtedness in some of the leading world economic players including the US, Japan and the EU; M. whereas the G20 has agreed in its Pittsburgh final declaration on a Framework for Strong, Sustainable and Balanced Growth that a new multilateral approach as a response to the crisis is urgently required; N. whereas there has been global recognition of the role that some sectors of the financial industry played in contributing to the global financial crisis, demonstrating weaknesses in financial regulation, deepening of the sovereign debt crisis and a common understanding that the responsibility and transparency of the financial sector needs to be enhanced, including bearing a fair share of the costs caused by the crisis; O. whereas the much mentioned current-account imbalances are a result of underlying structural imbalances in the domestic economies; P. whereas the lack of coordinated and effective regulation and supervision of the global financial system led to weaknesses in the financial sector which subsequently exacerbated the vulnerabilities in the global economy; Q. whereas the increased role and prominence of the G20 as a forum for informal political discussions at the highest global level is welcome; whereas the G20 as an institution lacks a legal basis and a permanent secretariat and has a weak governing structure especially in comparison with other international institutions such as the IMF and WTO; R. whereas the current international monetary system has enabled several countries to proceed with competitive devaluation strategies which, together with the growing speculative transactions undertaken by powerful market stakeholders on exchange markets, have severely contributed to excess rate volatility and created significant risks for the exchange markets as well as international trade; S. whereas the EU is not perceived as a strong actor in reshaping the international monetary and financial system because it does not speak with one voice, and because of the fragmentation of its external representation in international economic affairs; T. whereas it is essential to