Nations conventions are often referred to as reasons why changes are not possible. However, these conventions are drafted and ratified by the member States, and these Member States are also in the position to propose amendments and/or to repeal the conventions. At the following conference, two important issues should be debated: an initiative for an evaluation of the effectiveness of the three UN conventions and the methods chosen to fight the problems of drug abuse the desirability of amending the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961, in order to rationalise the classification of the substances that are listed. EVALUATION There is probably a world-wide consensus on the urgent need to reduce the amount of harm caused by drugs. However, there is much debate whether the methods chosen, being mainly measures to reduce the illicit supply and the demand for drugs, are effective. It could be proposed to organise a conference of the United Nations in 2004 in order to evaluate the effect of the UN conventions on drugs and, when appropriate, to draw lessons for the future. Such an evaluation should provide an accurate understanding of the effectiveness of the UN Conventions as regards in particular: - the reduction of both the spreading and the demand of illicit drugs - their social and health-related consequences especially on harm-reduction strategy, - the drug-related criminality, both petty crime and the organized criminal networks, with their consequences on the entire society including decision-making process, economy and finance. MODIFYING THE UN CONVENTIONS The parallel existence of the Single Convention and the 1971 Convention have led to certain illogical effects such as the fact that a plant (cannabis) containing at most 3% of a principle element is dealt with more severely than the pure substance at 100% (tétrahydrocannabinol or THC). To put this right, a reclassification of certain substances is required. The reclassification of certain substances from the Single Convention and its possible reclassification in the Vienna Convention do only change the provisions on use and not the provisions and prohibition on cultivation (art. 26 and 28 of the Single Convention). The prohibition of the cultivation of plants cannot be abolished merely by a reclassification. The removal of this control could only be done by amending the treaty. This restriction, peculiar to cultivated plants internationally controlled, somewhat diminishes the interest of the reclassification technique for natural cultivated drugs. Article 47 of the Single Convention provides for the possibility of the contracting Parties requesting that the Convention be modified through the amendment procedure.. Most interesting for improving the convention in the short term is the article for reclassification (article 3). 1. The technique of reclassifications in article 3. The technique of reclassification in article 3 of the Single Convention is interesting since it allows one to change both the list of classified substances and the regime accompanying them. Furthermore, it can be used at any time, at the initiative of any contracting Party, and it has the advantage of attacking one of the most debatable aspects of the international control: the classification of narcotic drugs in the