wide-ranging reforms of the regulatory and supervisory model of the European Union's financial sector are needed. In particular, the Commission announced in its Communication of 29 October 2008 entitled 'From financial crisis to recovery: A European framework for action', that it had set up a group of experts, chaired by Mr Jacques de Larosière. That group was to consider the modalities of further reforms including the organisation of European financial institutions to ensure prudential soundness, the orderly functioning of markets and stronger European co-operation on financial stability oversight, which may include an integrated financial supervisor for all the financial sectors. The group was also to report on early warning mechanisms and crisis management, including the management of cross-border and cross-sectoral risks, and cooperation between the E uropean U nion and other major jurisdictions to help safeguard financial stability at the global level. On the basis of the work undertaken by the group, the Commission should, as soon as possible, and in any event by 1 July 2010, report to the European Parliament, the Council and other institutions concerned, any findings in this respect and should put forward any legislative proposal needed to tackle the shortcomings identified as regards supervisory cooperation arrangements. Justification It should be ensured that the conclusions of the de Larosière group affecting supervisory aspects of this regulation will be implemented through a review of this regulation and that this will be done in coherence with other financial sector regulation. Amendment 2 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 26 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (26) The supervision of a credit rating agency should be carried out by the competent authority of the home Member State, and, in case of a group of credit rating agencies, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the other Member States concerned and under coordination of CESR . (26) The supervision of credit rating agencies should be carried out by the CESR in cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States. Amendment 2 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 27 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (27) In order to maintain a high level of investor and consumer confidence and enable an on-going control of credit ratings used by financial institutions in the Community, credit rating agencies whose headquarters are located outside the Community should be required to set up a subsidiary in the Community in order to allow for an efficient supervision of their activities in the Community. (27) In order to maintain a high level of investor and consumer confidence and enable an on-going supervision of credit ratings used by financial institutions in the Community, credit rating agencies whose headquarters are located outside the Community should be required to set up a subsidiary in the Community in order to allow for an efficient supervision of their activities in the Community and the effective use of the endorsement and equivalence regime. The emergence of new actors on the credit rating agency market should also be encouraged. Amendment 2 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 28 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (28)