Answer given by Mrs Kroes on behalf of the Commission (1 December 2006) The Honourable Member rightly points out the importance of the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the Internal Market, which has been recognised in Council Directive 2001/77/EC Directive 2001/77/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2001 on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market, OJ L 283, 27.10.2001. and more recently in the Commission's Green Paper on energy policy COM(2006)105 final. . Under Council Directive 2001/77/EC, Member States are obliged to put in place support mechanisms for electricity production from renewable energy sources, in order to meet national targets for the share of renewable energy in the overall energy consumption. The Commission considers that Luxembourg's policy of promoting the consumption of electricity produced from renewable energy sources through a ‘feed-in tariff’ is fully in line with Council Directive 2001/77/EC.The Commission's 2005 Report COM(2005)627 final. on experiences of the different national support schemes has shown that feed-in tariffs are both successful in promoting the production of renewable energy sources and cost-effective in reaching their goal. However, the question of the correct transposition of Council Directive 2001/77/EC must be distinguished from the need for any support schemes to comply with the rules on state aid. The Commission has the duty to analyse whether any state aid paid by Member States is compatible with the Common Market (see Article 87, Paragraph 1 of the EC Treaty). In its ‘PreussenElektra judgment’ Case C‑379/98. , the European Court of Justice decided that the German feed-in tariff did not constitute state aid in the sense of Article 87, Paragraph 1. However, this does not mean that all feed-in tariffs will not constitute state aid. In the case of Luxembourg, the Commission has decided, in its state aid Decision C-43/2002, to open the Formal Investigation Procedure according to Article 88, Paragraph 2 of the EC Treaty. In this Opening Decision, the Commission concluded that the measure appeared to constitute state aid and expressed doubts regarding its compatibility with the Common Market. The Commission's concerns focused on firstly whether producers of renewable electricity in Luxembourg are over-compensated for the costs of producing electricity from renewable energy sources, and secondly the compatibility with the Court's jurisprudence on parafiscal levies of the charge when finances the system. A third aspect of the case concerns a fiscal exemption granted to large industrial consumers. The Commission is currently working with the Luxembourg authorities on the case, and therefore refrains from giving any further detailed information on this ongoing state aid procedure. The investigation will be closed by a Final decision of the Commission in due course which will be published in the Official Journal. With regard to the second question, the Commission would like to stress that it does not intend to put an end to prices subsidies for electricity produced from renewable energy sources in Luxembourg. According to Council Directive 2001/77/EC, Luxembourg is obliged to introduce such a national support scheme. At present the Commission is only