of a Member State of the European Union for the purposes of conducting a research project at a research organisation; Amendment 8 Article 4, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 a (new) Approval granted to a research organisation shall be valid for a renewable period of five years. Member States may grant approval for a longer period. Research organisations for which approval is refused shall receive a full justification for that refusal. Amendment 9 Article 4, paragraph 3 3. Member States shall approve for an unlimited period public and private organisations whose main tasks consist in conducting research and Member States" higher education establishments within the meaning of their legislation or administrative practice. 3. Member States may, in accordance with national law, require the research organisation to supply a written undertaking to the effect that, should the researcher remain unlawfully on the territory of the Member State concerned, the organisation will take responsibility for reimbursing residence costs, health costs and the cost of returns paid from public funds. The research organisation's financial liability shall cease no later than six months after the expiry of the hosting agreement. Amendment 10 Article 4, paragraph 4 4. Member States shall approve public organisations for an unlimited period if they conduct research activities in addition to their main tasks. deleted Amendment 11 Article 4, paragraph 5 5. Member States shall approve private firms for a period of five years, renewable, if they conduct research activities in addition to their corporate purpose. deleted Amendment 12 Article 4, paragraph 6 6. When applying for approval, the research organisation shall give the host Member State an undertaking that they will assume responsibility for residence costs, health costs, and the cost of return in respect of the researchers it hosts and to issue them with the statement referred to in Article 5(3). The research organisation shall remain responsible for these costs for one year after the date of expiry of the hosting agreement referred to in Article 5 or the date on which the organisation informs the Member State of an event rendering it impossible to implement the hosting agreement in accordance with Article 5(4), for as long as the researcher has not left the territory of the European Union. deleted Amendment 13 Article 4, paragraph 7 7. Within two months of the date of expiry of the hosting agreements concerned, the approved research organisations shall provide the authority designated for the purpose by the Member States with confirmation that the work has been carried out for each of the research projects in respect of which they have signed a hosting agreement pursuant to Article 5. 7. Member States may provide that within two months of the date of expiry of the hosting agreements concerned, the approved research organisations are to provide the competent authorities designated for the purpose by the Member States with confirmation that the work has been carried out for each of the research projects in respect of which they have signed a hosting agreement pursuant to Article 5. Amendment 14 Article 4, paragraph 9 9. A Member State