observed. This shall include an analysis of operational vs. administrative costs and the split between headquarters and delegations, including aspects of staff, temporary staff, and other types of support expenditure; - clarifies whether it now considers the working relationship between headquarters and delegations as satisfactory or which additional measures will still need to be put in place; - clarifies whether the need for simplification with regard to delegation procedures has now been completed. If not, what new measures have been proposed, i.e. within the framework of the new regulation? Amendment 3802 : budget line 19 08 01 02 : European Neighbourhood and Partnership (ENP) financial assistance to Palestine and to the peace process According to Special Report 10/2004 of the Court of Auditors on the devolution of external aid, better indicators of speed and quality of aid delivery are needed and delays in project implementation should be reduced. Given the completely new landscape of implementation of external aid following devolution over the course of the current financial perspective, there is a need to take stock of results before fully authorising the funds requested for external programmes from 2007 and onwards. This is also the case since the Court of Auditors has previously pointed out the need to monitor the costs of devolution to delegations against the results. Appropriations should be placed in reserve until the Commission addresses these weaknesses. Before Parliament's second reading, the Commission should: - explain the inter-relationship between devolution of aid programmes to the EC delegations and the trends in expenditure observed. This shall include an analysis of operational vs. administrative costs and the split between headquarters and delegations, including aspects of staff, temporary staff, and other types of support expenditure; - clarify whether it now considers the working relationship between headquarters and delegations as satisfactory or which additional measures will still need to be put in place; - clarify whether the need for simplification with regard to delegation procedures has now been completed. If not, what new measures have been proposed, i.e. within the framework of the new regulation? Amendment 3803 : budget line 19 08 01 03 : European Neighbourhood and Partnership (ENP) financial cooperation with eastern Europe Justification for placing 30% of appropriations in reserve and conditions for release: In its Special Report 2/2006 on TACIS, the Court of Auditors examines projects in Russia, which is the highest recipient of funds, and notes, inter alia, low effectiveness and objectives not achieved for a majority of projects examined, lack of dialogue with beneficiaries, lack of local ownership of programmes, no co-financing used, problems with terms of references and evaluations. Only 9 of 29 projects audited achieved their objectives, 8 achieved them partially and 12 failed to achieve them. The results of only 5 of the audited projects were found to be sustainable. The Court concluded that the effectiveness of the use of TACIS funds in the Russian Federation has been very low and it was therefore unable to give a positive assessment of performance. According to Special Report 10/2004 of the Court of Auditors on the devolution