rail engines with a volume of more than 5 litres per cylinder exhibit different operational behaviour and different standards might therefore be appropriate. Amendment 25 ARTICLE 2c (new) Article 2c The Commission shall explore the possibility of an agreement between the EU and the Central Commission for Navigation on the Rhine in respect of mutual recognition of type approvals for inland waterway transport. Justification Mutual recognition of type approvals for inland waterway transport would simplify procedures considerably and would be a rational step given the similarity of standards. Amendment 26 ANNEX I, POINT 1, BEFORE (a) (new) Annex I, Section 1, last subparagraph, point A (Directive 97/68/EC) (before a) The first paragraph of Section 1, last subparagraph, point A, shall read as follows: 'Intended and suited, to move, or to be moved on the ground, with or without road, and with a compression ignition engine having a net power in accordance with section 2.4 that is higher than 18 kW and that is operated under intermittent speed rather than a single constant speed.' Justification Follows from extending the scope to rail vehicles. Amendment 27 ANNEX I, POINT 1, BEFORE (a) (new) Annex I, Section 1, last subparagraph, point A, new indent (Directive 97/68/EC) (before a) The following indent is inserted in Section 1, last subparagraph, point A: '- rail vehicles' Justification Follows from extending the scope to rail vehicles. Amendment 28 ANNEX I, POINT 1(b) Annex I, Section 1, last subparagraph, point C (Directive 97/68/EC) b) In point C of section 1, last subparagraph the words 'railway locomotives' are replaced by: 'railway locomotives that are not designed to carry any passengers or freight by themselves' . b) Point C of section 1, last subparagraph, is deleted . Justification Follows from extending the scope to rail vehicles. Amendment 29 ANNEX I, POINT 1 (c) (ia) (new) Annex I, Section 2, 2.8c (new) (Directive 97/68/EC) (ia) The following Section 2.8c is inserted: 'Defeat device' means a device which measures, senses or responds to operating variables for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying or deactivating the operation of any component or function of the emission control system such that the effectiveness of the emission control system is reduced under conditions encountered during normal vehicle use.' Justification In line with Directive 2001/27/EC concerning heavy goods vehicles, this principle should also apply to non-road mobile machinery in order not to take limit values and test provisions to the point of the absurd. Amendment 30 ANNEX I, POINT 1 (c) (ib) (new) Annex I, Section 2, 2.8d (new) (Directive 97/68/EC) (ib) The following section 2.8d is inserted: 'irrational emission control strategy' means any strategy or measure that, when the vehicle is operated under normal conditions of use, reduces the effectiveness of the emission control system to a level below that expected on the applicable emission test procedures'. Justification To ensure that the limit values are not only selectively aligned but are also applicable at randomly selected test points during normal operation. Amendment 31 ANNEX I, POINT 1 (e), INDENT 1 Annex I, Section 4.1.2.4. (new) (Directive 97/68/EC) e)