way in which fundamental policy choices are made. Such transparency is essential to enable the European Parliament to perform its role as co-legislator. Democracy, after all, is conditional on the guarantee of transparency. In this way the European Parliament explicitly opts for parliamentary democracy and not for a 'democracy of experts'. 5. GLOBAL GOVERNANCE There are great opportunities for the Commission in the worldwide promotion of its administrative values. Governance is increasingly supranational. More and more people perceive the economic and social impact of globalisation on a daily basis and no longer accept that the regulation of international relations should be left to diplomats and politicians. As an economic power bloc with a growing political dimension, the European Union can play a pioneering role in democratising international organisations. The Commission is the logical body to implement this policy. Firstly, the Commission can make an important contribution to the debate on reforming international organisations such as the WTO and the UN. Making these organisations more democratic, efficient and transparent, for example by adding a parliamentary dimension to them, is one of the principal tasks for the years ahead. In addition, the EU's international representation needs to be thoroughly reviewed, both in the form of the representations abroad and within international organisations. Ultimately the aim should be for the EU to have a single seat in the IMF, the World Bank and one day, it is to be hoped, on the United Nations Security Council. In the White Paper, the Commission indicated that coherence of policy was one of the principles on which good European governance must be based. Coherence is particularly essential when it comes to global governance. All decisions should take account of their impact on third countries, particularly in the field of poverty, social conditions and the environment and the European Union's principles pursuant to Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union. 4 November 2003 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGAL AFFAIRS AND THE INTERNAL MARKET for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Commission Communication 'Towards a reinforced culture of consultation and dialogue - General principles and minimum standards for consultation of interested parties by the Commission' ( COM(2002) 704 – C5-0200/2003 - 2003/2085(INI)) on the Commission report on European governance ( COM(2002) 705 – C5-0200/2003 - 2003/2085(INI)) and on the Commission Communication on the collection and use of expertise by the Commission: Principles and guidelines - 'Improving the knowledge base for better policies' ( COM(2002) 713 – C5-0200/2003 - 2003/2085(INI)) Draftsman: Manuel Medina OrtegaPA_NonLeg PROCEDURE The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market appointed Manuel Medina Ortega draftsman at its meeting of 7 July 2003. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 6 October and 4 November 2003. At the last meeting it adopted the following suggestions by 22 votes to 0, with 1 abstention. The following were present for the vote: Giuseppe Gargani (chairman), Willi Rothley (vice-chairman), Ioannis Koukiadis (vice-chairman), Manuel Medina Ortega (draftsman), Maria Luisa Bergaz Conesa (for Alain Krivine pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Maria Berger, Bert Doorn, Janelly Fourtou, Marie-Françoise Garaud, Malcolm