Answer given by Ms Wallström on behalf of the Commission (21 January 2009) 1. Though the Court of Auditors has stressed in some of its reports that purchase rather then rent should be considered on cost effectiveness grounds, each institution is autonomous in managing its administrative expenditure. 2. The Commission Representations play a key role in the implementation of all EU communications activities in Member States. They are the citizen's first point of contact on the ground, and address citizens' need to receive objective, prompt and accessible information about the activities of the EU and to communicate with the institutions about particular concerns in their language. The Representations also maintain contacts with national political institutions and circles as well as with media and civil society. Together, the Commission Representations and the Parliament Information Offices encourage dialogue and democratic debate by creating public spaces in the Member States, in particular in their capitals, where the EU institutions may interact with society, with an emphasis on politics, culture, education and civil society. These spaces serve as meeting points for Europeans, providing information and documentation, hosting exhibitions, films, debates, forums and lectures as well as training and seminars on European issues. 3. Following an agreement between Parliament and the Commission, in recent years the Commission Representations and the Parliament Information Offices usually share premises in the Member States to reduce global costs and maximise visibility. In such cases joint acquisitions have been pre-financed by Parliament, while the Commission refunds Parliament for its share in the form of annuities spread over several years, according to the lines set out in the communication on the interinstitutional policy for the Representations in the EU —‘Houses of Europe’ C(2005)4010 dated 19.10.2005. . In Vienna the Commission will rent the offices from Parliament which will remain the full owner of the premises. For the funding of its Representations the Commission's budget (expenditure related to equipment, furniture and services, buildings and other working expenditure of the communication policy area) amounts approximately to EUR 25 million. The Parliament covers the expenditure related to its own offices via its own administrative budget. 4. Following an agreement between Parliament and the Commission, a new ‘European Public Space’ is planned to be set up in Vienna in 2009. Compared to the currently existing documentation centre, the European Public Space will have more space, a modern and bigger conference room, more possibilities for discussions with citizens and events with a European focus. All these new facilities will address the aim of European Public Spaces to reach new target groups by the means of innovative actions, mainly, but not only, in the fields of culture, youth and civil society. Creating a more attractive and convenient European Public Space will inevitably lead to more lively interaction, dialogue and engagement of citizens. 5. The Commission respects multilingualism and makes every effort to implement it whenever it is practically achievable. Following this principle, the term ‘European Public Space’ will not be used in all Member States. A national expression indicating this new space for citizens can be used in each