15 November 2004 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION tabled for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Michael Gahler, John Bowis and Bernd Posselt on behalf of the PPE-ED Group on the situation of human rights in Eritrea European parliament resolution on the situation of human rights in Eritrea The European parliament, - Having regard to the ruling against Eritrea by the African Commission on Human Rights in March 2004, A. Deeply concerned by Eritrea's steadily deteriorating human rights situation, and dismayed by the manifest lack of cooperation from the Eritrean authorities, despite repeated appeals by international human rights organisations and NGOs, B. Strongly deploring the continued imprisonment without charges since September 2001 of the so-called Asmara-11, a group of former ruling party members of parliament urging for democratisation, C. Deploring also the continued detention incommunicado, without charge or trial, of at least 13 independent journalists since the government shut-down of the independent media in September 2001, D. Whereas as a consequence press freedom is virtually non-existent in Eritrea, and whereas the last remaining foreign correspondent was expelled from the country last October, E. Whereas in the latest incident thousands of youths were arrested on 4 November on suspicion of evading military conscription, are being held incommunicado in Adi Abeto military prison and are thought to be at serious risk of torture and ill-treatment, F. Whereas at least a dozen prisoners have reportedly been shot dead and many more were wounded following a disturbance at the prison on 4 November, G. Whereas respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, constitutes an essential element of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement, 1. Firmly condemns all human rights abuses in Eritrea and calls on the country's authorities to uphold human rights and fully cooperate with international human rights organisations and NGOs; 2. Calls on the Eritrean authorities to immediately release the 11 former members of parliament, in compliance with the ruling by the African Commission on Human Rights of March 2004; 3. Calls on the Eritrean authorities to lift fothwith the ban on the country's independent press and to immediately release the 13 independent journalists and all others who have been jailed simply for exercising their right to freedom of expression; 4. Calls on the Eritrean authorities to respect the human rights of all detainees, including the youths arrested on 4 November, and allow them immediate access to their families and lawyers; 5. Calls for a thorough and independent investigation of the incident at the Adi Abeto military prison on 4 November, where at least a dozen prisoners have reportedly been shot dead, and calls for those responsible to be brought to justice; 6. Calls on the EU Council and Commission to open immediate consultations with the Government of Eritrea under Article 96 of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement, with a view to restoring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the ACP-EU