the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue in the context of the Barcelona Process. At the same time, it demonstrates the successful progress of commercial relations between the Union and Israel. The figures confirm this: trade with the EU accounts for 36 % of Israel’s total trade. There is further evidence of this positive trend: - the conclusion, on 9 December 2004, of the negotiations between the Commission and the Israeli government on the ‘Action Plan’ in the context of the new neighbourhood policy. (Israel, Morocco, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority constituted the first group of countries to have reached such agreement); - the trade agreement between Israel, Jordan and the European Union, modelled on the one previously concluded between the two Mediterranean countries and the United States, which made a great contribution to the economic development of Jordan, should allow the three parties concerned, but especially the two Middle Eastern countries, to take advantage of the Paneuromed agreement on the cumulation of origin rules. This agreement should be extended to other countries in the region in order to increase the volume of trade between all the Euro-Mediterranean countries; - finally, the agreement initialled between the Commission and the State of Israel on 13 December 2004, which largely settled the dispute regarding different interpretations of the rules of origin for products from Israel and the territories of Gaza and Jericho. The conclusion is that bilateral trade relations with Israel can therefore be considered as fairly good and concern all sectors, from agriculture to the most advanced technologies. Some considerations on the impact that the development of trade may have on the progress of détente between Israel and the Palestinian Authority and on the European Union's role in this area: - it is hoped that an agreement will be concluded on the cumulation of origin of goods with the Palestinian Authority too, in view of the close inter-dependence - if only for geographical reasons - between the two countries, which may also be of great assistance in the ongoing peace process; - Israel's withdrawal from the territories in the Gaza Strip, which should return to full Palestinian control from next August, raises the issue of the region's future economic development. The only useful way of achieving this purpose seems to entail not only the financial, but above all the technical and diplomatic involvement of the European Union, in order to move the dialogue between the two parties forward. Direct negotiations in the presence of the Commission may be the way to reach a solution acceptable to everyone, combining the importance, and hence the positive potential, of free trade with the security needs of the countries concerned. This opinion gives the Committee on International Trade the opportunity to emphasise its support for the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean free-trade area, as envisaged in the Barcelona Declaration of 28 November 1995. SUGGESTIONS The Committee on International Trade calls on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Welcomes the Protocol signed between the European Union and the