Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (1 March 2011) Security costs may vary depending on the type of implementation partner and on the type of operation. It is important to distinguish between: (a) Security expenditures related to the implementation of projects and programmes funded by the Commission; (b) Security expenditures related to Trust Funds administered by international organisations. (a) Security expenditures related to the implementation of projects and programmes funded by the Commission With respect to projects managed centrally by the Commission (implemented with the support of Technical Cooperation service contracts) and NGO projects, the average proportion of security costs relative to total EU assistance is 1-2 %. However, there are differences due to the type of projects, project location, security needs and related response strategy). Proportions range from 0.04 % to 7.7 %, with some projects not incurring any specific security-related costs. (b) Trust Funds administered by international organisations In Afghanistan, the EU frequently contributes to Multi Donor Trust Funds, which are managed by international organisations. In this case, the international organisations are in charge of the costs related to security measures and the EU contributes to them indirectly. The World Bank in Kabul calculates that their identifiable security-related costs (such as, for instance, armed guards on compounds and residences, amortised armoured vehicles, routine security maintenance, etc.) account for approximately 7-9 % of their total administrative budget in Afghanistan, the administrative budget corresponds in turn to approximately 1.5 %-2.5 % of the total budget of the programme implemented in Afghanistan The United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) confirms that UN security costs account for 10-12 % of their programmes' costs. In addition, all UN agencies contribute to the United Nations Department of Safety and Security (UNDSS), which is responsible for security analysis, overall security of UN staff, etc. At its meeting on 28 September 2010, the Budgetary Control Committee examined aid to Afghanistan and the Commission responded to various questions.