thus likely ... to restrict the free movement of insurance services in the European Union ." As Mr HOLMES points out in WE 84 Page 25. , the Commission's Communication dwells on the difficulties faced by insurance companies, " but the potential for confusion on the part of consumers is still more pronounced. In the event of a problem, consumers are faced with the task of unpicking whether their complaint relates to financial supervision (and is therefore within the province of the home State of the insurance undertaking) or some other aspect of regulation, and if the latter, whether it is covered by the residual regulatory competence reserved for the State of the branch or the state of the provision of services ". An internal paper of the Irish regulator entitled 'Report to the Equitable Life Assurance Society' See document enclosed as Appendix G by Mr O'Broin to completed questionnaire (WE-FILE 33). indicates that the provisions of the Third Life Directive gave rise to confusion even among regulators at the time: " Responsibility for the supervision of the Irish branch of Equitable would appear to have rested with the FSA. However, Equitable's website (on 12 August 2003) included the following statement 'Please note that policies with Equitable International, Equitable Germany and Equitable Ireland are not regulated by the FSA'. While this statement refers to 'policies' rather than the branch itself, it is not clear how it can be said that the FSA is not responsible for the regulation of Equitable Ireland given the fact that it is not a separate legal entity and the provisions of the Directive ... ". As regards the treatment of policyholders' complaints, the Irish financial regulator indicated that in general it did not have the power to adjudicate on them and therefore referred complainants to the Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland. By contrast, the German regulator does have such powers and received complaints about ELAS. However, most complaints purportedly concerned matters of prudential supervision, and were therefore not dealt with by the German regulator. Evidence shows that, where the matters complained about clearly fell outside its remit, the German regulator advised complainants to contact the FSA, whereas the Irish regulator generally referred complainants to the Irish Insurance Ombudsman. No conclusive evidence could be obtained form the German regulator as to whether (clearly conduct of business related) mis-selling complaints in connection with the GAR issue were received and how these were treated. Given that the German regulator did not believe that ELAS had breached any German conduct of business rules, it must be assumed that any such complaints would have been rejected. Commenting in general terms from the perspective of consumers, Mr WESTPHAL claimed that " cross-border complaints are often rejected by the supervisory authority of the country of the consumer " telling the complainant that " the home country supervisor of the provider would be responsible " (WS2). In his view, the authority of the country of the consumer should have a clear responsibility for dealing with complaints, irrespective of whether or not the matters complained about fall