the ALDE Group, Cristiana Muscardini , on behalf of the UEN Group, Daniel Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Vittorio Agnoletto , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Patrick Louis , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Bruno Gollnisch , Non-attached Member, Charles Tannock , Józef Pinior , Dirk Sterckx , Konrad Szymański , Thomas Mann , Adrian Severin , Bronisław Geremek , Marcin Libicki , Edward McMillan-Scott and Janez Lenarčič . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Jacek Protasiewicz , Cornelis Visser , John Purvis , José Ribeiro e Castro , Milan Horáček , Tunne Kelam , Ana Maria Gomes , Ewa Tomaszewska , Marios Matsakis , Zuzana Roithová , Lasse Lehtinen , Helga Trüpel , Marco Cappato , Christopher Beazley , Mario Borghezio , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Zita Pleštinská , Piia-Noora Kauppi and Vytautas Landsbergis . The following spoke: Benita Ferrero-Waldner . As the motions for a resolution tabled were not yet available, they would be announced in the House at a later time. The debate closed. Vote: 10.04.2008 . 7 Interpretation of the Rules of Procedure The President informed the House, under Rule 201(3), of the following interpretation of Rule 179(3), provided by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which had been consulted on the application of that provision: 'If Parliament, acting pursuant to Rule 175 of the Rules of Procedure, has conferred a task on a temporary committee, no committees shall be asked for their opinions, unless determined otherwise on the basis of the mandate approved by Parliament or of decisions taken by the temporary committee in the light of that mandate.' If this interpretation was not contested by a political group or by at least 40 Members (Rule 201(4)) before the minutes of the current sitting were adopted it would be deemed to have been adopted. Otherwise, the matter would be put to the vote in Parliament. 8 Dates of forthcoming sittings The next sittings would be held on 09.04.2008 and 10.04.2008. 9 Adjournment of the session The session of the European Parliament was adjourned. The sitting closed at 18.00. Harald R ømer Hans-Gert Pöttering Secretary-General President ATTENDANCE REGISTER The following signed: Adamou Agnoletto Aita Alvaro Andrejevs Andria Andrikienė Angelilli Arif Arnaoutakis Atkins Attwooll Aubert Audy Ayuso Baco Badia i Cutchet Barsi-Pataky Batzeli Bauer Beaupuy Beazley Becsey Beer Belet Belohorská Berend Berès Berman Birutis Blokland Böge Bonde Borghezio Boştinaru Botopoulos Bourzai Bowis Bradbourn Braghetto Brepoels Březina Brie Brok Budreikaitė Bulfon Bullmann Bulzesc van den Burg Bushill-Matthews Busk Buşoi Buzek Callanan Capoulas Santos Cappato Casa Casaca Casini Caspary Castex Catania Cederschiöld Cercas Chatzimarkakis Chichester Chmielewski Christensen Chukolov Claeys Coelho Cohn-Bendit Corbey Corda Corlăţean Cottigny Cramer Corina Creţu Gabriela Creţu Crowley Csibi Daul David de Brún Demetriou Deprez De Rossa Descamps Désir Deß De Veyrac De Vits Díaz de Mera García Consuegra Dičkutė Dillen Dimitrakopoulos Dobolyi Dombrovskis Doorn Douay Doyle Drčar Murko Duchoň Duff Duka-Zólyomi Dumitriu Ek Estrela Ettl Fazakas Ferber Fernandes Fernández Martín Ferrari Anne Ferreira Elisa Ferreira Figueiredo Filip Flasarová Florenz Foltyn-Kubicka Fontaine Fouré Fourtou França Frassoni Friedrich Gacek Gahler Gaľa García-Margallo y Marfil