on 29 and 30 December 2002 of former colonel Pham Que Duong and researcher Tran Khue for their pro-democracy and anti-corruption initiatives and stances, as well as the recent unfair trials of so-called cyber-dissidents, whose activities in legitimately exercising their freedom of expression have been labelled as espionage, K. alarmed at the introduction of a draft law placing restrictions on the right to protest following non-violent demonstrations by smallholders against abuses of power and corruption, which have resulted in dozens of convictions, L. saddened that, in spite of Vietnam's openly stated desire to establish the rule of law, the government has been and is introducing laws and decrees that violate the right to freedom of expression and of religion enshrined in the ICCPR, including offences classified in the penal code relating to the catch-all concept of "national security" and Decree 31/CP of 1997 on "administrative detention" (detention without trial), M. concerned at the continuing arrests, harassment and imprisonment of peaceful dissidents and journalists by the government of Vietnam, N. concerned at the government's decree of 18 June 2002 banning Vietnamese citizens from watching foreign TV programmes beamed in by satellite, 1. Draws attention to the fact that a state based on the rule of law requires clear and precise laws guaranteeing equality and legal certainty for all, and should not be built on laws that give rise to discrimination on grounds of race, religion or political views; 2. Condemns, therefore, the improper recourse to classified offences relating to "national security", such as espionage, or to those relating to "abusing democratic rights to encroach upon the interests of the State" or to "public disturbances" in order to suppress freedom of expression, religious freedom and press freedom; 3. Calls on the Vietnamese authorities to respect the religious freedom of all religious groups and to re-establish the legitimate status of the UBCV and all other unrecognised churches; 4. Welcomes the recent meeting between the Vietnamese Prime Minister, Phan Van Khai, and the head of the unofficial UBCV; encourages the Vietnamese government to continue this dialogue; 5. Calls on the Vietnamese government to release all prisoners of conscience, especially the Venerable Thich Huyen Quang, the Venerable Thich Quang Do and Father Nguyen Van Ly, and to guarantee them their full political and civil rights, including freedom of movement; 6. Calls on the Vietnamese government to stop the continuing arrest, harassment and detention of indigenous Montagnard Christians; 7. Demands in this regard that the European Union and its Member States, which support legislative reform in Vietnam, urge the government to ensure that the reform and the laws to be reformed are compatible with the ICCPR; 8. Calls on the Vietnamese government to abolish Decree 31/CP and all other laws suppressing peaceful activities that are considered to be a threat to national security; 9. Calls on the Vietnamese government to stop the continuing arrests, harassment and imprisonment of peaceful dissidents and journalists; 10. Calls on the Vietnamese government to lift all restrictions on the free flow of information; 11. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the