the internal market in electricity OJ L 176, 15.7.2003, p. 37. Directive as amended by Council Directive 2004/85/EC (OJ L 236, 7.7.2004, p. 10). and Directive 2003/55/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas OJ L 176, 15.7.2003, p. 57. . Those priorities reflect the conclusions of the Stockholm European Council of 23 and 24 March 2001 concerning the development of the infrastructure needed for the operation of the energy market. A special effort should be undertaken to achieve the objective of making greater use of renewable energy sources as a contribution to further a sustainable development policy. However, this objective should be achieved without creating disproportionate disturbances to the normal market equilibrium. Full account should also be taken of the objectives of the Community's transport policy and , specifically , the opportunity to reduce road traffic by using pipelines. (3) This Decision serves to move closer towards the target for the level of electricity interconnection between Member States which was agreed at the Barcelona European Council of 15 and 16 March 2002, and thus improve network reliability and integrity, and ensure that there is security of supply and that the internal market functions properly. (4) As a rule, the construction and maintenance of energy infrastructure should be subject to market principles. This is also in line with the common rules for the completion of the internal market in energy and the common rules on competition law which aim at the creation of a more open and competitive internal energy market. Community financial aid for construction and maintenance should therefore remain highly exceptional, and such exceptions should be duly justified. (5) Energy infrastructure should be constructed and maintained so as to enable the internal energy market to operate efficiently, with due regard to existing procedures for consulting the people affected, without detracting from strategic and, where appropriate, universal service criteria and public service obligations. (6) In the light of potential synergies between natural gas networks and olefin networks, due importance should be placed on the development and integration of olefin networks in order to meet the olefin gas consumption needs of industries in the Community. (7) The priorities for trans-European energy networks also stem from the growing importance of the trans-European energy networks for securing and diversifying the Community's energy supplies, incorporating the energy networks of the new Member States, accession and candidate countries, and ensuring the coordinated operation of the energy networks in the Community and in neighbouring countries after consulting the Member States concerned. Indeed , the Community's neighbouring countries play a vital role in its energy policy. They supply a major part of the Community's natural gas requirements, are key partners for the transit of primary energy to the Community and will progressively become more important players in its internal gas and electricity markets. (8) Among the projects relating to trans-European energy networks, it is necessary to highlight the priority projects, which are very important for the operation of the internal energy market or