Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (4 October 2006) The interception of electronic communications is a matter that mainly falls under the competence of national governments. This is also reflected in the Community law on the protection of personal data, such as Directives 95/46/EC Directive 95/46/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, OJ L 281, 23.11.1995. and 2002/58/EC Directive 2002/58/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communications), OJ L 201, 31.7.2002. . The data protection directives impose on Member States the obligation to adopt legislation notably to ensure the confidentialy of communications. The directives do not apply to the processing of personal data in the course of an activity which falls outside the scope of Community law, such as those provided for by Titles V and VI of the Treaty on the European Union and in any case to processing operations concerning public security, defence, State security (including the economic well-being of the State when the processing operation relates to State security matters) and the activities of the State in areas of criminal law. The directive provides furthermore a number of exceptions enabling Member States to adopt legislative measures to restrict the scope of the obligations and rights provided in the data protection directives when such a restriction constitutes a necessary measure for instance to safeguard national security, public security, prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences, or to safeguard a monitoring, inspection or regulatory function connected, even occasionally, with the aforementioned safeguard measures. The Commission does not intend to regulate interceptions further than is the case under existing Community law (see also answer to Written Question P‑1731/06 by Mr Papadimoulis). In any event, Member States are bound by Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union which provides that: ‘1. The Union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law, principles which are common to the Member States. 2. The Union shall respect fundamental rights, as guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms signed in Rome on 4 November 1950 and as they result from the constitutional traditions common to the Member States, as general principles of Community law.’ Article 8 of the European Convention provides for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms for the right to respect for private and family life.