WRITTEN QUESTION P-1291/05 by Georgios Papastamkos (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (4 April 2005) Subject: Tackling misleading statistical results in Western Macedonia The region of Western Macedonia is one of those being phased out of the ‘convergence’ objective, since its per capita gross regional product (GRP) is 76.89 % of the average GNP of EU‑25. However, this comparatively high percentage does not reflect a process of dynamic regional growth and a high standard of living. This is because, firstly, it is due to ‘statistical results’ (the per capita gross regional product of Western Macedonia amounts to 70.15 % of the average GNP of EE‑15) and, secondly, the GRP of the region of Western Macedonia is boosted by the Greek Electricity Board's exploitation of lignite mines in the prefectures of Kozani and Florina. This means that the region's comparatively high per capita GRP is misleading, i.e. does not reflect endogenous economic power. For example, despite the existence of Greek Electricity Board plants, the region in question has the highest unemployment rate (16.1 %) in the country; and if composite prosperity indicators were used instead of just the per capita GRP, the region's ranking would change from the 4th place it occupies at present to 11th place out of the 13 regions of which Greece is currently composed. In order to remedy this obvious injustice and to prevent the region being phased out of the ‘convergence’ objective, which would adversely affect its future development, will the Commission say: 1. Are there any instances, in other Member States, of regions with a concentration of energy plants (for instance, natural gas or oil) in which the Commission has accepted that the gross regional product be extended to their entire territory? 2. Is it acceptable that the GRP be calculated by extending to the entire country part of the added value produced by the Greek Electricity Board regional plants in Western Macedonia, particularly as there are substantial outflows of revenue from the regional economy to the rest of the country, since the activities of the Athens-based Greek Electricity Board (being currently virtually the sole producer and distributor of electricity) cover all the regions of Greece?