Answer given by Mr Tajani on behalf of the Commission (6 December 2011) In the communication on raw materials adopted in February 2011, the Commission recognises that many of the raw materials which the EU imports are produced in a few countries, some of which are subject to low political and economic stability. For one of these increased-risk countries — the Democratic Republic of Congo — the OECD considers that trade in certain minerals, namely in tantalum, tungsten, tin and gold, has a potential to exacerbate regional conflict in specific eastern Congolese regions. The Commission, which has been closely involved in ongoing OECD efforts to address the issue of conflict minerals, strongly supports the OECD's Due Diligence Guidance on Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals. In the above Communication, the Commission proposed to ‘examine ways to improve transparency throughout the supply chain and tackle in coordination with key trade partners situations where revenues from extractive industries are used to fund wars or internal conflicts’. At the same time, the Commission notes that the EU has imposed, under Council Regulation (EC) No 1183/2005, sanctions against individuals or entities supporting illegal armed groups in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo through illicit trade of natural resources. Following the response of a previous question P-004340/2011 . and the resolution adopted by the European Parliament P7 TA(2011)0364. and with regard to US action in this area, the Commission is closely following the implementation of 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Act and its impact on the Democratic Republic of Congo’s minerals trade. As the finalisation of the proposed rules of the US Dodd-Frank Act has been postponed, further analysis is necessary to evaluate the impact of this policy. Moreover, the Commission is also examining ways to improve the traceability by among others a designated expert Working Group on management of natural resources in conflict and post-conflict area in the framework of the Joint Africa-EU Action Plan. Finally, the Commission is taking action to improve corporate social responsibility across the board. On 25 October 2011 the Commission approved a new European Strategy on Corporate Social Responsibility, which takes into account the importance of internationally agreed CSR guidelines and principles, such as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.