following suggestions by 22 votes to 0, with 1 abstention. The following were present for the vote: Giuseppe Gargani (chairman), Willi Rothley (vice-chairman), Ioannis Koukiadis (vice-chairman), Manuel Medina Ortega (draftsman), Maria Luisa Bergaz Conesa (for Alain Krivine pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Maria Berger, Bert Doorn, Janelly Fourtou, Marie-Françoise Garaud, Malcolm Harbour, Philippe A.R. Herzog (for Michel J.M. Dary pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Hans Karlsson (for Evelyne Gebhardt), Giorgos Katiforis (for François Zimeray pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Carlos Lage (for Carlos Candal pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Kurt Lechner, Klaus-Heiner Lehne, Sir Neil MacCormick, Hans-Peter Mayer (for José María Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado), Arlene McCarthy, Marcelino Oreja Arburúa (for Lord Inglewood), Barbara O'Toole (for Fiorella Ghilardotti), Imelda Mary Read (for Bill Miller), Diana Wallis. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Reiterates what it said in its report on the Commission's White Paper 'European governance' and its report on the Commission's communications on simplifying and improving Community regulation. 2. Reiterates its view that improving the quality of legislation, transparency and the opening up of the institutions to so-called 'organised civil society', to professional, trade union and business sectors and to citizens as a whole cannot be a substitute for citizens' access to public power by means of open and increasingly democratic electoral processes. 3. Urges that the improvement of the bond between citizens and the European Union's institutions should be achieved primarily by increasing Parliament's legislative powers, through uniform electoral legislation to provide increasingly direct communication between MEPs and their voters and by means of genuine transparency in the work, sessions and proceedings of the Council, at least as far as its legislative function is concerned. 4. Points out that, notwithstanding the above, and in addition to it, the Treaties stipulate that the Commission has the obligation, during the process of preparing legislative or other initiatives, to consult the sectors involved and the most well-qualified experts; within the framework of these consultations the Commission can and should organise itself and the advice it requires in the (deletion) most appropriate way, basing itself, where it needs to be selective, on relevant criteria such as expertise and representativeness . 5. Stresses the important role which may be played in the integration of the European Union by citizens acting together in the form of social organisations. 6. Considers, similarly, that the Commission, throughout the whole process of taking advice before a piece of draft legislation is put forward, should enjoy adequate political and professional freedom (deletion) . 7. Considers it essential that the implementation of the Commission’s framework for consultation be dealt with in the annual report on ‘better regulation’. 8. Considers that the Commission, in the collection and use of expert opinions, must ensure compliance with the duty of responsibility, pluralism and the integrity of experts. 7 July 2003 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs