or feed products which are placed on the market or are likely to be placed on the market in the Community shall be adequately labelled or identified to facilitate their traceability, through relevant documentation or information, so as to facilitate withdrawal and recall. Amendment 61 Article 10, paragraph 1 1. Food and feed business operators at all stages of production and distribution within the businesses under their control shall ensure that foods or feeds satisfy the relevant requirements of food law and shall put in place systems and procedures to verify and monitor that such requirements are met. 1. Food and feed product business operators at all stages of production and distribution shall ensure that the businesses under their control apply, to any food or feed product, the requirements of food law relevant to their activities and shall put in place systems and procedures to verify and monitor that such requirements are met. Similarly, producers of feed products for consumption on their own holding shall comply with the appropriate legislation on feed. Amendment 62 Article 10, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 2. Member States shall enforce food law, and monitor and verify that the relevant requirements of food law are fulfilled by food and feed business operators at all stages of production and distribution. 2. Member States shall enforce food law, and monitor and verify that the relevant requirements of food law are fulfilled by food and feed product business operators at all stages of production and distribution, regardless of whether the food is intended for the Community market or for export to third countries . Amendment 63 Article 10, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 a (new) Member States shall ensure confidentiality at all stages (during official controls and in particular during the monitoring process) of information obtained and conveyed in the development or enforcement of food law. Amendment 64 Article 11 The provisions of this Chapter shall be without prejudice to Council Directive 85/374/EEC concerning liability for defective products. The provisions of this Chapter shall be without prejudice to Council Directive 85/374/EEC concerning liability for defective products , as last amended by Directive 1999/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 May 1999( 1 ). ____________ ( 1 )OJ L 141, 4.6.1999, p. 20. Amendment 65 Article 12, paragraph 4, point (c) (c) to the particular sensitivities of a specific category of consumers where the food is intended for that category of consumers. (c) to the particular health sensitivities of a specific category of consumers where the food is intended for that category of consumers. Amendment 66 Article 12, paragraph 7 7. Food that complies with specific Community provisions of food law shall be deemed to be safe insofar as the aspects covered by the specific Community provisions are concerned. 7. Food that complies with specific Community provisions governing food safety shall be deemed to be safe insofar as the aspects covered by the specific Community provisions are concerned. Amendment 67 Article 12, paragraph 8 8. Where there are no specific Community provisions, food shall be deemed to be safe