Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (13 October 2008) The EU cooperation with Ukraine in the field of environment constitutes an important part of the overall EU‑Ukraine relations. Ukraine faces many environmental problems at the moment. The Commission assists in resolving many of them, water issues including water pollution being one of the priorities. The Commission is aware of the Tisza River pollution and the fact that the erratic discharge of waters with high salt content has negative impact on environment. This issue is included in the 2007 Analysis of the Tisza Basin See also http://www.icpdr.org/icpdr-pages/tisza_basin.htm. This analysis was prepared in the framework of the implementation of the Water Framework Directive (EC/2000/60) in the Tisza basin. , as one of the issues to be addressed in the Tisza River Basin Management Plan, planned for 2009. Via the Danube River Protection Convention and the memorandum of understanding for the Tisza, Ukraine committed itself to contribute to preparing a river basin management plan for the Tisza river basin in line with Directive 2000/60/EC OJ L 327, 22.12.2000. on establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy. The Commission actively supports the preparations for the Tisza river basin management plan. At the moment, the EU is in the course of preparing the programme on Water Governance in the Western EECCA Countries (Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia); (Tacis/2008/137-153 (EC)). The project planning for Ukraine, as stated in the inception report, aims, inter alia , at giving recommendations for more effective collaboration on water-ecological issues with countries that share transboundary river basins with Ukraine, at justifying proposals for development of ecological quality standards and emission limit values and at specifying possibilities for ecological quality standards use within the Integrated Water Resources Management process. In addition, the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) national programme for Ukraine could provide support for tackling this issue through the normal programming procedure. With regard to available resources, the Commission would also like to inform the Honourable Member that the South-East Europe transnational cooperation programme, which is a Structural Funds programme supported by the European Regional Development Fund and the Instrument for Pre-Accession, covers the area concerned, including the town of Aknaszlatina. The programme, which runs from 2007‑13, can support actions in fields such as protection of the environment, management of river basins and risk prevention. The programme operates competitive calls for projects, and the projects focused on the Tisza river basin could be supported by the programme. The programme website is www.southeast-europe.net. Other possibilities are provided by programmes of cross-border cooperation involving Ukraine, Romania and Hungary. Studies to identify the reasons and solutions of an environmental problem that affects all the parties, as well as small investments may be financed using this form of cooperation.