into account 5. Road map towards convergence and equivalence Global convergence of accounting standards has proceeded at an ever-increasing pace. At present, almost 100 countries permit or require the use of IFRS. A key element to this increased global interest was the EU's determination to require all its publicly traded companies to use IFRS in their consolidated financial statements from the beginning of 2005. Under the IAS Regulation a small proportion of companies were allowed to use US GAAPs until 1 January 2007. The IASB and the FASB (the US accounting standard setter) have published a very full joint work programme. The objective is to achieve progress towards the equivalence of each other's accounting standards by 2009. On 20 June 2007 the American Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) submitted a proposal for consultation on the recognition of statements based on the IFRS. This is very welcome news, since the US, in accordance with the agreement signed between the US and the EU on 30 April, is considering measures aimed at waiving the costly reconciliation requirements hitherto applicable for European undertakings listed in the US. However, closer examination reveals that the SEC intends to recognise only financial statements drawn up according to the English version of the standards adopted by the IASB. The Commission wrote to the SEC in the autumn of 2007 calling for the recognition of IFRS, which has the force of EU law. The existing version of the IAS/IFRS standards, which have the force of law in the EU – the main applier of IFRS – might in future be considered as local variations by the US authority, and thus not binding. The SEC, a national body, is thus giving private proposals from a body outside political control priority over current EU law. For its part, the SEC could submit American interpretations of current IFRS rules, and require European companies which wish to present financial statements in the United States in accordance with IFRS to comply with those, thereby itself creating a US variation on the IFRS. There is also the risk of the SEC becoming the ultimate body interpreting the IFRS. The Commission must be given fundamental responsibility vis-à-vis the IASB so that EU interests are taken into account in this convergence process on an equal footing with American interests. In the meantime, questions have also been raised regarding the appropriateness of full convergence between US-GAAP and the IFRS. It must be taken into account that IFRS is also applicable to firms which are listed on several stock exchanges, although this does not apply to the vast majority of firms applying it. Efforts to achieve a single reporting standard by approximating the two dominant standards at world level might prove too great: efforts towards convergence were necessary as long as more standards were in use worldwide than the current two leading standards. An alternative to convergence between these two standards would be the political recognition of equivalence between both standards, which differ in content but are of an equally high quality. On 12 July 2007 the Commission submitted a