Reply (22 December 2006) The Council sets great store by the fight against this form of organised crime. A series of measures have been taken in order to combat this scourge: — Council Directive 2004/81/EC on residence permits for victims of trafficking in human beings OJ L 261, 6.8.2004 . ; — Council Framework Decision 2002/629/JHA on combating trafficking in human beings OJ L 203, 1.8.2002 . ; — the Council has adopted a Council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the EC, of the UN Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially women and children (UN Trafficking Protocol), and on 7 September 2006, the Community became a Contracting party to that Protocol; — the Council adopted, on 1 December 2005, the action plan on trafficking in human beings. This action plan sets out the strategy of the Council in the fight against trafficking in human beings. The ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on Action Against Trafficking in Human Beings and the Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially women and children supplementing the UN Convention against Transnational Organised Crime is a matter for Member States. In the abovementioned action plan on trafficking in human beings, the Council called upon Member States to proceed in an expedient manner with the ratification of both important international instruments. The fight against trafficking in human beings is also a concern which the Council mainstreams into the instruments which form the basis for the European Union's external relations, particularly in the context of development cooperation. On this subject, the ‘European consensus on development’, which was a joint statement adopted in December 2005 by the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission, includes the fight against trafficking in human beings as one of the objective of European development aid in the wider context of the fight against poverty. Also, on 17 October 2006, the Council adopted conclusions welcoming the governance initiative under the 10th European Development Fund, which incorporates the fight against trafficking in human beings under the heading of migration.