in order to provide for an adequate level of data protection, including for the processing of personal data at national level. Amendment 5 Proposal for a Council framework decision Recital 12 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment (12a) Knowledge concerning the existence of convictions and of the prohibitions arising therefrom, and also concerning the place in which these were handed down and recorded, must be provided in order to ensure that extracts from criminal records are easy to understand. Hence the Member States must establish comparable formats for extracts containing convictions, with a special section to be created for convictions relating to sexual offences. Justification It must be ensured that extracts from criminal records are easy to understand and that the information contained in them is put to proper use. That objective may be achieved if the various types of conviction are grouped together: for example, convictions for offences against property, convictions for offences against other persons, convictions for sexual offences, and so on. Grouping by type of conviction would ensure that persons convicted for sexual offences are immediately identifiable. Amendment 6 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 5 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Council Amendment 2. Any alteration or deletion of information transmitted in accordance with Article 4(4) shall entail identical alteration or deletions by the Member State of the person's nationality regarding information stored in accordance with paragraph 1 for the purpose of retransmission in accordance with Article 7 . 2. Any alteration or deletion of information transmitted in accordance with Article 4(4) shall entail identical alteration or deletions by the Member State of the person's nationality regarding information stored in accordance with paragraph 1. Justification The final part of the proposed article introduces a dual system as regards convictions handed down in a Member State other than the Member State of which the convicted person is a national (one system for domestic use and the other for requesting Member States other than the Member State of nationality). This dual system will only make the task of transmitting information more complex and more confusing. Amendment 7 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 5 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Council Amendment 3. For the purpose of retransmission in accordance with Article 7 the Member State of the person's nationality may only use information which has been updated in accordance with paragraph 2. 3. The Member State of the person's nationality may only use information which has been updated in accordance with paragraph 2. Justification The final part of the proposed article introduces a dual system as regards convictions handed down in a Member State other than the Member State of which the convicted person is a national (one system for domestic use and the other for requesting Member States other than the Member State of nationality). This dual system will only make the task of transmitting information more complex and more confusing. Amendment 8 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 6 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment