children and grandparents disappearing through the actions of official state forces, and whereas these prisoners are exposed to gross human rights violations, torture, starvation, hard labour and according to eye witnesses an estimated 100,000 might already have perished, often of exhaustion or untreated diseases; N. whereas satellite images and various accounts by North Korean defectors substantiate that DPRK operates six political concentration camps, with over 150,000 political prisoners, and that when adding the numbers of all other categories of prisoners, such as those forcibly repatriated from China, an estimated number of more than 200,000 people are incarcerated in detention centres; O. whereas large parts of the population suffer from systematic starvation and are to a large extent dependent on international food aid and whereas the World Food Program reported in September 2009 that a third of North Korean women and children are malnourished; and whereas the government of DPRK has rejected the recommendation of the UN Human Rights Council Universal Periodic Review to end discrimination in the distribution of food; and whereas mass food shortages and famine are of serious concern, and have significant implications for a wide spectrum of human rights; P. whereas the society is governed by a “military first” policy and the Juche ideology which requires veneration of the country’s leader; Q. whereas the "currency reform" of November 30, 2009 resulted in severe damage to the already ailing economy and led to impoverishment of non privileged parts of society; R. whereas according to credible defector reports, the non-elite population is subject to discrimination and persecution as well as access to education and employment opportunities based on their “songbun” - social class status as determined by their or their family’s loyalty to the regime; 1. Calls on the Members of the Security Council to work to establish a UN Commission of Inquiry to assess past and present human rights violations in DPRK to determine to which extent such violations and impunity associated with the abuses may constitute crimes against humanity and be subject to international criminal jurisdiction; Calls on EU Member States to sponsor a resolution at the UN General Assembly establishing a UN Commission of Inquiry to assess grave human rights violations in DPRK; 2. Calls on the North Korean Government to follow up on the recommendations of the Report of the UN Human Rights Council Working Group on Universal Periodic Review which include the setting up a national human rights organisation and cooperation with UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. 3. Calls for EU to maintain bilateral and multilateral targeted sanctions that will focus on the regime elite in DPRK but which will not make life more difficult for average North Korean citizens; 4. Calls on the government of the DPRK to put an immediate end to the ongoing grave, widespread and systematic human rights violations in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea; 5. Calls on the government of the DPRK to ensure access of all its citizens to food and other basic necessities; 6. Calls for the government of the DPRK to immediately and permanently stop public