facts to prospective policyholders: the 'Risk Factors' section of the Key Features document provided being silent about the GAR risks." Members of the Late-Joiners action group reported that EL salesmen gave them different stories to soothe their concerns: " that press reports that the GAR liabilities might be in the order of £1.5bn were wrong; that the maximum cost to the Society was unlikely to exceed £50m; that the GAR liabilities would be ring-fenced among the GAR policyholders; that reinsurance was in place to protect non-GAR policyholders." (WE-CONF2) see WE-CONF2, para.38-40. Policyholder Mr. John GALVIN (WE-FILE15) complained that his decision to buy an Equitable Life policy was partly based on EL's reassurance of its solid financial standing confirmed by the "AA" rating obtained by the international rating agency Standard & Poor's In fact, the S&P rating of EL was 'AA' (investment grade) from 1993-1999, downgraded to A+ (watch neg.) only in May 1999, then below investment grade (BB/watch neg.) only in December 2000. It was then further downgraded to B in June 2001 and CCC (high default risk) in September 2001. No credit rating has been awarded by S&P since 21 February 2002 (WE-FILE22). (annex to EL letter in WE-FILE15). Referring to misleading information from EL to policyholders, Ms. KWANTES (H7) recalled that " when Equitable went to court on the GAR issue we all received letters to inform us that everything was fine, negative comments that had appeared in the press were nothing to worry about and there was a very impressive advertising campaign which gave us all a sense of security ." In H5 Mr. LLOYD, a former sales representative of Equitable Life in western England between 1995 and 2001, clearly dismissed all allegations of mis-selling by the Equitable sales force: "Telephoning for appointments, often to offer an annual review or a current update on policies, was nearly always welcomed by our clients. The news was often good and it was not difficult to propose new investments. The clients often commented on how their other providers did not offer the same level of service ... When the guaranteed annuity rate issue became known and talked about, which was I believe in around 1997 – that was the first time I had even heard about it – we very quickly received a briefing from the board. The briefing was to give clients a non-guaranteed final bonus and a GAR that only applied to the guaranteed element. That would be equivalent to giving that client 20% more than their fair share of the fund. This as a concept was not difficult to understand and not difficult to explain to clients from that point on. My own experience was that the response from clients who heard this explanation, including those who had GARs in their policies, was favourable." Client relations would thus have been good even in 2000 as " by approaching the whole issue during that period right up until the House of Lords ruling in July 2000, we had very little difficulty and very little problem with our clients accepting the