Answer given by Ms Malmström on behalf of the Commission (27 May 2011) The Commission fully shares the view of the Honourable Member that trafficking in human beings — and in particular trafficking of children and young people with disabilities or mental problems — is not only a terrible crime, but also a most serious infringement of the fundamental rights of the victims. On 5 April 2011 Directive 2011/36/EU on preventing and combating trafficking in human beings and protecting it victims OJ L 101, 15.4.2011. was adopted by the Parliament and the Council. This will give the European Union a strong common legal instrument, which will strengthen the fight against all forms of human trafficking as well as victim protection in all Member States. It should be highlighted that the directive will give Member States the obligation to provide assistance and support measures to victims, taking into account the individual needs of the victim. It shall include at least standards of living capable of ensuring victims' subsistence through measures such as the provision of appropriate and safe accommodation and material assistance, as well as necessary medical treatment including psychological assistance, counselling and information, and translation and interpretation services where appropriate (Article 11(5) of the directive). The directive also includes specific rules that give an even stronger right to assistance and support in cases where the victim is a child. In addition to this legislation, the Commission gives financial support to numerous projects aiming at reinforcing the fight against human trafficking as well as the protection and reintegration of its victims. An overview of Commission-funded projects that address trafficking in human beings can be found on the EU anti-trafficking website (http://ec.europa.eu/anti-trafficking/). Just recently, the Commission launched a study on the typology and policy responses to child begging in the EU. This study will give better insight in child begging and will address trafficking in human beings for the purpose of forced begging.