became increasingly used as a television studio." ] ], [ "Underwater (film)", [ "Underwater is an upcoming American adventure-thriller film directed by William Eubank and written by Brian Duffield.", " The film is produced by Chernin Entertainment for 20th Century Fox and stars Kristen Stewart, T.J. Miller, Jessica Henwick, Mamoudou Athie, Vincent Cassel and John Gallagher Jr..", " The film entered post-production on May 28, 2017." ] ], [ "J. Patrick Gallagher Jr", [ "J. Patrick Gallagher Jr is President, Chief Executive and Chairman of the Board of Arthur J. Gallagher & Co., the US-based global insurance brokerage and risk management services firm headquartered in Itasca, Chicago, Illinois.", " The company was founded by his grandfather, Arthur James Gallagher, in 1927, who later brought his three sons, Robert, John and James, into the business at the end of World War II.", " The Gallagher family owns approximately 1% of the company, but continues to hold numerous leadership positions." ] ], [ "Spencer Gallagher", [ "Spencer Gallagher (born November 20, 1989) is an American professional stock car racing driver.", " He currently competes full-time in the NASCAR Xfinity Series, driving the No. 23 Chevrolet Camaro for GMS Racing, and part-time in the Camping World Truck Series, driving the No. 23 Chevrolet Silverado for GMS Racing.", " He is also the son of Allegiant Air's CEO, Maurice J. Gallagher, Jr." ] ], [ "ValuJet Flight 592", [ "ValuJet Flight 592 was a regularly scheduled flight from Miami International Airport to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.", " On May 11, 1996, the ValuJet Airlines McDonnell-Douglas DC-9 operating the route crashed into the Everglades about 11 minutes after taking off from Miami as a result of a fire in the cargo compartment caused by improperly stored cargo.", " All 110 people on board perished.", " The airline already had a poor safety record before the crash, and the accident brought widespread attention to the airline's problems.", " The airline was grounded for several months after the accident.", " When operations resumed, ValuJet's reputation was so tarnished that it was forced to merge with AirTran Airways and rebrand itself as such to stay in business.", " To date, the accident remains the deadliest in the history of Florida." ] ] ] }