40 million people carrying the HIV virus, 90% live in a developing country, and 70% live in sub-Saharan Africa. Research is in progress and has resulted in new treatments which are recognised as effective, but are still unaffordable and inaccessible in practical terms for people living in developing countries. It is essential, therefore, for us to greatly increase the resources deployed, and to do so fast! According to Richard Feachem, Executive Director of the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the efforts being made at present have little impact on the development of this pandemic. In fact, he argues that the HIV/AIDS epidemic will peak in 2025/26. Malaria reappeared in the 1970s and kills around one million people a year. It is considered a neglected disease. Tuberculosis is on the increase again, particularly in conjunction with the spread of HIV. There are an estimated 8 million people with TB in the world, and 2 million deaths a year. 95% of TB sufferers live in developing countries. TB is also considered a neglected disease. In the last 25 years, only three new drugs have been developed. In most cases, drugs discovered decades ago are still being administered. These three diseases militate against the development of the countries affected and keep them in a state of poverty which, in turn, prevents them from setting up a health system worthy of the name. The Community wishes to help break this vicious circle, an aim which we must support. An action programme for ‘Accelerated action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of poverty reduction’ was adopted in 2001. The European Parliament is currently considering a proposal for a regulation aimed at implementing that programme and providing for measures geared to intervention in the field of development cooperation, trade relations and research with a view to developing new drugs. The proposal to use Article 169 in connection with action to combat HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria relates to the section of the action programme dealing with research. This provides for genuine North-South partnership for the development of clinical trials aimed at developing new products tailored to the requirements of people living in the developing countries. We welcome, on the one hand, the prospect of coordination and the networking of national programmes with a view to ending research fragmentation and thus achieving the critical mass required to obtain rapid results and, on the other hand, the involvement of the countries requesting assistance in the definition of priorities and the conduct of, and practical arrangements for, clinical trials. Such participation will be ensured by action to strengthen clinical research capacities in the developing countries, in token of the commitment to long-term collaboration. Despite the rapporteur’s unequivocal support for this proposal, the following points need to be made: 1. The Commission’s proposal is notably concise: six articles running to two pages, a one-page annex and a few recitals. It is brief to the point of inadequacy. Many important aspects are missing, for example as regards the definition of the programme. 2. The organisation of the planned administrative