it possible for the Internet to be accessed via mobile phones. Parental control over the use of mobile phones by young people is much more difficult, if not impossible. This means that the industry itself must take a little more responsibility and it is strongly encouraged to offer effective technological solutions to all users. III. Aim of the new proposal for a recommendation 1. Minors The recommendation invites the Member States, the industry and the parties concerned, together with the Commission, to take measures to improve the protection of minors and human dignity in the broadcasting and Internet services sectors. 2. Human dignity The aim of the recommendation is to ensure a level of protection of minors and human dignity that is effective and equal for all Member States and also to combat all kinds of discrimination through the existence of national frameworks. It will also enable users to have full confidence in new technologies, making it possible to develop the competitiveness of the European audiovisual and information services industry. 3. Right of reply Previously dealt with only in the context of the television without frontiers directive, the right of reply needs to be adapted to developments in communications media. Ensuring that it is recognised in all medias is also a means of guaranteeing freedom of expression and this requires a particular legal framework. IV. Rapporteur’s proposals 1. Protection of minors To ensure the protection of minors in the utilisation of new information technologies, there are three areas in which responsibilities must be faced, namely by politicians, by the industry itself and, lastly and most importantly, by parents. - Politicians have a responsibility because it is up to governments and ministers for education to include in their education syllabuses specific Internet education programmes aimed at children from an early age, teachers and also parents. For example, two or three training sessions in schools could be open to parents. Public information campaigns are also needed to alert public opinion to the dangers posed by the Internet and the risk of criminal penalties. Specific information programmes could be aimed at targeted groups such as schools and parents’ associations. Hotlines enabling complaints to be lodged should become widespread in all Member States and their powers could be extended to include the authority to report harmful sites which, even if it relies on subjective judgements, would make it possible to identify such sites so that legal proceedings against the authors could be brought in the future. In addition, the Commission should encourage the establishment of a European toll-free number through which information could be obtained on existing filter methods and also making it possible to offset the absence of telephone hotlines in some Member States. Lastly, the creation of a top level domain name (.KID) (like .com or .org sites) with content reserved for children, would provide a secure Internet area regularly monitored by an independent authority. - The industry has a responsibility because the existence of charters, codes of conduct, and quality initiatives is not enough. It is high time that hosts provided easy-to-use parental