News Alert : 22-10-2004 Brussels, 22 October 2004 The Week Ahead 25 - 31 October 2004 Strasbourg Vote on approval of European Commission. After hearing Commission President-elect José Manuel Barroso present his team and its programme to Parliament, MEPs will vote on whether to approve the Commission as a whole, thereby allowing it to take office on 1 November. (debate Tuesday, vote Wednesday) 2005 EU Budget. Parliament will vote on the first reading of the 2005 EU Budget. (debate Tuesday, vote Thursday) European Central Bank. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet will take part in the annual debate on the bank's activities. (Monday) Queen Beatrix. MEPs will welcome Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands to a formal sitting of Parliament. (Tuesday) Economic situation. MEPs will discuss the restructuring of the EU motor vehicle industry and the impact of rising oil prices on the EU economy. ( Monday) Sakharov prize. The Conference of Presidents will decide the winner of the 2004 Sakharov Prize. (Thursday) Civil Liberties. The Committee on Civil Liberties will be vote on the use of biometric identifiers on visas, residence permits and passports (Monday) Constitutional treaty. President Josep Borrell will represent the European Parliament at the signing ceremony in Rome for the constitutional treaty, along with other MEPs. (Friday) N.B. MEPs will be spending the week of 1 to 5 November in their constituencies before returning to Brussels for political group meetings in the week 8 to 12 November. The next edition of News Alert will be published on 12 November. STRASBOURG PLENARY SESSION 25 - 28 October 2004 Monday 25 October 5-8pm - Opening of plenary session and order of business - Report by Alain LIPIETZ (Greens/EFA, FR) on the 2003 Annual Report of the European Central Bank - Jean-Claude TRICHET, ECB President, will take part in the debate - Commission statement on restructuring of the motor vehicle sector - Commission statement on the impact of the increase in oil prices on the European economy, agriculture and fisheries Tuesday 26 October 9am-12 noon, 3-7.30pm 9am – 12 noon - Votes on requests for urgent procedure: . European Agency for Reconstruction . Economic development of the Turkish Cypriot community . Bosnia-Herzegovina: macro-financial assistance . Serbia and Montenegro: macro-financial assistance - Statement by José Manuel BARROSO, President-elect of the Commission: presentation by Mr Barroso of the College of Commissioners and their programme (vote on Wednesday) 12 noon-12.30pm - Formal sitting - Address by Her Majesty Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands 12.30pm - Votes (Rule 43.1): ***I . Report by Giuseppe GARGANI (EPP-ED, IT) on water pollution: dangerous substances discharged in the aquatic environment * . Report by Giuseppe GARGANI (EPP-ED, IT) on bivalve molluscs: minimum measures for the control of diseases * . Nine reports by Elmar BROK (EPP-ED, DE) on the Cooperation Agreements between the EC and Russia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Armenia, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and the Ukraine - Vote (Rule 131): ***I . Report by Luisa MORGANTINI (GUE/NGL, IT) on Cooperation EC/Asian and Latin America countries: aid to uprooted people - Other votes 3-6pm - Joint debate - 2005 budget procedure .