appropriate request a Member does not fulfil his obligation to submit a declaration pursuant to (a) and (b), the President shall remind him once again to submit the declaration within two months. If the declaration has not been submitted within the time limit, the name of the Member together with an indication of the infringement shall be published in the minutes of the first day of each part-session after expiry of the time limit. If the Member continues to refuse to submit the declaration after the infringement has been published the President shall take action in accordance with Rule 147 to suspend the Member concerned. Chairmen of groupings of Members, both intergroups and other unofficial groupings of Members, shall be required to declare any support, whether in cash or kind (e.g. secretarial assistance), which if offered to Members as individuals would have to be declared under this article. The Quaestors shall be responsible for keeping a register and drawing up detailed rules for the declaration of outside support by such groupings. Article 3 The register shall be open to the public for inspection. The register may be open to the public for inspection electronically. Article 4 Pending the introduction of a statute for Members of the European Parliament to replace the various national rules, Members shall be subject to the obligations imposed on them by the legislation of the Member State in which they are elected as regards the declaration of assets. ANNEX II Conduct of Question Time under Rule 109 A. Guidelines 1. Questions shall be admissible only where they - are concise and are drafted so as to permit a brief answer to be given; - fall within the competence and sphere of responsibility of the Commission and the Council and are of general interest; - do not require extensive prior study or research by the institution concerned; - are clearly worded and relate to a specific matter; - do not contain assertions or opinions; - do not relate to strictly personal matters; - are not aimed at procuring documents or statistical information; - are interrogatory in form. 2. A question shall be inadmissible if the agenda already provides for the subject to be discussed with the participation of the institution concerned. 3. A question shall be inadmissible if an identical or similar question has been put down and answered during the preceding three months unless there are new developments or the author is seeking further information. In the first case a copy of the question and the answer shall be given to the author. Supplementary questions 4. Each Member may follow up the reply with a supplementary question to any question. He may put in all two supplementary questions. 5. Supplementary questions shall be subject to the rules of admissibility laid down in these Guidelines. 6. The President shall rule on the admissibility of supplementary questions and shall limit their number so that each Member who has put down a question may receive an answer to it. The President shall not be obliged to declare a supplementary question admissible,