retain ownership or control of airports, airport managing bodies or air carriers shall ensure effective structural separation of the regulatory function from activities associated with ownership or control. Member States shall ensure that the independent supervisory authority exercises its powers impartially and transparently. 4. Member States shall notify to the Commission the name and address of the independent supervisory authority, its assigned tasks and responsibilities, and the measures taken to ensure compliance with paragraph 3. 5. Member States shall ensure, in respect of disagreements with regard to security charges, that measures are taken to: (a) establish a procedure for resolving disagreements between the competent body and the airport users; (b) determine the conditions under which a disagreement may be submitted to the independent supervisory authority and in particular provide for the dismissal by the authority of complaints which it deems are not properly justified or adequately documented; and (c) determine the criteria against which disagreements will be assessed for resolution. These procedures, conditions and criteria shall be non-discriminatory, transparent and objective. 6. The independent supervisory authority shall publish an annual report concerning its activities. 7. When a Member State applies, in accordance with its national law, a regulatory or legislative procedure to determine and approve the structure or level of security charges at national level, the national authorities responsible for examining the validity of security charges shall perform the tasks of the independent supervisory authority set out in paragraphs 1 to 6. Article 11 Report and revision 1. The Commission shall not later than ... * Four years after the entry into force of this Directive. submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the operation of this Directive as well as, where appropriate, any suitable proposal. 2. The Member States and the Commission shall co-operate in the application of this Directive, particularly as regards the collection of information for the report mentioned in paragraph 1. 3. The Commission shall not later than ... ** Two years after the entry into force of this Directive. * submit a report on the funding of aviation security, examining the evolution of aviation security costs and the methods for funding aviation security. Article 12 Transposition 1. Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before ... * Two years after the entry into force of this Directive. . They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those provisions and a correlation table between those provisions and this Directive. When Member States adopt those provisions, they shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on the occasion of their official publication. Member States shall determine how such reference is to be made. 2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. 3. A Member State shall not be required to comply with paragraphs 1 and 2, in so far as no security charges are levied at any