following the conciliation procedure can be summarised as follows: Protection of groundwater against deterioration One of Parliament’s priorities was to make the protection of groundwater against deterioration one of the objectives of the directive. Its delegation managed to secure the incorporation of the phrase ‘protection against deterioration’ in the title of the directive and among its objectives and the inclusion of corresponding references in the first recital and in Article 5(2), which deals with upward trends and trend reversal. The idea of precautionary action and, by extension, that of a ban on deterioration was incorporated into Article 6(1)(b), so that in the event of indirect discharges as well deterioration, and, in connection with that, augmentation, can be prevented. As a result of the adoption of Parliament’s compromise proposal concerning Amendment 42, the directive continues to stipulate that the late implementation of trend-reversal measures must not lead to delays in achieving the environmental objectives laid down in the directive. However, as part of the overall agreement Parliament’s delegation was forced to withdraw Amendment 12 (definition of ‘deterioration’). Nitrates As regards the relationship between the Groundwater Directive and the Nitrates Directive (Directive 91/676/EEC), Parliament’s delegation secured agreement that the measures to achieve quality standards in respect of nitrates should be consistent with the Water Framework Directive, taken in conjunction with the new Groundwater Directive (Amendment 36). In return, the delegation had to accept a compromise concerning Amendment 43, which links trend-reversal measures to the conditions laid down in the Water Framework and Nitrate Directives. In this connection, the new Article 11 is significant, providing for an evaluation of this directive in relation to other relevant environmental legislation, i.e. also the Nitrates Directive. Revision clause In the face of pressure from Parliament’s delegation, the Council was ultimately forced to accept a provision stipulating that the Commission should periodically review the Groundwater Directive, albeit only every six years, and not every five years, as called for by Parliament. Comitology and codecision The EP delegation also secured a broader role for Parliament in future decision-making. For example, should the Commission review give rise to a finding that certain aspects of the Groundwater Directive require revision, that revision must be carried out under the new comitology procedure (regulatory committee with scrutiny). Parliament will thus enjoy greater powers than under the older procedure - for example, it can object to changes to the lists of pollutants and indicators. A legislative codecision procedure is then required if individual substances are to be deleted from the lists. Inputs of hazardous substances The EP delegation also secured agreement on more stringent rules concerning measures to prevent or restrict inputs of hazardous substances into groundwater: it is now a requirement, and not merely an objective, that Member States should take all necessary measures in this area. Compensation payments for farmers Losses of income suffered by farmers as a result of restrictions on farming practices designed to protect groundwater can be offset under the regulation on rural development (Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005). Other points The compromise achieved makes the text of the directive clearer: