pollution by deploying additional firefighting resources to this region. According to Russian Government departments, no excessive radiation levels caused by wildfires in Russia have been registered. The EU’s response to the crisis was effective. During the crisis, the EU’s structures, in particular the Commission’s Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC), the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), and the Health Security Committee (HSC) were fully operational. Commissioner Georgieva spoke to General Shoigu from EMERCOM during the crisis and expressed the Commission’s solidarity with the Russian Federation, stating that the Commission stands ready to help. The Commission, via the MIC, has taken a pro-active role in supporting coordination between numerous EU Member States providing assistance to Russia. The MIC provided information to the Participating States of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The Commission also organised a coordination meeting with Member States in early August. The 2004 Agreement between the MIC and EMERCOM setting out modalities for cooperation in civil disasters would have permitted further EU wide action in case of a request by the Russian authorities. The MIC offered to send a team of forest fires experts, but Russia only accepted EU Member States’ bilateral offers of assistance. The Russian Federation received assistance from several EU Member States and other countries. The following Member States have provided assistance to Russia for the response to the fires: Italy, Bulgaria, Poland, France, Germany, Estonia, Latvia, Finland, and Lithuania. More countries have offered their support. Participating States of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism kept the MIC permanently informed of their offers and activities, thus ensuring a coordinated European response. Furthermore the EU financially supported relief action through the International Federation of the Red Cross’s Disaster Relief Emergency Fund ( DREF) which delivered immediate assistance to Russian families via the Russian Red Cross. The EU replenished the DREF which provided 1 700 families in Voronezh, Belgorod, Ivanovo, Kirov, Nizhni Novgorod and Ivanovo regions with immediate humanitarian assiatance in the form of basic food and non-food items.