aimed at concluding the Association Agreement; F. whereas the Association Agreement between the EU and Syria is still to be signed and ratified; whereas respect for human rights is an essential part of this Agreement; G. whereas the Emergency Law in force since 1963 is effectively limiting citizens in the exercise of their civil and political rights; whereas in this case Muhannad Al Hassani and other human rights lawyers were already prevented from travelling abroad to attend workshops on international human rights; 1. Calls on the Syrian authorities to immediately release Muhannad Al Hassani and to guarantee his physical and psychological integrity, in conformity with the provisions of the UN Declaration on Human Rights Defenders, adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 9 December 1998; 2. Expresses its deepest concern at the significant repression human rights defenders in Syria still have to face and the absence of progress by the Syrian authorities concerning respect for human rights; 3. Calls on the Syrian Government to reconsider the cases of political prisoners and to release all prisoners of conscience, human rights defenders and peace activists; 4. Calls on the Syrian authorities to restore and ensure the transparent functioning of the judicial system, with special regard to the Supreme State Security Court; 5. Urges the Syrian authorities to strictly comply with the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment and other pertinent international documents and standards to ensure that detainees in Syrian prisons : 1) are well treated and not subjected to torture or other ill-treatment, 2) are given prompt, regular and unrestricted access to their families, lawyers and doctors; 6. Is confident that Syria, which could play an important role in achieving peace in the region, will improve and support human rights and freedom of expression in the country; 7. highlights the obligation to comply with Article 2 of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement - which stipulates that respect for democratic principles and fundamental rights inspire the domestic and external policies of the parties and constitute and essential element of the agreement; 8. Calls for the abrogation of the state of emergency in Syria, established more than 40 years ago; 9. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, and the Government and Parliament of the Syrian Arab Republic.