Member State other than their own. Amendment 3 RECITAL 2 A (new) (2a) The latter prohibition goes beyond what is necessary to ensure that citizens of the Union are not discriminated against on grounds of nationality when exercising their right to stand as a candidate. Member States should have the discretion to decide whether to allow candidacies in more than one State for the same election, and political parties should be left to decide whether to encourage such multiple candidacies. Justification See corresponding amendment 15. Amendment 4 RECITAL 2 B (new) (2b) The Act of 20 September 1976 concerning the election of members of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage 1 provides that, where the primary law is silent, electoral law shall be subject to national provisions; moreover, the primary law expressly prohibits double voting but is silent on the issue of dual candidacy. –––––– 1 OJ L 278, 8.10.1976, p. 5. Act as last amended by Council Decision 2002/772/EC, Euratom (OJ L 283, 21.10.2002, p. 1.). Justification See corresponding amendment 15. Amendment 5 RECITAL 3 A (new) (3a) The mandatory recognition, by the Member State of residence, of a disqualification with regard to the right to stand as a candidate is an additional condition for the exercise of that right, which is not covered by either the letter or the spirit of Article 19(2) of the EC Treaty. The Member State of residence should be entitled to establish whether an individual would have been deprived of the right to stand for election under the national law of that State under the same circumstances and in the same manner, and to decide on its own behalf whether to recognise the disqualification applicable in the home State. Justification See corresponding amendment 16. Amendment 6 RECITAL 3 B (new) (3b) The Council should not go beyond the intention expressed in the primary law provisions, and the 'detailed arrangements' prescribed in Directive 93/109/EC under the terms of Article 19(2) of the EC Treaty should be limited to what is strictly necessary in order to give effect to the two intended rights, i.e. the right to vote and to stand for election in a State other than one's own, and should not introduce conditions for the exercise of those rights other than, or in addition to, those provided for in the law of the State of residence. Justification See corresponding amendments 15, 16 and 19. Amendment 7 RECITAL 5 (5) The requirement for candidates to submit this attestation should accordingly be abolished and replaced by an item to that effect in the formal declaration that candidates must produce. (5) The requirement for candidates to submit this attestation should accordingly be abolished and replaced by an optional item to that effect in the formal declaration that candidates must produce. Justification See corresponding amendments 21 and 22. Amendment 8 RECITAL 6 (6) Host Member States should be placed under an obligation to notify the home Member State of this declaration in order to ensure that the Community candidate was not actually deprived of this right in the