applicable to the transmission of notifications and supplementary information and the specific rules applicable to information transmitted by business operators. The measures for implementing Article 49 shall be adopted by the Commission, after discussion with the Authority, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 57(2). These measures shall specify, in particular, the specific conditions and procedures applicable to the transmission of notifications and supplementary information and the specific rules applicable to information transmitted by business operators. Ultimate responsibility shall rest with the Commission. Amendment 170 Article 51, paragraph 1, subparagraph 1 1. Information available to the members of the network relating to risk to human health posed by food and feed shall in general be available to the public. In general the public shall have access to information on product identification, the nature of the risk and the measure taken. 1. Information available to the members of the network relating to risk to human health posed by food and feed products shall be available to the public in accordance with the requirements of transparency . The public shall have access to information on product identification, the nature of the risk and the measure taken. Amendment 172 Article 52, paragraph 1 1. The Commission shall draw up, in close cooperation with the Authority and where appropriate with the Member States, a general plan for crisis management in the field of the safety of food and feed (hereinafter referred to as "the general plan'). 1. The Commission shall draw up, in close cooperation with the Authority, the European Parliament and the Member States, a general plan for crisis management in the field of the safety of food and feed products (hereinafter referred to as "the general plan'). Amendment 173 Article 53, paragraph 1 1. Without prejudice to its role of ensuring the application of Community law, where the Commission identifies a situation involving a serious direct or indirect risk to human health deriving from food and feed, and the risk cannot be prevented, eliminated or reduced by existing provisions or cannot adequately be managed solely by way of the application of Articles 55 and 56, it shall immediately notify the Member States and the Authority. 1. Without prejudice to its role of ensuring the application of Community law, where the Commission identifies a situation involving a direct or indirect risk to human health deriving from food and feed products , and the risk cannot be prevented, eliminated or reduced by existing provisions or cannot adequately be managed solely by way of the application of Articles 55 and 56, it shall immediately notify the Member States , the European Parliament and the Authority. Amendment 174 Article 53, paragraph 2 2. The Commission shall set up a crisis unit immediately, in which the Authority shall be involved and provide scientific and technical assistance if necessary . 2. The Commission shall set up a permanent crisis unit immediately, in which the Authority shall be involved. The Authority shall provide scientific and technical assistance on the various management options available to the unit in the particular