ships is postponed to September I. Wednesday 5 July On Wednesday evening, there will be a joint debate on comitology. Richard CORBETT (PES, UK) has two reports: Comitology: exercise of implementing powers conferred to the Commission and Implementing powers conferred on the Commission, Comitology. Interinstitutional agreement. The report by Diana WALLIS (ALDE, UK) on accession to the Hague Conference on Private International Law is postponed. At 3pm, there will be Commission and Council statements, with a resolution, on the surveillance of bank data transfers by the American secret services. The debate on "AIDS - Time to deliver" will take place on Wednesday evening. Also on Wednesday evening there will be a joint debate on visa policy towards the Western Balkan countries . Thursday 6 July The oral question on the counterfeiting of medicinal products is postponed to September. Instead, there will be a debate on the results of the latest WTO meetings and prospects for the future. There will also be an oral question to the Commission on the Indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from Third countries ('origin marking'). 20060620BRI09184 -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 BRI-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 BRI-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20060620BRI09184 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20060620BRI09184 ITEM-001-EN DOC XML V0//EN European Council Presentation of the Finnish Presidency 2006-06-30 - 10:47 Finnish Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen will present the priorities of the Finnish Presidency to the European Parliament in Strasbourg on Wednesday 5 July 2006. Following Austria, Finland’s six-month Presidency of the Council of the European Union will begin on 1 July 2006. Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen set out the priorities for Finland's EU Presidency in his speech to the Finnish Parliament on 21 June 2006. In his speech, he said: " The first priority is a general one, the future of the European Union. This priority covers the Constitutional Treaty as well as the enlargement discussion in general . Last Friday, the European Council decided, in line with Finland’s objectives, that with regard to the Constitutional Treaty it is time to move on from mere reflection to delivering concrete results and implementing projects. This twin-track approach is right: We will improve the way the Union functions on the basis of the existing Treaties at the same time as we bring the mere passive reflection period to a close and start discussing how to proceed with it. Finland will start work on these tasks during its Presidency. The second crucial area during Finland’s Presidency is the competitiveness of the Union and its Member States as well as their performance in global competition . For Finland, this is a national as well as a Presidency mission. In both cases, it comes right at the top of the agenda. Although the situation is different for each Member State, I believe that, on the basis of our own experiences, Finland has something to offer the Union. The third priority during Finland’s Presidency will be external relations . There is a link to the economy here, since the Union’s economic strength forms the basis