afford a higher level of protection for workers than will be achieved by this Directive. Harmonisation at Community level must not result in workers in certain Member States being given health protection of a lower standard than was the case before harmonisation. Consequently, more stringent legislative provisions should not be affected by this Directive. Amendment 17 Article 3, 1st paragraph (b) (new) Member States shall ensure that decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products shall not contain substances that have been classified as carcinogens, mutagens, or toxic to reproduction under Directive 67/548/EEC. Justification This builds on the substitution clause in Article 5, paragraph 6 of Directive 1999/13/EC on the limitation of emissions of VOCs due to the use of organic solvents in certain activities and installations. Given the direct exposure when using paints, CMR substances should not be used in them. Amendment 18 Article 3, 1st paragraph (c) (new) Should a Member State have adopted stricter measures than those required by the Directive, it shall, on entry into force of the Directive, inform the Commission of the nature of these provisions as well as the grounds for maintaining them. Justification Member States should have an unquestioned right to maintain or introduce higher standards than those fixed in this Directive, provided those measures relate to one of the exemptions specifically allowed in the Treaty and do not represent a deliberate and unjustified restraint of trade. By obliging Member States to inform the Commission of any measures which go beyond the requirements of this Directive, this amendment seeks to reconcile a high standard of workers' protection with the smooth functioning of the internal market. Amendment 19 Article 3, 1st paragraph (d) (new) Certain old and treasured vehicles may require the use of authentic repair materials which may not in all cases meet the VOC control values set in Annex II. Small quantities of such products may be placed on the market by specialist suppliers and special interest clubs or groups. This exemption shall not represent more than 0.5 % of total sales in the vehicle refinishing sector. Justification Some types of vehicles in preservation need to be finished in the original coatings to maintain authenticity or to avoid chemical reactions with paints when effecting a repair. Amendment 20 Article 4 Member States shall ensure that the products set out in Annex I carry a label when they are placed on the market. The indications required on the label shall be determined in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12. Member States shall ensure that the products set out in Annex I carry a label when they are placed on the market, indicating the potential risks of exposure to solvents and how to use the products wisely, taking into account the distinction between products for indoor and outdoor use. The label shall provide at least the following information for the product in ready to use format: - the quantity of solvent per volume of product in grams/litre of organic solvent for any solvent pr e sent above 2 grams/litre, - a graded