set out in Rule 49(1) and Rule 50 are fulfilled, the Conference of Presidents may, if it is satisfied that the matter is of major importance, decide that a procedure with joint meetings of committees and a joint vote is to be applied. In that event, the rapporteurs concerned shall draw up a single draft report, which shall be examined and voted on by the committees involved at joint meetings held under the joint chairmanship of the committee chairs concerned. The committees involved may set up inter-committee working groups to prepare the joint meetings and votes. Early in 2010 the Conference of Committee Chairs considered draft ‘guidelines for cooperation between committees under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure’. Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety (ENVI), and Ms Bowles, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (ECON), made comments on and proposed changes to that text. Following that correspondence, the Chair of the Conference of Committee Chairs, Mr Lehne, referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs three questions concerning the application of Rule 51, which can be summarised as follows: 1) In the context of an ordinary legislative procedure, does the Rule 51 procedure apply throughout the legislative procedure, or only at first reading? 2) Can the rights attaching to the status of the ‘committee responsible’, such as the right to table amendments or a motion for rejection in plenary, be exercised solely by the committees concerned acting jointly? 3) Must the committees take a joint decision as to how Parliament uses its rights with regard to draft delegated acts or implementing measures which are themselves based on a legislative act adopted in turn under the Rule 51 procedure? Mr Lehne has also suggested annexing to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Rule 215(d), guidelines to facilitate the implementation of this new procedure. Mr Leinen has also referred to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a proposal that the situation should be clarified by means of a revision of the Rules of Procedure. He emphasised in particular the practical impossibility of involving two or more committees at second reading under codecision or ‘comitology’. He argued that a whole series of rules [43(1), 63(1), 87 and 88(2) and (3), and particularly 188] referred to only one committee, which demonstrated that there was no room for a second in such a procedure. II. PROPOSED AMENDMENT OF THE RULES OF PROCEDURE Your rapporteur takes the view that in this particular case an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure or guidelines to facilitate their implementation will not suffice. This important procedural matter must be settled by means of a vote in plenary by the majority applicable in cases of this kind, a majority of Parliament's Members, particularly as the provision as currently worded can be interpreted in two ways. The proposed new version of Rule 51 essentially seeks to achieve three objectives: 1) Make the provision more readily understandable and therefore easier to use. 2) Lay down new conditions governing the application of the