Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (4 October 2005) As a general remark, the Commission would like to recall that the EC legislation in the banking sector does not include provisions concerning the level of interest rates applied by credit institutions to their customers (enterprises or consumers) or the concept of usury. Therefore, Member States are free to introduce or not in their legislation rules concerning interest rates, including usurious rates. In this context, the exclusive competence to assess infringements to these national provisions lies with the national competent authorities. Accordingly, the same authorities are also exclusively competent to determine how to redress illegal practices and compensate damages. The Commission takes note of the complaint concerning the level of interest rates in the south of Italy and regrets that the followed practice may have made more difficult the access to credit and damaged the local economy. However, as the Honourable Member confirms, the specific case is currently under the examination of the national criminal courts that will assess whether the national law on usurious rates has been breached. In this context, the Commission has no competence to restore legality and cannot interfere with the due course of the national justice. The written question suggests that it is general practice of the Italian credit institutions to apply extremely high interest rates to southern Italy enterprises for loans while northern Italy enterprises benefit from very favourable lending conditions. Access to credit is indeed a key issue for the development of economic activities and the Commission agrees that lending conditions can determine credit accessibility. However, specific and objective circumstances, such as the sector of activity of the enterprise, its size, the size and extent of the activity, the context where the activity is carried out and many other factors, could influence the risk for the lending bank and may sometimes justify high interest rates or differences between regions. Each credit institution has the freedom to define its own commercial policy on lending on the basis of its assessment of the market and the risks that go with it. On the basis of the information provided, the Commission cannot express an opinion on the specific Italian situation or judge credit institutions’ practice. The fact that six major Italian banks are involved in an investigation on usurious rates in the south of Italy is not sufficient to draw conclusions on a general practice and consider their policy as representative of the whole banking system. However, should the described practice be general, for the reasons highlighted in the first paragraph of the answer, the national authorities are in the best position to assess why this practice is in place and whether it can be justified. Civil and criminal courts or Banca d’Italia as banking supervisor and sectoral antitrust authority can investigate all the possible implications of a doubtful practice on the basis of their respective competences. In order to answer the third question, the Commission would like to inform the Honourable Member that it carried out an overview on interest rates and usurious rates