Answer given by High representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (1 March 2011) The High Representative shares the Honourable Member’s concern about the situation of migrants transiting from Central America and Mexico on their journey to the southern USA border. Being themselves countries of emigration, the countries of this area focus their migration policies on the situation of their nationals abroad, mainly in the USA. The precarious situation of migrants in Mexico, in particular, is also closely linked to the general security situation in the country and the fight against organised crime. The EU is examining these issues with its Latin American partners in the framework of the structured dialogue on migration, which was set up in 2009 as a part of the EU‑LAC relations. Taking place at regular meetings, this dialogue aims at improving the exchange of information and reinforcing cooperation between EU‑LAC countries. The EU‑LAC Action Plan adopted at the Madrid Summit last May includes a specific chapter on migration, defining priority objectives that include prevention and fighting against smuggling of migrants, and assistance to victims. Furthermore, the Commission devotes a specific cooperation line from the EU budget to migration issues, through which it has been financing EUR 8 million worth of projects in Latin America since 2007. One of the main objectives that the EU is pursuing through all these instruments is the design and implementation of appropriate migration policies by its Latin American partners, both as regards emigration and the situation of migrants in these countries. The High Representative is well aware of the November 2010 judgment by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, which condemned the State of Panama for imprisoning an Ecuadorian migrant during two years on the grounds that he was illegal and for the bad treatment inflicted on him. As regards the case of 72 murdered migrants in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas, progress of the ongoing investigations is being followed. The initiatives that have been launched in the field of migration both at national and at regional level, such as Mexico’s ‘integral strategy for the prevention and combat against the kidnapping of migrants’ or a new migration law soon to be presented which would guarantee and protect the human rights of all migrants are also being followed. At regional level, the Central American countries have all stressed that cooperation is crucial; following the Tamaulipas massacre and other kidnappings of Central American migrants, the Mexican and Honduran Governments have created a bi-national migration group to address the problems of migration in all its aspects. As the Honourable Member may know, the EU Delegation in Mexico organises in situ visits of the EU embassies’ political counsellors to accompany the work of human rights defenders, especially ones that are being threatened or attacked. In this framework, the Delegation will organise in the coming weeks a visit to the State of Oaxaca — where another massive kidnapping of migrants took place in December — together with local human rights defenders engaged in migrants' protection. The High Representative fully agrees with the Honourable Member’s view that structural