DE) said that the recent elections in Togo were neither free nor fair. He regretted the anti-German incidents that had occurred in the country and questioned the legitimacy of the current president. Democracy, he said, could not be built overnight and he warned that the situation could deteriorate in Togo. Kwame OSEI-PREMPEH (MP, Ghana) said that at least there was peace in Togo and the people of Togo should be encouraged and not criticised. He also expressed cautious optimism for the developments in Mauritania. Mohamed Abdellahi Ould GUELAYE (Mauritania) recalled that the government of Mauritania had not changed for over 20 years but on 3 August there had been a peaceful transition of power. This had been based on three issues: implementing the conditions conducive to democracy, agreement that the transition government would not stay in power for more than two years and thirdly the respect of all treaties and international protocols that Mauritania had signed. He also explained that civil society had been fully involved in the transition process. Mauritania, he said, has set up ” national constitution d ays” aiming to reform the constitution and there had been agreement to reduce the term of office of the President as well as on an electoral timetable. Johan VAN HECKE (ALDE, BE) said there had been positive developments in Liberia and Guinea Bissau. The situation in the Côte d’Ivoire was more problematic. For Liberia, democratic elections were only the first step. He called for the restoration of the police and army. He also condemned the transfer of children from Liberia to Côte d’Ivoire to be used as soldiers. He called for the UN to remain fully engaged. As for Guinea Bissau, he recalled that he was the chief observer for the EU’s mission on elections observation. He said the elections had been largely peaceful. However, he stated that Guinea Bissau had very few economic resources and that there had been no electricity in the country for the last three years. On Niger he encouraged the international community to continue to support the nation despite the fact that the TV cameras had now departed. The representative from MALI said that in the past Europe had condemned Mali for rebellions in the north of the country. But only when Europe changed its attitude to support the country did Mali begin to reform. He stressed that countries such as Togo and Mauritania needed support rather than criticism and called for a change of attitude in Europe. He also stressed the importance of the forthcoming WTO ministerial meeting in Hong Kong in relation to cutting EU and US subsidies. Marie-Arlette CARLOTTI (PES, FR) said that the situation in Liberia was a result of the 2003 Accra accords. She recalled that a European Parliament mission had been sent to observe the elections. She called on George WEAH to live up to his sporting reputation. Good governance, access to basic service and disarmament should be the priorities of the new president. On Mauritania, the situation had improved given the recent steps towards democratisation. On Togo, she said that