the breach of the obligation resting on the State and the damage sustained by the injured party. According to ES 3, " the greatest obstacle [for action in damages based on Francovich to succeed] would be to determine causation with any loss suffered by specific policyholders and the calculation of damages " (ES 3 Page 108. ). c.) Action for damages under Articles 235 and 288(2) ECT Article 288(2) ECT Art. 235: “The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in disputes relating to compensation for damage provided for in the second paragraph of Article 288.” provides that in the case of non-contractual liability, the Community shall, in accordance with the general principles common to the laws of the Member States, make good any damage caused by its institutions or by its servants in the performance of their duties. Where citizens, firms or Member States sustain damage by reason of fault committed by European Community staff, legal action for damages may be filed at the Court of First Instance (individuals and firms) or at the Court of Justice (Member States). This liability is not specified and it has been a matter for the Court to interpret its ambit. Accordingly, the following conditions must be satisfied before an award of damages can be made: · There must be an unlawful act by a Community institution or by a member of its staff in the exercise of his functions; · Actual harm must have been suffered; · There must be a causal link between the act of the Community Institution and the damage sustained. The Community cannot incur liability unless the institution concerned has manifestly and gravely disregarded the limits to the exercise of its powers. See joined Cases C-104/89 and C-37/90 and Case C-352/98). A finding of an error which, in analogous circumstances, an administrative authority exercising ordinary care and diligence would not have committed will support the conclusion that the conduct of the Community institution was unlawful in such a way as to render the Community liable. See Case T-178/98. Aggrieved ELAS policyholders could lodge an action for damages under Article 288 based on the argument that the Commission failed to properly fulfil the functions and duties conferred to it by the Treaty in relation to monitoring the application of the EL law (i.e. the Third Life Directive in the UK). However, such action appears to constitute only a theoretical possibility, since the committee has found no conclusive evidence during this inquiry that that was the case (see part II of the Report). However, even if the Commission had failed in its duty, it would be questionable whether this failure would satisfy the condition of unlawfulness referred to above. Moreover, one may take the view that the correct application of EU legislation is primarily the responsibility of Member States. If the Member State is to be considered primarily liable so that it would be reasonable for it rather than the Community to pay compensation, then the applicant would have to pursue his remedy in the national courts before the ECJ can further entertain