required shall, where appropriate, be revised in the light of the progress of deliberations on the basic act. 3. In order to prevent risk of fraud or irregularity, the Commission shall record in the financial statement any information regarding existing and planned fraud prevention and protection measures. CHAPTER 8 Principle of transparency Article 29 1. The budget shall be established and implemented and the accounts presented in compliance with the principle of transparency. 2. The President of the European Parliament shall have the budget and amending budgets, as finally adopted, published in the Official Journal of the European Communities . The budget shall be published within two months following the date on which the budget is declared finally adopted. The consolidated financial statements shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities . The financial management reports drawn up by each institution shall also be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities . Article 30 1. Information on borrowing-and-lending operations contracted by the Communities for third parties shall appear in an Annex to the budget. 2. Information on the operations of the Guarantee Fund for external actions shall appear in the financial statements. TITLE III ESTABLISHMENT AND STRUCTURE OF THE BUDGET CHAPTER 1 Establishment of the budget Article 31 The European Parliament, the Council, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the European Data-Protection Supervisor shall draw up an estimate of their revenue and expenditure, which they shall send to the Commission before 1 July each year. These estimates shall also be sent by these institutions to the budgetary authority for information by no later than 1 July each year. The Commission shall draw up its own estimates, which it shall also send to the budgetary authority by the same date. In preparing its own estimates the Commission shall use the information referred to in Article 32. Article 32 Each body referred to in Article 185 shall, in accordance with the instrument establishing it, send to the Commission by 1 April each year an estimate of its revenue and expenditure, including the establishment plan, and its work programme. The Commission shall forward these documents to the budgetary authority for information, except in the case provided for in point (3)(d) of Article 46(1). Article 33 1. The Commission shall place a preliminary draft budget before the Council by 1 September each year at the latest. It shall at the same time transmit the preliminary draft budget to the European Parliament. The preliminary draft budget shall contain a summary general statement of the expenditure and revenue of the Communities and consolidate the estimates referred to in Article 31. 2. The Commission shall attach to the preliminary draft budget: a) an analysis of financial management in the previous year and the commitments outstanding; b) where appropriate, an opinion on the estimates of the other institutions which may contain different estimates, accompanied by the reasons therefor; c) any working paper it considers useful in