Agencies' founding regulations are adopted under co-decision on a multi-annual basis, while they receive subsidies decided on an annual basis in the context of the budgetary procedure. Under tight ceilings and in the context of ABB (policy area approach), the specialised committees will have to indicate their priorities between the funding of operational programmes and the financing of the agencies. 36. The rapporteur welcomes the proposal finally made by the Commission for a tough policy on agencies and expects the provisions to be laid down before the 2007 budgetary procedure. He intends to develop his views on existing and future Agencies in a specific working document to be presented in the context of the annual meeting of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control with the Agency directors. 3. QUALITATIVE VALUE FOR MONEY 37. The December agreement of the European Council has clearly shown that the battle for resources has begun. Council figures would mean a decrease of resources available between 2007 - 2013 by over 15% as compared to what the Commission thought necessary in its original proposal. For the rapporteur it is absolutely necessary in this situation to start looking at the quality of European Union expenditure. Do we get value for money? 38. To the rapporteur, the beginning of the new financial perspective offers a significant opportunity for reassessment: if a programme is known not to be successful or is no longer a priority, why not remove it? At the same time, an open mind should be kept to introduce new programmes if they are needed for the EU to keep up with the pace of globalisation. 39. The rapporteur is of the opinion that a qualitative value for money should compensate the absence of quantity in budgetary means. The European Budget is financed by the European tax payers to fund activities which are expected to bring a European added value for the European citizens. In this sense, the rapporteur believes that the responsibility of qualitative and cost benefit aspects of the expenditure belongs to the Budgetary Authority. He considers that under a tight financial perspective with very little room for new actions, time has come to start looking at the quality of European expenditure and value for money. This will be the subject of the next working document WD3. 40. As already announced when he outlined his priorities for B’ 2007, the rapporteur is willing to ask for cost benefit analysis on certain programmes , in view to make a political evaluation of EU spending under certain areas. The aim will be to highlight the performance of these programmes or actions financed by the EU Budget on the basis of some criteria: - did the policy achieve the objectives set up by the Budgetary Authority ? - what is the impact assessment compared to the quantity of funding involved ? - what part of the funding has been dedicated to administrative expenditure and what part to operational expenditure ? - were human and financial resources efficiently used ? - what the European added value of