and GAD to follow up issues that arose in the course of their regulation of the Society, and to mount an effective challenge of the management . (par. 240.11). Lord Penrose concluded by stating that "the picture that emerges is of a Society that had deep-seated financial and management problems that pre-dated the emergence of the GAR problem ... The judgement of the House of Lords in Hyman precipitated a crisis, but was not solely responsible for it. The lessons that emerge are broad, and relate to the responsibilities of all main parties concerned, directors, management, auditors and regulators ." (WS2) IV. Other Oral and Written Evidence considered by the Committee In order better to assess the life insurance regulators' compliance with the Community law provisions in the UK and the other Member States concerned, the Committee of Inquiry invited a number of experts and witnesses to present the committee with oral and written evidence on the Equitable Life case We recall the abbreviations used in this report for evidence submitted to the Committee : H # = oral evidence given at EQUI Hearing; WS # = oral evidence given at EQUI Workshop; WE # = written evidence filed on EQUI website accessible to public; ES # = external study; WE-FILE # = written evidence not filed on website; WE-CONF # = confidential written evidence. . Witnesses invited included individual policyholders and representatives of policyholder associations, government representatives, senior officers of present and past life insurance regulators in the UK, Ireland and Germany, representatives of the Commission, actuaries and experts in life insurances, annuities and forensic accounting, as well as other experts or stakeholders, including the current management of Equitable Life. According to data provided by Mr. THOMSON, current Chief Executive of Equitable Life, in 2001 " roughly 1.5 million people had an interest in the Society's with-profits fund; this included about 8.000 with-profits policyholders in Ireland and about 4.000 with-profits policyholders in Germany . In addition there were approximately 6.500 international policies sold through the Society's Guernsey office to individuals resident throughout the world, some of whom will be in Europe "(WE47). Regarding Equitable Life's international policyholders, Mr. SEYMOUR (WE53) offered more precise data, stating that the Society had in the late 90s " 13.405 policyholders outside the UK , residing in 13 different EU Member States. In all, 12.425 policyholders in EU Member States (Ireland, Germany, Belgium, Austria, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden) and 980 in UK-dependencies (Channel Islands, Isle of Man, Gibraltar). " The evidence presented by other witnesses focused on a number of key issues which can be grouped as follows: 1. Negligence in prudential regulation and supervision Converging views were expressed by witnesses (petitioners, affected policyholders or representatives of policyholders' action groups) in highlighting a number of wide-ranging concerns and complaints against the UK insurance regulators, as well as regulators in other Member States concerned. On this specific issue, oral and written evidence considered by the Committee of Inquiry were submitted by Tom LAKE, John NEWMAN and Paul BRAITHWAITE on behalf of