of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct life assurance and amending Directives 79/267/EEC and 90/619/EEC (third life assurance Directive) (OJ L 311, 14.11.1997, p.34). (3LD). 2. Directives and Member States’ obligations: ECJ jurisprudence Under Article 249 of the EC Treaty, directives are binding as to the result to be achieved but leave to the national authorities the choice of form and methods for their implementation. In contrast to regulations, directives impose obligations of result and not obligations of conduct; they allow Member States flexibility in choosing the method of their transposition into national law, thus in theory facilitating the integration of Community norms into domestic law and respecting the various national legal traditions. This theoretical facility does indeed have some advantages in political terms: It is argued by some that directives provide for efficiency because they leave some discretion with regard to implementation and so are easier for Member States to agree upon. Much of EU law would not have been adopted if it had not been presented in the form of a directive. Directives have the advantage of being a very flexible instrument and Member States can incorporate them more easily into their diverse legal systems. This flexibility and the different forms and methods of transposition are compatible with Community law, according to the case law of the European Court of Justice. Moreover, the Court has even acknowledged that there may be exceptional cases where the adoption of specific legislative measures is not indispensable, for instance, when there is a “ clear and precise conformity ” between a directive and existing national legislation. See Case 29/84 Commission v Germany [1985] ECR 1661, paragraph 23. The freedom of choice on the methods and forms does not exempt Member States from the binding effects of a directive “ as to the results to be achieved ”. In addition, Member States are subject to the comprehensive loyalty clause of Article 10 TEC, which imposes upon them the duty to “ take all appropriate measures, whether general or particular, to ensure fulfilment of the obligations arising out of this Treaty or resulting from action taken by the institutions of the Community .” Moreover, legislation which has been adapted to EC directives may not subsequently be amended contrary to the objectives of those directives. In assessing the suitability and conformity of implementing measures, the Court places particular emphasis on the purpose of the directive. The crucial issue is whether the Member State in question has adopted all the necessary measures to ensure the full effectiveness of the directive in accordance with the objective which the latter pursues . See Case 14/83 von Colson and Kaman [1984] ECR 1891, paragraph 15. The Court stresses that Member States are under an obligation to ensure the full and effective application of a directive. To meet this obligation, it is not sufficient for a Member State merely to adopt the necessary transposing legislation. In other words, implementation is not, in the eyes of the Court, a one-off task of a purely legislative nature. The adoption of national measures