to that where they have a fully fledged really competent system The office by itself won't be enough, but it will be a help. One of the particular roles it has is to try and give a more standardised version of information about the country of origin of those seeking protection. So when member states are making decisions whether it's about those from Iraq, from Chechnya or other countries where we know that there are enormous divergences, people should feel they are being treated fairly and that they are not just treated on the base of politics of the state concerned. The European Asylum Support Office (EASO) will be established, rather symbolically, in Malta (a favoured destination for asylum seekers). Do you think this will influence its perspective, and maybe help shift the burden of care from small 'front line' EU Members? I think we have to be very careful that the fact that it is based in Malta does not mean that it becomes dominated by the situation in Malta. We know that Malta is under a lot of pressure and has mixed flows of people of whom some are asylum seekers and some are not. Certainly in Malta they have invested a lot into their own asylum system and they were very keen to have this office. In part it is a symbol to show to the people of Malta that the European Union really is in solidarity with them. Nevertheless, this is an asylum office for the whole of the European Union. You negotiated on the setting up of the EASO with EU Member States. Does the result correspond to Parliament's demands? In a negotiation I suppose no side ever gets entirely what it wants. Certainly there are some of the issues about the relationship with the Parliament where we would have liked a stronger role. On the other hand there is a big discussion about the role of other agencies and the European institutions. We would have liked the office to have more of a monitoring role rather than a support role. Member States wanted it to be called 'support office' for a particular reason. But at least we found that negotiating with the Swedish Presidency (of the EU) was a real negotiation. Draft report Jean Lambert EASO European Commission Richard Ashworth on simplifying the CAP British MEP Richard Ashworth Farmers facing new challenges EU farm budget still at 40% of total The Common Agricultural Policy is too bureaucratic and administrative burdens take "farmers away from the day-to-day job of managing livestock or farming the land" says British MEP Richard Ashworth (ECR). In the run up to CAP reform in 2013, simplification of rules and controls is a key issue for farmers who must "secure the food supply to 500 million European citizens at a reasonable cost” according to Mr Ashworth whose report on the issue is being put to the vote Tuesday. What’s the stake of the current debate on CAP? The CAP still accounts for 40% of the EU budget. When you refer to CAP though,