arrest of Aung San Suu Kyi for another year. Thus, while welcoming the renewal of EU targeted sanctions, the resolution argues that they have failed to achieve the desired impact and "calls therefore on the Council to analyse the weaknesses in the present sanctions system and to introduce further measures". All EU Member States are asked to apply rigorously the restrictive measures already agreed and to discuss measures for strengthening the EU Common Position on Burma. In particular, the EP urges the governments of EU Member States that are members of the UN Security Council and those that are members of the UN Human Rights Council to seek backing for binding resolutions on Burma by those bodies. Major world powers and business can play a role Other actors could play their part, argue MEPs. China and India, as well as Russia, are asked "to use their considerable economic and political leverage with the Burmese regime in order to bring about substantial improvements in the country and, in any case, to cease the supply of weaponry and other strategic resources". And businesses which invest in Burma are urged to ensure that, in carrying out their projects, human rights are genuinely respected. * * * BANGLADESH In a resolution on Bangladesh, MEPs urge the Caretaker Government to act in accordance with the rule of law and to speed up the restoration of democracy. Following the declaration of a state of emergency in Bangladesh on 11 January 2007 and the postponement of parliamentary elections scheduled for 22 January, after poll-related violence, the Caretaker Government, with the objective of ending corruption, introduced measures including a ban on all political activity and the detention or charging of over 160 political leaders - including three former prime ministers - and 100,000 civilians, says the EP resolution. The EU Election Observation Mission suspended its operations on 22 January and the United Nations decided to withdraw their support for the electoral process on the same day. Bangladesh's longstanding tradition of secular democracy, including respect for human rights and especially women's rights, freedom of speech and religious tolerance, is increasingly under threat, believe MEPs. Condemnation of police violence, concern at arrests of political leaders The resolution therefore voices deep concern at the authorities' actions, including "the disproportionate response of the military and the police against the student protests which erupted in late August 2007 at Dhaka university". Parliament is concerned about the arrest and justification for ongoing detention of Awami League president Sheikh Hasina and Bangladesh Nationalist Party president Khaleda Zia and about the case of Sigma Huda, who has been sentenced on bribery charges. The EP urges the authorities to conduct the trials transparently and according to the rule of law and to allow access by international observers to all tribunals. Bangladesh government pressed to speed up new elections Overall, MEPs regret that "the Caretaker Government, while making progress on tackling corruption, has been far less assertive on political reform". The resolution thus "calls for a return to democracy and the lifting of the state of emergency in Bangladesh" and