{ "context": [ [ "Dove Bradshaw", [ "Dove Bradshaw (born September 24, 1949, in New York City) is an American artist.", " Beginning in 1969, Dove Bradshaw pioneered the use of Indeterminacy by enlisting the unpredictable effects of time, weather, erosion, and indoor and outdoor atmospheric conditions on natural, chemical, and manufactured materials.", " She has created chemical paintings that change with the atmosphere, erosion sculptures of salt, stone sculptures that weather, and, worked with crystals that receive radio transmissions from weather stations, local and short wave, along with radio telescope signals from Jupiter." ] ], [ "Ken Bradshaw", [ "Ken Bradshaw (born October 4, 1952) is an American professional surfer and winner of the 1982 Duke Kahanamoku Invitational Surfing Championship." ] ], [ "Secrets of the Lost Satellite", [ "Secrets of the Lost Satellite is the debut solo album by Ken Andrews.", " The album cover features the Nazca Lines taken by photographs from the Spot satellite in which the album was most likely named after.", " The tour that followed involved the band First Wave Hello opening for Ken and supporting Ken as his solo band.", " This was the first time Ken played Failure, ON and Year of the Rabbit songs as well as his new solo songs in the same set (Replicants cover songs were not included)." ] ], [ "Battle of Calcasieu Pass", [ "The Battle of Calcasieu Pass was a minor skirmish fought on May 6, 1864, at the mouth of the Calcasieu River in southwestern Louisiana, during the American Civil War.", " It resulted in a Confederate victory.", " The participants of the battle were Lt. Benjamin Loring and Lt. C. W. Lamson on the Union’s side, and Col. W. H. Griffin on the Confederate side.", " The union brought along two naval vessels, the U.S.S Wave and the U.S.S Granite City.", " The U.S.S Wave did not prove too effective during the battle and was captured early on, it was soon turned into a Confederate cargo ship.", " The U.S.S Granite City was originally a confederate blockade vessel, but was captured in 1863 by the U.S.S Tioga (Union).", " The U.S.S Granite City was now back in the hands of the Confederates.", " Captain Joseph A. Brickhouse, a Confederate veteran, said, “We fought in the open prairie, bringing on the attack with four small pieces of artillery and less than 300 infantry, poorly armed, attacking in the open prairie two such boats as the Granite City and Wave - Union gunboats - and capturing them after an action of less than two hours and 40 minutes duration.”", " He described his own forces (Confederate) as unprepared, and he stated that they still had an easy battle that was short in duration.", " The Confederate forces in this battle were split up into five battalions.", " The first battalion was Creuzbauer's Battery, 5th Texas Artillery.", " Every soldier in this battalion was born in Germany, and they all migrated to the U.S during the Civil War.", " The second battalion was named Griffin’s Battalion, and