Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (27 July 2006) The Commission did indeed reply to the points raised by the Honourable Member to his previous Written Question P‑1562/06 . The Honourable Member now raises some additional questions. The Commission does not share the Honourable Member’s views concerning the role played by the ‘performance of tests and the publication of magazines’. Of course, these methods have worked better in some Member States than in others, and the project proposal in question precisely foresees the transfer of know how from organisations with positive experiences in this field. The organisations which carry out no tests and sell no magazines are eligible for funding from the Commission as long as they propose projects that comply with the criteria specified in the different calls for proposals. The Commission only recognises as eligible for funding consumer organisations which are recognised by their own national authorities. Accordingly, the Commission is fully aware of the situation in Italy. The Commission allocates specific funding, with the approval of the Budgetary authority, to the European consumer organisations which comply with the criteria set in Article 7.2 and 7.3 of Decision No 20/2004/EC of Parliament and the Council of 8 December 2003 establishing a general framework for financing Community actions in support of consumer policy for the years 2004 to 2007 OJ L 5, 9.1.2004 . . Otherwise, the Commission does not allocate a priori a fixed percentage of its financing to any particular type of association. The Commission fixes the criteria for the eligibility of the specific projects and it is only on those grounds that the projects are evaluated and funding is allocated; there are no quotas for any particular kind of organisation. In this sense, the Commission cannot ensure that any particular type of organisation benefits from project financing. As far as the last question is concerned, the Commission would like to refer the Honourable Member to its reply to his previous Written Question P‑1562/06 . The Commission has sent a letter to each applicant organisation whose project proposal was not selected for funding, giving clear reasons for the decision.