Answer given by Mr Kovács on behalf of the Commission (8 August 2006) 1. The sale of herbal cigarettes as such is not affected by the European Court of Justice’s judgment of 30 March 2006 C-495/04 of 30 March 2006. . However, an exemption from excise duty may be granted only in cases where such products are used exclusively for medicinal purposes. Therefore, based on the Court ruling, they need to contain substances which have a medicinal effect. 2. In response to the Honourable Member's Written Question E‑3801/02 OJ C 88 E, 8.4.2004, at p. 583. , the Commission took the opportunity to discuss the subject and Member States’ procedures again at the meeting of the Excise Committee in April 2003. The Member States on whose markets these products were sold confirmed that they request either approval as a medicinal product or some kind of recognition by a pharmaceutical institution before they grant tax exemptions. The forthcoming meetings of the Excise Committee will provide an opportunity to draw the attention of the Member States to the Court ruling, in particular to the fact that such products need to contain substances which have a medicinal effect in order to justify a tax exemption. 3. The decision whether or not certain products are subject to excise duty does not depend on their intended purposes or on the general perception by the public but rather on the requirements laid down by law. On the basis of the excise duty law, products may be exempt only if they are used exclusively for medicinal purposes, as stated in the abovementioned Court ruling. 4. At present, the Community legislator does not provide for tax advantages for herbal cigarettes in general, absent substances with medicinal effects. Moreover, the presence of such substances gives Member States merely the faculty of favourable tax treatment, but does not oblige them to do this. It may be concluded that herbal cigarettes are not considered as a main tool for smoking cessation. 5. In 2006, the Commission has to submit to the Council and the Parliament a fourth report on excise duties on manufactured tobacco products, based on Article 4 of Council Directive 92/80/EEC Council Directive 92/80/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of taxes on manufactured tobacco other than cigarettes, OJ L 316, 31.10.1992, as amended. . The report will have to take into account the functioning of the Internal Market and the wider objectives of the Treaty, one of which is health protection. The Commission is therefore prepared to discuss the rule on ‘medicinal cigarettes’ with Member States.