cooperation framework agreement has been signed for the implementation of the single European sky and for research and development in the field of air traffic control. Recital (11) states that there should be contributions from the private sector to the budget for the implementation phase of SESAR. Recital (12) states that in view of the number of players involved and the financial and technical resources and technical resources needed it is necessary to set a legal entity "capable of ensuring the coordinated management of the funds assigned to the SESAR project during its implementation phase". Recitals (13) and (14) state that that entity should be regarded as being an international organisation for purposes of VAT and excise duty, whilst recital (14) proposes that it should be exempt from national tax other than VAT and excise duty and that its staff should be exempt from national income tax. Recital (15) provides that since SESAR is a research and development project which justifies funding from the Community research and development framework programmes, it is necessary to "set up a Joint Undertaking under Article 171 of the Treaty in order to enable considerable progress to be made in the development of technologies relating to air traffic control systems during the development phase (2008-2013)". Recital (16) mentions that "Article 4(g) of Decision 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 1996, on the guidelines on development of the Trans-European transport network, foresees the possibility to finance research and development activities". Recital (17) deals with the "main task" of the Joint Undertaking: "to organise and coordinate the SESAR project by combining public and private sector funding and using external technical resources, provided by its members, and in particular Eurocontrol’s experience". Recital (18) deals with the Joint Undertaking's seat. Recital (19) provides for representation within the Joint Undertaking of airspace users, given that they bear the route charges and hence make a financial contribution to R&D in the air traffic management sector. Recitals (20), (21) and (22), respectively, deal with the statutes of the Joint Undertaking, comitology and the need to set it up before the end of the definition phase. As for the enacting terms, Article 1 deals with the establishment of the Joint Undertaking. More specifically, paragraph 2 deals with its aim: The aim of the Joint Undertaking shall be to ensure the modernisation of the European air traffic management system by federating research and development efforts in the Community Emphasis supplied. . It shall be responsible in particular for carrying out the following tasks: – organising and coordinating the implementation of the SESAR project, in accordance with the plan to modernise air traffic management in Europe, hereinafter referred to as 'the plan', drawn up by Eurocontrol, by combining public and private sector funding; – updating the plan and verifying its execution; – organising the technical work of research and development, validation and study, to be carried out under its authority; – ensuring the supervision of activities related to the development of common products duly identified in 'the plan' and if necessary, to