between assistance provided by this Regulation and assistance provided by other Community instruments. Amendment 23 Article 10, paragraph 5 a (new) 5a. Before their implementation, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament about the Community's aid programmes under this Regulation. In order for this ex-ante control to be carried out, the Commission's reports shall include all information concerning the actions proposed, the beneficiaries thereof and the respective financing operations. Amendment 24 Article 11, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. The Commission shall report to the European Parliament on the proceedings of the Committees. Amendment 25 Article 12, paragraph 1 (1) Assistance under this Regulation may, inter alia , finance investments, procurement contracts, grants, including interest rate subsidies, special loans, loan guarantees and financial assistance, budgetary support, and other specific forms of budgetary aid, and the contribution to the capital of international financial institutions or the regional development banks. Budgetary support is contingent on the administration of public finances of the Partner Country being sufficiently transparent, reliable and efficient, and on well-defined sectorial or macroeconomic policies approved by international financing institutions having been put in place. 1. Assistance under this Regulation may, inter alia , finance investments, procurement contracts, grants, including interest rate subsidies, special loans, loan guarantees and financial assistance, and the contribution to the capital of international financial institutions or the regional development banks. Amendment 26 Article 14, title Implementation of Assistance Implementation of Assistance and its Visibility Amendment 27 Article 14, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The Commission shall promote detailed information and publicity about the projects and programmes financed in order to raise public awareness about the Community action and its objectives. Amendment 28 Article 14, paragraph 2 b (new) 2b. The Commission shall ensure consistency between assistance provided under this Regulation and assistance provided under other external assistance instruments including a separate instrument devoted to the promotion of human rights and democracy, as well as Member States" bilateral operations and funding from the EIB, other international organisations and regional development banks. Amendment 29 Article 17, paragraph 2 (2) Where a beneficiary country fails to respect these principles or the commitments contained in the relevant Partnership with the European Union or progress toward fulfilment of the accession criteria is insufficient, the Council, acting by qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may take appropriate steps with regard to any assistance granted under this Regulation. 2. Where a beneficiary country fails to respect these principles or the commitments contained in the relevant Partnership with or Accession Treaty to the European Union or progress toward fulfilment of the accession criteria is insufficient, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament , may take appropriate steps with regard to any assistance granted under this Regulation. In that case, the Commission shall initiate, within the framework of this Regulation, specific action aimed at resolving the problems hindering the pre-accession or accession process. Amendment 30 Article 17, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. The European Parliament may request the Commission to submit a proposal