Answer given by Mr Flynn on behalf of the Commission (3 May 1999) 1. The principle of equal treatment between women and men is enshrined in Article 141 (ex Article 119) of the EC Treaty as regards equal pay. The same principle was also implemented in various directives, and notably in Directive 76/207/EEC of 9 February 1976 on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions OJ L 39, 14.2.1976 . and Directive 79/7/EEC of 19 December 1978 on the progressive implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security OJ L 6, 10.1.1979 . . The 1999 guidelines for Member States employment policies include the need to mainstream equality between women and men in all pillars. This will encourage Member States to take into account the specific needs of women when implementing the employment guidelines. Community provisions on the principle of equal treatment (equal pay; access to employment, vocational training and promotion; working conditions) apply to both the public and private sectors. 2. The Commission is very much aware of the problems and challenges that women face when they want to enter and remain in the labour market and to start up their own business. The structural funds, especially the European social fund, have financed measures for training and employment of women, including through specifically targetted actions since the 1970s. Community initiatives have been tackling the issue of women setting up business for the past 10 years, through the instigation of programmes (LEI, NOW, Leader, Recite). The improvement of the position of women in the labour market and the development of women's entrepreneurship is an important component of the new structural funds (2000-2006). The European employment strategy has specifically identified as objectives the need to improve entrepreneurship in Europe and to boost the ability of women and men up to take new jobs. 3. As far as relieving the tax burden on families is concerned, taxation policy in this area falls within thecompetence of Member States. 4. The promotion of specific policies for senior citizens and the provision of care services for older people are matters which fall within the competence of the Member States. The Commission's role in these fields is to encourage the exchange of information and experience in order to promote the transfer of best practice. As its main contribution to the United Nations international year for older people the Commission is preparing a communication entitled Towards a Europe of all ages to focus attention on ageing and older people's issues in 1999 and beyond. It is intended that this should contain a short analysis of the character of the demographic challenge facing the Community and outline a strategy of active ageing as a plausible response.