Assisi, on whose feast day it was navigated and christened by French Catholic explorers in 1679.", " It is part of the Great Lakes system, and along with the St. Clair River and Detroit River, Lake St. Clair connects Lake Huron (to its north) with Lake Erie (to its south).", " It has a total surface area of about 430 sqmi and average depth of just 11 ft ; to ensure an uninterrupted waterway, government agencies on both sides of the lake have maintained a deep shipping channel through the shallow lake for more than a century." ] ], [ "Belle River Power Plant", [ "Belle River Power Plant is a major coal- and natural gas-fired power plant owned by Detroit Edison, a subsidiary of DTE Energy.", " It is located in St. Clair County, Michigan, on the peninsula formed by the St. Clair and Belle rivers.", " The plant was built across M-29 from the St. Clair Power Plant in East China, Michigan, and shares the coal delivery terminal with it.", " The Belle River plant shares cooling water from the St. Clair River with its sister plant.", " Five oil-fueled internal combustion generators (named IC1, IC2, 3, 4, and 5) were built in 1981, with the total output 13.75 megawatt.", " Coal-fired unit 1 of the Belle River plant was completed in 1984, followed by a similar unit 2 in 1985.", " Each unit has a nameplate capacity of 697.5 MWe, however the coal-fired plant as a whole generates 1260 MWe all year around.", " In 1999, three peaker natural-gas fired turbines (named 12-1, 12-2, and 13-1) were added, with the total name-plate capacity of 256 MWe." ] ], [ "Gairy St. Clair", [ "Gairy St. Clair (born 2 February 1975 in Georgetown, Guyana) is a professional boxer in the junior lightweight (130 lb) division.", " He is the former IBF world junior-lightweight champion." ] ], [ "Saint Clair Area School District", [ "The St. Clair Area School District is a diminutive, suburban public school district in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania.", " Centered on the borough of St. Clair, it also encompasses the boroughs of Middleport and New Philadelphia, plus the townships of Blythe Township, New Castle Township, and East Norwegian Township.", " The district is one of the 500 public school districts of Pennsylvania.", " Saint Clair Area School District encompasses approximately 48 sqmi .", " According to 2000 federal census data, it served a resident population of 7,020.", " By 2010, the US Census Bureau reported that the district's resident population declined to 6,695 people.", " The educational attainment levels for the St. Clair Area School District population (25 years old and over) were 82.6% high school graduates and 9.8% college graduates." ] ], [ "Gloriana St. Clair", [ "Gloriana St. Clair (born 1939) is a pioneer in the field of academic librarianship, as well as a scholar of Norse Mythology and its relationship to the works of J.R.R. Tolkien.", " She is currently the Principal Investigator of the Olive Executable Archive as well as the official University Liaison