the Council of 5 April 2006 on waste OJ L 114, 27.4.2006, p. 9. , – having regard to Directive 2006/114/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 concerning misleading and comparative advertising OJ L 376, 27.12.2006, p. 21. , – having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs ( A6-0255/2009 ), A. whereas the use of nanomaterials and nanotechnologies (hereinafter referred to as "nanomaterials") promises important advances with multiple benefits in innumerable applications for consumers, patients and the environment, as nanomaterials can provide different or new properties compared to the same substance or material in normal form; B. whereas the advances in nanomaterials are expected to have significant influence on policy decisions in the fields of public health, employment, occupational safety and health, information society, energy, transport, security and space, C. whereas despite the introduction of a specific European strategy on nanotechnologies and the subsequent allocation of approximately EUR 3 500 000 000 for research in nanosciences for the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) (FP7), the European Union is lagging behind its current main competitors – the USA, Japan and South Korea – who account for over half of the investment and two-thirds of the patents filed worldwide; D. whereas nanomaterials on the other hand potentially present significant new risks due to their minute size, such as increased reactivity and mobility, possibly leading to increased toxicity in combination with unrestricted access to the human body, and possibly involving quite different mechanisms of interference with the physiology of human and environmental species, E. whereas the safe development of nanomaterials can make an important contribution to the competitiveness of the European Union’s economy and to the achievement of the Lisbon strategy, F. whereas the current discussion about nanomaterials is characterised by a significant lack of knowledge and information, leading to disagreement and political struggles, starting at the level of definitions: a) concerning the size: approximate indication of the size ("in the order of 100 nm or less") versus a specific size range ("between 1 and 100 nm"), b) concerning different/new properties: different/new properties due to size effects as an independent criterion versus using such properties as an additional criterion for the definition of nanomaterials, c) concerning problematic properties: limitation of the definition of nanomaterials to certain properties (e.g. insoluble or persistent), or not making such limitations, G. whereas a fully developed set of harmonised definitions is not currently available although a number of international standards are either available or in progress, defining “nanoscale” as "having one or more dimensions of the order of 100 nm or less", and often distinguishing between: – nano-objects, defined as “discrete pieces of materials with one, two or three external dimensions at the nanoscale”, i.e. as materials constituted by isolated objects with very small dimensions, – nano-structured materials, defined as materials “having an