and work permits in order to facilitate the recruitment of workers on a seasonal or time-limited basis; 29. Believes that the proposal should, in order to reduce illegal immigration and black labour, include provisions enabling migrant workers to enter for purposes of seeking employment, subject to specific conditions such as the presence of a guarantor or sponsor or provision by the migrant of proof of ability to maintain himself; 30. Calls on the Commission to clearly define the rights and obligations of an economic migrant; 31. Calls on the Commission to define a return policy, based on the promotion of voluntary return, including possibly supportive measures in the country of origin; 32. Calls on the Commission to look also into the issue of possible over-stayers, taking into account the duration of employment and residence, the presence of family members and the level of integration; 33. Calls on the Member States to take account not only of economic interests but of all other legitimate interests when authorising labour migration so that authorisation is the outcome of a balanced weighing-up of the interests involved; 34. Calls on the Commission to consider the setting of minimum standards with regard to selection norms and with regard to the certification of foreign diplomas; 35. Calls on the Commission to devise and implement jointly with Member States, without delay, comprehensive guidelines on the objective compiling of meaningful statistics so as to obtain a complete and differentiated picture of migration and its economic impact in the Member States and countries of origin, and on existing labour requirements in the whole of the European Union; 36. Calls on the Commission to examine the possibility of local and/or regional information/contact points for European companies interested in employing economic migrants; 37. Encourages Member States to establish a dedicated website with job vacancies, so as to provide up-to-date and publicly accessible information to applicants, and to make the job vacancies available on the EURES website; 38. Calls on the Commission, when preparing its future action plan, to include provisions enabling the exchange of best practices in the area of integration between Member States; 39. Draws attention to the responsibility of individual Member States in matters of integration, which involves rights and responsibilities not only for the host society but also for immigrants; calls on the Member States to coordinate their individual policies using the open coordination method on the basis of the common guidelines on EU immigrant integration policy adopted by the Council on 19 November 2004; 40. Calls on the Commission to propose a regulation to ensure that, following their return to developing countries, economic migrants have access to the money paid by them into European social security schemes; 41. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to pay special attention to the specific situation of women migrants with dependent children, particularly as regards their rights under temporary contracts of employment; 42. Calls on the receiving Member States and the migrants' States of origin to conclude agreements to guarantee transfers of entitlements acquired in either country to the other regarding length