Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (12 January 2010) The Commission is aware of the increased mortality of honeybees which is occurring in Europe and elsewhere and recognises the complexity of the problem in which different factors could play a role. The Commission is and will be supporting a number of research projects relating to honeybees in its Research Framework Programmes. In the theme ‘Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, Biotechnology’ of the 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP7, 2007‑13), a project has been selected in the call 2009 on ‘Bee Health: identification of emerging honey bee pests and diseases and re-emergence of pathogens and explaining the intimate mechanisms and reasons for the increased honey bee mortality’ http://cordis.europa.eu/fp7/dc/index.cfm?fuseaction=usersite.cooperationdetailscallpage&call_id=143 . The project BEE DOC will start in March 2010 and will last for three years. BEE DOC comprises a network of 11 partners from honeybee pathology, chemistry, genetics and apiculture extension. BEE DOC will be linked to various national and international European, North- and South-American colony health monitoring and research programmes and will ensure the transfer of results to apicultural practice in the world community of beekeepers. A project called ‘Status and Trends of European Pollinators’ (STEP) was selected for funding under the topic ‘Assess the pan-European status of pollinators’ (ENV.2009.2.1.4.1), and is scheduled to start on 1 February 2010. STEP will document the nature and extent of declines in both wild and domesticated pollinators, and parallel declines in plants relying upon them, examine functional traits associated with particular risk, develop a Red List of some European pollinator groups, in particular bees, and lay the groundwork for future pollinator monitoring programmes. The relative importance of potential drivers of such change, including climate change, habitat loss and fragmentation, agrichemicals, pathogens, alien species, light pollution, and their interactions will also be assessed. The work will build upon existing datasets and models, complemented by spatially-replicated campaigns of field research to fill gaps in current knowledge. The findings will be integrated in a policy-relevant framework, creating Evidence-based Decision Support tools. Communication links will also be established to a wide range of stakeholders across Europe and beyond, including policy‑makers, beekeepers, farmers, academics and the general public. The research programme will improve the understanding of the nature, causes, consequences and potential mitigation of declines in pollinator services at local, national, continental and global scales. In 2008, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) requested information from Member States on their surveillance programmes, estimates of their bee populations for 2006-2007, and literature relating to colony collapse, weakening or mortality of bees. The information received has been collated in the report ‘Bee Mortality and Bee Surveillance in Europe’ http://efsa.europa.eu/EFSA/efsa_locale-1178620753812_1211902584688.htm . As a follow up to this work, working in coordination with the Commission, EFSA launched a pan-European research project on bee decline, in line with Article 36 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 OJ L 31, 1.2.2002. , to analyse the information received from the Member States. This project entitled ‘Bee mortality and bee surveillance in Europe’ was recently completed and the final report has been published on