and necessary to ensure that the undertaking's business continues to comply with the laws in each Member State, including the home Member State. Mr. LAKE also claims that the UK simply did not implement the legal requirements to enable the authorities to monitor the application of its own law in respect of PRE, despite its being appropriate and necessary, and thus breaching Community law. 23. Adequacy of UK regulatory regime, differing views Contrary to other witnesses, Charles THOMSON, current CEO of ELAS states in H2 that " for many years the Regulators in the UK had very extensive powers to raise questions with companies and considerable powers to intervene in exceptional cases. Specifically, the Secretary of State had the power to intervene if the reasonable expectations of policyholders or prospective policyholders were not being met. In short, my view is that the relevant regulators in the UK both before and after the changes made as a consequence of the consolidated life directive had sufficient powers to regulate effectively. " Mr Clive MAXWELL from HMT in H4 acknowledges the fact that there were "problems with the regulatory system in place at the time. It is not that individual directives – the Third Life Directive, for example – were not transposed properly; rather, with the benefit of hindsight, the system in place was not modernised: it was not necessarily the optimum system to be in place." 24. Under-resourcing of regulators not necessarily means UK approach was inappropriate Article 10 of the 3LD states that competent authorities must have ‘the power and the means to take any measures to prevent or remedy any irregularities prejudicial to the interests of the assured persons’. Mr MCELWEE believes, referring to Lord Penrose’s findings, that UK “ regulators were not (…) in some periods well-funded.” Therefore they did not have the ‘means’ to fully fulfil their duties. “As a result, I think the committee would do well perhaps to be cautious in reaching a conclusion that, because a different approach was taken in different Member States, that the UK ’s approach was not appropriate. ” This view was supported by Clive MAXWELL in H4, who, when commenting on resourcing issues of the regulators, says that "in his report, Lord Penrose draws attention to some issues such as the resourcing of certain aspects of the regulatory system in place at various points in time. However, I think it is fair to say that his comments were made with the benefit of hindsight and in many ways reflected his own views about the need for a stronger form of regulation. [...] So those sorts of comments about resourcing need to be seen in that light". Article 18 – Technical provisions; Article 25 – Solvency margin 25. UK system not respecting intention of the Directive Mr JOSEPHS (H2) believes that the intention of the Directive was that contracts of insurance should be very carefully valued to compute the liabilities. This should be based on the precise wording of each class of contract. Mr JOSEPHS believes that " the UK system was not