Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (10 January 2006) The link between child labour and education has been recognised by a number of Parliament resolutions, expressing the belief that free, compulsory, quality education should be made available to all children up to the age of 15 as stipulated by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), condemning all forms of child exploitation and calling for the eradication of child labour, and recognising that universal full-time education also includes an effective ban on child labour as well as an education system that includes strategies to integrate all out-of-school children. The Parliament has also made the link between the prohibition of child labour as part of the core labour standards, the eradication of poverty and promotion of decent work for all (Parliament Report of 15 November 2005 on the social dimension of globalisation). This requires a wider intergenerational approach in line with the European Social Agenda of February 2005 COM(2005)33 final. . The forthcoming Communication on the rights of the child and the forthcoming Communication on decent work will provide a coherent framework for action. In accordance with Article 32 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the Commission takes the position that eliminating child labour is crucial and closely linked to guarantee access to education for all children. Child labour in Europe was abolished through minimum age laws linked to the provision of compulsory education. In addition, Council Directive 94/33/EC of 22 June 1994 on the protection of young people at work OJ L 216, 20.8.1994 . established a minimum age of 15 years and also specific protection for young workers (until 18 years). The attention the Commission devotes to children in its development cooperation is essential in the context of long-term reduction of poverty. It is an integral part of the Development Policy Statement, the Cotonou Agreement and regional strategies. It is also at the heart of many Community actions at national and regional level. The Commission is currently drafting a Pact for Children and a Communication on children’s rights. It is also working on action-oriented strategies and plans concerning children and development in the relevant priority areas. One of these priorities is combating all forms of child labour, which is closely linked to the objective of education for all. The link between the child labour issue and education is reflected the Commission’s education policy for development cooperation, as is stressed in the Communication on Education and training in the context of poverty reduction in developing countries COM(2002)116 final. (March 2002) and the Council Resolution on Education and poverty. The Community’s approach was reinforced by the Parliament’s adoption of a Resolution on education in May 2003. Overall, the Commission allocates an average of EUR 260 million a year to the partner countries. The bulk of these funds is for basic education for children. Specific actions to eliminate child labour include the broad cooperation agreement signed by the Commission in May 2001 with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) on decent work, the external dimension of the EU's social