Answer given by Ms Hedegaard on behalf of the Commission (21 June 2010) The Commission considers illegal logging and deforestation to cause severe environmental damage, including a loss of biodiversity and exacerbation of climate change. In addition to reliable standards, reporting and verification being implemented by national legislation, the Commission also recognises the important role of certification schemes in order to promote and encourage best practice. In the case of the Round Table for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), the Commission welcomes the development of guidance to economic operators on how to identify high conservation areas http://www.rspo.org/files/resource_centre/RSPO%20Principles%20&%20Criteria%20Document.pdf , http://www.hcvnetwork.org/ , which are to be maintained and enhanced. However, the Commission does not currently intend to draw up certification schemes for specific commodities. The Commission also supports initiatives such as ‘Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in Developing Countries’ (REDD), as negotiated under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). Moreover, the Commission is committed to ensure that only those biofuels and bioliquids that are produced sustainably are counted towards the 2020 legislative targets for the use of renewable energy and green house gas emissions reductions. As such, the Renewable Energy and Fuel Quality Directives Directive 28/2009 of 23 April 2009, OJ L 140. , Directive 30/2009 of 23 April 2009, OJ L 140. contain mandatory sustainability criteria applying inter alia to palm oil, that prevent its production in high carbon stock land and areas of high biodiversity value. Biofuels and bioliquids must also demonstrate that they achieve minimum green house gas savings of 35 %, increasing to 50 % in 2017 and 60 % in 2018, compared to equivalent fossil fuel emissions. Although these criteria only apply to palm oil used for energy purposes, the Commission supports the idea that raw materials used for other purposes should also be produced sustainably and intends to launch a study in 2010 to analyse this issue. In its communication on ‘Addressing the challenges of deforestation and forest degradation’ COM(2008) 645 final. the Commission has acknowledged that tropical forests must be protected and has proposed to study the impact of EU consumption of imported food and non-food commodities that are likely to contribute to deforestation. This study could lead to considering policy options to reduce this impact.