and a Foreign Minister we simply will punch far below our weight". Turning to EU enlargement and the European Neighbourhood Policy, the president asked "How large will our Union be in 2018?". His answer: "It is clear that we will not be as large as some of us want, but almost certainly larger than today. To our East and our South lie countries that certainly will never join". However, "It seems to me that one of our fundamental concerns should be that differences in economic well-being and political liberty between the EU and its neighbours not be so great that we be faced with a high level of illegal immigration or with political refugees." A Europe of European citizens Mr Ilves than pointed out that "qualified majority voting will do little if we do not develop a more fundamental understanding of European interests". He went on to say "We need to return to the fundamental understanding that has made the EU successful: national interests are best served when we all give up a little so that the Union as a whole is successful". The president then highlighted the need "to upgrade our education in the languages of the Union", saying "Certainly in ten years time we should be able to look upon a Union where every student knows another member state language, other than English". The need "to think more in terms of regions" was also important. "Here the Parliament has shown that it can play a larger role than ever imagined", said Mr Ilves, adding "I am proud that an initiative I was associated with when I was here, the Baltic Sea Strategy is one of the first EU policies that actually started here, right here in the European Parliament". "The Parliament is precisely that link between the EU institutions and the citizen that makes the EU work", he emphasised. History Finally, the president stressed the importance of history. "No less important for citizens Europe, a Europe of European citizens, is that we know who we are, where we came from and how we got here", he said. "Our task, my dear colleagues, is to know our Europe", he continued, and cited "one of the greatest Europeans of the 20th century", Salvador de Madariaga, who when in exile from the Franco regime had said: " This Europe must be born. And she will be born when Spaniards say “our Chartres”, Englishmen “our Cracow”, Italians “our Copenhagen” and Germans “our Bruges”…. Then Europe will live. For then it will be that the spirit which leads Europe will have uttered the creative words: Fiat Europa ” Mr Ilves' closing words were "Europe is far from complete, we still have so much to do. In my homeland, Estonia, when we have a great task to fulfil, we say: may we have the strength to do it". Briefing article 6.3.08 + related links -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080219BRI21798 ITEM-002-EN NOT XML V0//EN -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 ITEM-001-EN