bottom trawl fishing gears, but which are not currently under fishing licence. The value and employment data of the fisheries concerned for EU fishing vessels using bottom trawl are not available in a comprehensive way. The annual economic report (2004, 2005) Source: Annual economic report: Economic performance of selected European fishing fleets (2004, 2005), Q5CA‑2001‑01502 and EC Tender FISH/2005/12. can nevertheless shed some light on the economic performance of a selected number of Member State fishing fleets using bottom trawl. Again, it is necessary to warn that such data do not considerthe activities taking place in the high seas separately. In addition, the data do not distinguish between vessel sizes. The information concerns bottom trawlers bearing the flag of 3 Member States (France, Spain and Italy) based on figures for the years 2003 and 2004. It relates to a total of 3734 vessels whose landings are estimated at a value of EUR 1026 million, with related employment of a total 14211 workers. Finally, with regards to the response that the Commission intends to provide to the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea ICES scientific advice, attention is drawn to the fact that the latest scientific advice of ICES was issued on 9 June 2006 and is currently being examined by the Commission services. On the basis of this advice, the Commission will propose total allowable catch limits (TACs) for adoption by the fisheries Council later on during this year. The Commission is also drafting a review of the management measures in force concerning deep-water species. On the basis of its conclusions, the Commission will propose a revised fishing effort management regime from 2007 onwards. Regarding specifically the advice provided by ICES on the protection of vulnerable habitats, area closures decided by North East Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC) in 2004 will come under review in 2007. During the last annual meeting of NEAFC in late 2005, the Community tabled a proposal providing for further area closures to fishing for deep species in the Hatton Bank and Rockall areas in accordance with the recommendations issued by ICES. NEAFC, was however unable to reach consensus on such closures. It is expected that NEAFC will again consider area closures at its 25th annual meeting next November.