Question for written answer E-009003/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Sabine Lösing (GUE/NGL) (11 October 2011) Subject: Sandbostel Prisoner-of-War Camp Memorial The Sandbostel Memorial is the only camp memorial in Germany in which barracks from the Fascist era still stand. Given that about 90 % of the area of the former prisoner of war camp has been privatised, these barracks are in great danger of falling into ruin. A house has been built on another part of the former camp. It is for this reason that the Sandbostel Camp Memorial is so important, as no other prisoner barracks from the Fascist period in such good condition, can be found anywhere else in Germany. The camp is seen as belonging to a group, along with Buchenwald, Neuengamme, Bergen-Belsen, Dachau and other memorials. The camp memorial, which is of supra-regional or national importance and indeed of European significance, and its further development are threatened for two reasons; the first of which is the advancing disintegration of the oldest barracks, now standing on private land, which, in their present state, can no longer be found anywhere else on former Nazi territory. Secondly, a private detached house has been erected in the middle of the former Stalag X B camp (on the former roll call square). At Stalag X B, there were hundreds of deaths due to the brutal suppression of an uprising by starving prisoners, plague-like waves of typhus and as a result of the death marches of more than 10,000 prisoners, consequently thousands of corpses. This situation has led to great indignation on the part of the relatives of victims who died there — among the many prisoners of war from Russia and other nations there were also Jewish concentration camp prisoners from Neuengamme. 1. Is the Commission aware of the Camp Memorial at Sandbostel and of the situation there? 2. Is the Commission taking an active role in this affair? If so, in what way? If not, is the Commission considering becoming active in this affair? 3. Does the Commission consider itself in a position to transform the whole area of the former concentration camp into a historical site?