an independent and transparent procedure for their identification agreed with the Scientific Council including a consultation of the scientific community and a report to the European Parliament and the Council. They will be appointed for a period of four years, renewable once, on a basis of a rotating system which will ensure the continuity of the Scientific Council's work. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 33 Annex I, Chapter II "Ideas", Subtitle "Activities", paragraph 6 The administrative and staffing costs for the ERC relating to the Scientific Council and dedicated implementation structure will be consistent with lean and cost-effective management; administrative expenditure will be kept to a minimum, consistent with ensuring the resources necessary for high quality implementation. The administrative and staffing costs for the ERC relating to the Scientific Council and dedicated implementation structure will be consistent with lean and cost-effective management; administrative expenditure will be kept to a minimum and will not exceed 5% of the total financial allocation for the ERC , consistent with ensuring the resources necessary for high quality implementation, in order to maximise funding for frontier research . Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council . Amendment 34 Annex I, Chapter II "Ideas", Subtitle "Activities", paragraph 9 The implementation and management of the activity will be reviewed and evaluated on an on‑going basis to assess its achievements and to adjust and improve procedures on the basis of experience. In the context of the interim evaluation referred to in Article 7(2), an independent review will also be carried out of the ERC's structures and mechanisms, against the criteria of scientific excellence, autonomy, efficiency and transparency and with the full involvement of the Scientific Council. The review will explicitly look at the advantages and disadvantages of a structure based on an Executive Agency, and a structure based on Article 171 of the Treaty. On the basis of this review, these structures and mechanisms should be modified as appropriate. The Commission will ensure that all the necessary preparatory work is undertaken and presented to the European Parliament and the Council, with a view to a transition to any modified structure required, as soon as possible. The progress report referred to in Article 7(2), preceding the interim evaluation, will give initial findings on the functioning of the ERC. The implementation and management of the activity will be reviewed and evaluated on an on‑going basis to assess its achievements and to adjust and improve procedures on the basis of experience. In the context of the interim evaluation referred to in Article 7(2), an independent review will also be carried out of the ERC's structures and mechanisms, against the criteria of scientific excellence, autonomy, efficiency and transparency and with the full involvement of the Scientific Council. This will include the process and criteria for the selection of the members of the Scientific Council. The review will explicitly look at the advantages and disadvantages of a structure based on an Executive Agency, and a structure based on Article 171 of