Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (26 June 2008) 1. The detailed assessment of the Member State's measures to implement the directive is still ongoing. The Commission's present knowledge, based on information provided by the Member States, is as follows: — Article 8 (a)‑option: Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain; — Article 8 (b)‑option: Estonia, Finland, Ireland, The Netherlands, Slovenia, Sweden, United Kingdom; — Option can not yet be assessed by the Commission: Greece. 2. Based on information provided by the Member States, the three-years extension was invoked by 23 Member States: Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, The Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom. 3. Firstly, a broad variety of inspection schemes was and still is to be (final deadline: 4 January 2009) implemented by Member States. In some cases, these even vary at the regional level. Secondly, the Member State's rules and guidelines for inspections that are available to the Commission are extensive and complex. Hence, the Commission can not provide a concise and complete overview of Article 8 (a)‑implementation. The European Buildings Platform (http://www.buildingsplatform.org/cms/) provides continuous helpful information on this matter. The distinction between different rated outputs of boilers in many Member States depends on the energy source used. The required frequency of inspections for gas boilers varies in Member States and Regions and frequently depends on the rated output of the boiler. National regulations on tax-deductions and inspection of flues are not part of the notification requirements under Directive 2002/91/EC Directive 2002/91/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the energy performance of buildings, OJ L 1, 4.1.2003. and can therefore not be evaluated. 4. The detailed assessment of the Member States' approach to implement Article 8 (b) is still ongoing. Therefore, the Commission can not yet provide any definite and detailed reply to this question. 5. The handling of enforcement varies in the Member States from the consumer's (building owner's) control to random sampling checks by public authorities. 6. National regulations on penalties are not part of the notification requirements under Directive 2002/91/EC and can therefore not be evaluated. 7. A Commission contractor (www.vhk.nl) analysed Member States' contributions in a detailed study under the 2005/32/EC Framework Directive on Eco-design of Energy-using Products Directive 2005/32/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2005 establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-using products and amending Council Directive 92/42/EEC and Directives 96/57/EC and 2000/55/EC of Parliament and of the Council, OJ L 191, 22.7.2005. (EuP) and estimates the cost-effective energy and carbon dioxide (CO 2 ) savings of heating systems to 40 % (www.ecoboiler.org/public/ecoboiler_executivesummary.pdf).