adopted without a positive vote of the representatives of the Commission . The Executive Director of the Agency shall not vote. The rules of procedure shall establish the more detailed voting arrangements, in particular the conditions for a member to act on behalf of another member. Article 6 Tasks of the Administrative Board The Administrative Board shall ensure that the Agency carries out the work entrusted to it, under the conditions set out in this Regulation, and shall take any necessary decision to this end. In respect of security accreditation tasks and decisions provided for in Chapter II, the Administrative Board shall be responsible only for resources and budgetary matters. The Aministrative Board shall also : (a) appoint the Executive Director pursuant to Article 7(2); (b) adopt not later than 15 November each year , and after receiving the Commission's opinion, the work programme of the Agency for the coming year ▌; (c) perform its duties in relation to the Agency's budget pursuant to Articles 10 and 11; (d) oversee the operation of the Galileo security center (referred to as the "Galileo Security Monitoring Centre" or "the GSMC") as referred to in Article 16(a)(ii) of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 ; (e) exercise disciplinary authority over the Executive Director; (f) adopt the special provisions necessary for the implementation of the right of access to the documents of the Agency, in accordance with Article 18; (g) adopt the annual report on the activities and prospects of the Agency and forward it, by 1 July, to the Member States, the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Court of Auditors; the Agency shall forward to the budgetary authority all information relevant to the outcome of the evaluation procedures; (h) adopt its rules of procedure. ▌ Article 7 Executive Director 1. The Agency shall be managed by its Executive Director, who shall carry out his/her duties under the supervision of the Administrative Board ▌ . 2. The Executive Director shall be appointed by the Administrative Board on the grounds of merit and documented administrative and managerial skills, as well as relevant competence and experience, from a list of at least three candidates proposed by the Commission , after an open competition, following publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and elsewhere of a call for expressions of interest . The Administrative Board shall take its decision by a three-quarters majority of its members. Power to dismiss the Executive Director shall lie with the Administrative Board, according to the same procedure. The Executive Director's term shall be five years . This term of office may be renewed once for a further five-year period. 3. The European Parliament or the Council may call upon the Executive Director to submit a report on the performance of his/her tasks, and to make a statement before these institutions . Article 8 Tasks of the Executive Director The Executive Director: (a) shall be responsible for representing the Agency , with the exception of activities and decisions undertaken in accordance with the Articles of