13 January 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by the following Members: Barón Crespo, Schori and Sakellariou on behalf of the PSE Group on the Middle East peace process European Parliament resolution on the Middle East peace process The European Parliament, - having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation in the Middle East, - having regard to the conclusions of the European Council of 10 and 11 December 1999 in Helsinki, - having regard to United Nations Security Council Resolutions 242, 338 and 425, A. whereas the peace process has been given fresh impetus by the decision of the Israeli and Syrian Governments to resume the negotiations interrupted in March 1996, B. welcoming the talks which have been held in Shepherdstown, USA, between the two parties, with the participation of the US President, Mr Bill Clinton, and the decision to continue them in the next few weeks, C. whereas these negotiations are dealing with the key issues, such as the Israeli withdrawal from the Golan Heights, security arrangements, water, the normalisation of relations between the two countries and the timetable for the implementation of any agreement, D. whereas, despite the problems being encountered, the implementation of the Sharm El-Cheikh Agreement between the Israelis and the Palestinians must be completed, E. whereas the breakthroughs in the negotiations between the Israelis and the Syrians are also bringing a solution to the Lebanese question and comprehensive, fair peace throughout the region closer, F. whereas the resumption of the multilateral negotiations, provided for by the 1991 Madrid agreements and scheduled for late January 2000, will substantially improve the chances of progress in the peace process, G. whereas the EU’s modest involvement in the political negotiations does not correspond to the substantial contribution it made both through economic and financial aid and through its political initiatives and the important activities of its Special Envoy and its High Representative for the CFSP, 1. Welcomes, along with the Israeli and Syrian Governments, the decision to reopen bilateral negotiations on all the issues which must be resolved if a lasting peace agreement consistent with the United Nations resolutions is to be achieved; 2. Takes the view that all the parties involved in the peace process must make an exceptional commitment with a view to supporting these new efforts; 3. Calls on the Council and Commission to play a more active and visible political role in the processes under way and to seek to devise, through the work of the High Representative for the CFSP and the Special Envoy to the Middle East, arrangements which will enable the European Union to make a substantial contribution to the Israeli-Syrian negotiations; 4. Takes the view that the European Union should use all the political, financial and economic means necessary in connection with its role in the peace process with a view to contributing to the implementation of the current and future agreements between the parties involved; 5. Urges that the negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians should