3rd energy package: after electricity, Industry MEPs turn on Gas Energy 2008-05-15 - 10:01 To bundle or unbundle, which way is the EU's gas industry heading? If you use gas for heating or cooking, or use electricity from gas-fired power stations, then the price and availability of gas is a key concern. On Monday 19 May in Strasbourg, MEPs on the Industry committee will vote on a proposed gas directive that could radically overhaul Europe's gas industry. It would open up the domestic market to competition from other gas companies - meaning more choice and efficiency according to its supporters although some have misgivings over the impact on prices. The vote is by no means a foregone conclusion. On 6 May MEPs in the Industry Committee voted in favour (31 to 17 with 2 abstentions) of liberalising the electricity market. It is not known whether such a result will be repeated for the gas directive. Aims of the proposed legislation At the heart of the Commission's proposals is "ownership unbundling". This is the separation of supply and production of gas. For example, if a network operator is in the same group as the company that supplies or produces energy, it will defend the interests of the group. However, with unbundling the network could belong to an independent company. In this case it is natural they will allow as many companies as possibility to use its network and maximise profits and efficiency. Its supporters claim that increased competition between energy companies will lead to more customer choice, greater investment in pipes, terminals and key infrastructure. When initially announced, the plans for unbundling were opposed by France, Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, Greece, Latvia, Luxembourg and Slovakia. They believe that enforced unbundling is unconstitutional and could have negative social consequences. Instead, they propose to give EU members the option of undergoing "legal unbundling", whereby companies could retain their network assets by ensuring "an effective separation of interests" - through rules on assets such as equipment and staff. In the vote on 6 May Members on the Industry Committee narrowly backed an amendment to support unbundling (25-22 in favour), defeating the so called Franco-German "third way" proposals. Gas rapporteur slams current practice Parliament's rapporteur is Italian MEP Romano Maria La Russa of the UEN group. He supports "unbundling" and says that such a choice is not based on ideological grounds but rather due to "the reality of the facts". Mr La Russa has strongly criticised the current situation in the gas market. He sees it as a bad deal for the consumers and says that "gas bills are incomprehensible" to people. He wants a lot more choice and information about suppliers and says at present people cannot gain access to information about their gas consumption and how much they are paying for it. Will prices go up or down? There are fears about what will happen to prices in a liberalised market. The EU statistical arm Eurostat collected figures showing that since 1998, prices in liberalised markets such as the UK Netherlands, Spain and Sweden prices have