idle conditions. Justification In practice it is not possible to assume that the engine will be warm. Machines are started up on site, which must be reflected in the test. During a transient cycle of operating conditions, therefore, the test should also take appropriate account of the behaviour of the engine at ambient temperature, applying an 8:2 ratio for warmed up vis-à-vis non-warmed up engines. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Further steps required to protect health and the environment Nitrogen oxides and particulates which are produced by combustion in diesel engines are to a large extent harmful to health. While, as ozone precursors, nitrogen oxides are one of the main causes of summer smog, particulates cause respiratory diseases and are suspected of being carcinogenic. In particular, fine particulates produced directly through combustion processes and indirectly through reaction with gaseous precursors penetrate deep into the lungs. Diesel engines without particulate filters emit approximately 1 000 times more carcinogenic respirable fine dust than petrol engines. They also emit three times as much nitrogen oxides. The consequences are asthma attacks, respiratory and coronary diseases, possibly lung cancer and reduced life expectation and premature deaths as a result of these diseases. The US Environment Protection Agency gives a very good overview of the effects of these pollutants on human health in its proposal of 15 April 2003 for further limit values for non-road mobile machinery which, in the medium term, also seeks to set the same standards as for on-road vehicles (see http://www.epa.gov/otaq/nonroad.htm). Studies show a direct link between exposure to these pollutants and a higher incidence of heart and lung disease, including premature mortality. Not only health, but the environment and climate are also affected by diesel engine emissions. Great progress has been made in reducing pollution on the roads; particular attention should now be paid to the mobile machinery sector. The more emissions of pollutants from road transport decline, the bigger proportionally the share of the off-road sector. There is still a great potential for reduction among construction vehicles, fork lift trucks, mobile cranes, etc. and, in particular, also inland waterway vessels and rail vehicles. There is no reason why this potential should not be exploited. Moreover, this machinery is mostly used compressed so that particularly high local air pollution is discernible. Apart from the need for a further reduction in pollution on environmental and health grounds, European legislation on air quality also requires further tightening of limit values for particulates and nitrogen oxides. Directive 99/30/EC on air quality sets correspondingly stringent quality standards, in particular for nitrogen oxides and particulates, which must be observed from 2005 and 2010 respectively. Emission reductions for mobile machinery In its proposal, the Commission stresses the need for a global approach. However, the current state of the art has already advanced beyond Stages III A/B proposed by the Commission and the USA has also taken a more ambitious approach to the problems involved. As the structure of the market in mobile machinery is global, it is important to monitor developments in the USA. In addition, from 2009, sulphur-free fuel will be