of 342,7 million in 2006. The vast bulk of expenditure on agencies falls under Heading 1 where around 50% of the total agencies' budget for 2007 is concentrated. 37% of the total amount is planned for agencies under Heading 3, whereas Heading 2, with 8%, and Heading 4, with 5%, only receive minor shares. 92. The rate of increase of 18% in the agencies' budget compared to 2006 is partly due to the creation of new agencies like the Chemicals Agency or the Gender Institute. However, the rates of increase in the budgets of the individual agencies are anything but homogeneous. . The rapporteur will fully evaluate the situation after the annual meeting with the agencies on 12 July. Pilot projects and preparatory actions 93. The Commission usually presents with the PDB a first working document on pilot projects and preparatory actions. For 2007, however, this document will be ready a later than planed and is not at the rapporteur's disposal at the time of drafting this document. A review of the Commission's remarks and proposals will be made in due course. 94. The main provisions of the new MFF should be recalled: "...Furthermore, the institutions agree to limit the total amount of appropriations for pilot schemes to EUR 40 million in any budget year. They also agree to limit to EUR 50 million the total amount of appropriations for new preparatory actions in any budget year, and to EUR 100 million the total amount of appropriations actually committed for preparatory actions. (annex 2, D) 95. Two issues arise. Firstly, the provisions of the current financial perspective clearly limits the number of years for which commitments can be entered for a pilot project in the budget to two years. This provision is not retained in the MFF, at least not explicitly. It could be argued that no such restriction in time will exist as of 1 January 2007. Similarly, the previous rule of a maximum of three years for preparatory actions is no longer mentioned. The rapporteur will seek clarification on this aspect. 96. Secondly, it should naturally be pointed out that the Parliament's margin for manoeuvre should increase. With respect to pilot projects, the annual limit will be EUR 40 m instead of EUR 36m currently. For new preparatory actions the annual limit will be EUR 50m instead of EUR 30m currently. For the global amount of preparatory actions committed the maximum increase possible will be EUR 25 million (with limit of EUR 100m instead of EUR 75m currently). Nevertheless, the rapporteur highlights that the margins in the new MFF will oblige the EP to review carefully its own approach to PPs/ APs. 97. In the Commission's general presentation of the PDB it is stated that appropriations for pilot projects amount to EUR 1 million in commitments and EUR 22,7 million in payments, and for preparatory actions EUR 3,3 million and EUR 47 million respectively. The rapporteur emphasises that the Commission's working document should contain a clear analysis of how the previous projects have either been integrated into the new legislation