Answer given by Ms Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (20 September 2007) In 2006, the EU expressed its regrets that the 2005 NPT (Non-Proliferation Treaty) Review Conference was unable to agree on a substantive final document to address the most pressing challenges to the EC Treaty. The recent satisfactory conclusion of the first session of the Preparatory Committee of the 2010 NPT Review Conference leaves room for hope. The overwhelming majority of States Parties showed commitment to the NPT regime and participated with a positive and constructive spirit. The EU and the Member States actively contributed to the deliberations of the session by submitting detailed views and proposals on all three areas of review: non-proliferation, disarmament and peaceful use of nuclear energy. Acting in close co‑operation with the Council through the WMD (weapon of mass destruction) Monitoring Centre, the Commission is fully committed to addressing security challenges in the nuclear field, in line with the EU WMD Strategy, United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 1540, the G8 Global Partnership, (the Proliferation Security Initiative) and the Global Initiative. The Commission provides an essential contribution in many areas. First, under Chapter VII of the Euratom Treaty, all holders of civil nuclear materials are under the obligation to report to the Commission, which in turn reports to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in accordance with the relevant safeguards agreements with the IAEA. Second, with the Dual Use Regulation 1334/2000 Council Regulation (EC) No 1334/2000 of 22 June 2000 setting up a Community regime for the control of exports of dual-use items and technology, OJ L 159, 30.6.2000. , the Commission ensures that the EU’s nuclear export control rules are robust and uniform. Third, the Commission has played a major role in improving the safety and security of nuclear installations in the former Soviet Union through the Tacis programme and will continue to do so under the new external aid instruments such as the Stability Instrument and the Instrument for Nuclear Safety. Indeed, these new instruments permit the Commission to provide wider technical support to a wider range of recipients than previously was the case.