working groups were established to scrutinise archives, enquire into the provenance of works of art and, in some cases, examine individual requests for restitution. Unfortunately, it is generally acknowledged that the problem of looted art in Europe did not end in 1945. By way of example, the Commission on Real Property Claims in Bosnia-Herzegovina has recognised claims for loss of property in connection with the recent Serbian ‘ethnic cleansing’ campaign in Bosnia. Sadly, similar claims are almost certain to arise from future conflicts. Current State of Play The Nazi regime was responsible for looting vast amounts of valuable cultural goods, not only in Germany, but also in every country which was allied with or occupied by that regime, including Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, Hungary, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania and the former Soviet Republics occupied by Nazi forces (the Baltic Republics, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus). Under international law, this looting was illegal. During the war the United Nations made it clear that looted property recovered by States was to be restored to its nation of origin for return to its original owner. This looted property was then granted special status by the Nuremberg Tribunal, which expressly ruled that under Article 6(b) of the Nuremberg Charter, the looting of private property during the war could constitute a crime under international law. In its final judgment, the Tribunal specifically ruled that certain looting conducted after September 1, 1939 was a crime against humanity. See Judgment of the International Military Tribunal, 30 September 1946. (The panel did not excuse looting from Jews before that date, finding only that it was not a war crime. Germany itself recognised the earlier looting as illegal in various post-war treaties). Numerous post-war treaties also recognised that States had a duty to recover looted property, notwithstanding transfers to seemingly innocent purchasers, and a duty to care for and maintain that property pending return to the nation of origin. Thus, under international law, States became custodians for looted property, not owners of it. National laws adopted after the war in Switzerland, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy and the Netherlands recognised this concept, creating a presumption in favour of the original owner of property looted during this period. Today, however, the majority of these national laws have lapsed or expired owing to statutes of limitations, and there is no international convention applicable to the World War II period. Given that the problem is recognised, States are still seeking legal instruments to harmonise discrepancies in national laws. At institutional level, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has adopted a Resolution on Looted Jewish Cultural Property Resolution 1205, adopted on 4 November 1999. . In addition to these rules, on the occasion of a diplomatic conference in Washington on Holocaust Era Assets on 3 December 1998, 44 States including all EU Member States adopted ‘non-binding’ principles and morally undertook to return looted cultural goods. The participating States recognised the mass of looted cultural goods still in circulation and enacted eleven recommendations by which they agreed to (i) take all measures