{ "context": [ [ "St. John's Seminary (California)", [ "St. John's Seminary is a Roman Catholic seminary located in Camarillo, California.", " It is within the Santa Barbara Pastoral Region of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles.", " The seminarians prepare for assignments in dioceses as well as religious orders." ] ], [ "St. John, Florida", [ "St.John and Robertsville are two unincorporated communities in Gadsden County, Florida, United States.", " They are located near the intersection of Old Philadelphia Road and Old Bainbridge Road.", " Unlike some people think, the communities are not a part of the Mount Pleasant area.", " They recently had a zipcode change which split the community into two zipcodes, however the community considers itself a part of Quincy.", " They are approximately 5 miles outside of the city limits of Quincy, Florida.", " St. John borders the city of Gretna and the Robertsville community borders the Georgia state line, Attapugus, Georgia, Faceville, Georgia and Chattahoochee, Florida.", " These two communities are usually spoken of and thought of together although they are separate and distinct.", " St.John is known for its school, St.John's elementary school, the St.John/Robertsville park, the St.John volunteer fire department and most recently the St.John Church of God in Christ.", " The church has been a staple in the community for over 50 years but is noted because of its new building on Old Philadelphia highway.", " The church was featured in the local newspaper The Gadsden County Times, because of its expansion.", " The church was also granted St. John Church of God in Christ day in May 2010 by then commission chair Angela Sapp.", " The church has launched many Christian leaders over the years, such as Nicky Yarborough These achievements have made St.John Church of God In Christ #86 among the top 1000 black (African-American) churches.", " Other churches in the area include the St. John AME church.", " It is also known for the McCloud’s Assisted Living Facility, which was the oldest assisted living facility in Quincy, Florida until it closed in 2006 due to health concerns of the administrator.", " The community is proud of its growth and achievements.", " St. John shares its facilities with Robertsville (its closest neighbor) and other communities in Gadsden County.", " It also borders the city of Gretna, Florida.", " The communities associate themselves with the city of Quincy as their city." ] ], [ "St. John Vianney Seminary", [ "St. John Vianney Seminary (SJV) is a Roman Catholic college seminary located on the campus of the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota.", " The seminary's mission is \"to provide basic training today for tomorrow's Catholic priests.\"", " Seminarians undergo a four-year program of spiritual conferences and individual spiritual direction in order to help them grow strong in their Catholic faith and for vocational discernment.", " The major seminary affiliated with SJV, the Saint Paul Seminary School of Divinity, is on the other side of the campus of the University of St. Thomas." ] ], [ "St. Edward Seminary", [ "Saint Edward