to cover all Member States. The Council finally agreed to this request. On housing, the Commission proposed to render housing ineligible. The European Council proposed to provide for the eligibility of housing in the ERDF Regulation for Member States whose GDP does not exceed 85% of the average EU GDP. The Council finally included in its common position a specific provision, taking into account amendments proposed by the European Parliament in its first reading, rendering eligible housing expenditure for the costs of social housing renovation aimed at saving energy and protecting the environment. Cohesion Fund On the Cohesion Fund, Parliament and the rapporteur Alfonso ANDRIA (ALDE, IT) backed the increase from €18 billion (for the period 2000-2006) to €61.59 billion with the adoption of a report with 567 votes in favour 29 against and 36 abstentions. Following the Union’s enlargement on 1 May 2004, the Cohesion Fund applies to the 10 new Member States until the end of 2006, as well as to the three Member States eligible at the end of the 2000-2006 period (Greece, Portugal and Spain). To benefit from the Cohesion Fund, a Member State's per capita Gross National Income (GNI) must be less than 90% of the Community average National Income, which is the case for all the new Member States. European territorial cooperation This is a new objective proposed by the Commission, building on the experience of the Interreg initiative (interregional cooperation). It is aimed at furthering the balanced integration of the EU's territory by supporting cooperation between regions across land or sea frontiers. It will include actions to promote integrated territorial development and support for interregional cooperation and the exchange of experiences. As part of the deal on the financial perspective, MEPs secured a further €300 million extra for territorial cohesion. The House supports the idea that €200 million should be allocated to the trans-national area and the remaining €100 million should be given to inter-regional cooperation. The Council decided to follow rapporteur Jan OLBRYCHT (EPP-ED, PL) and the European Parliament's suggestion of replacing the name of the instrument "European grouping of cross-border cooperation" with "European grouping of territorial cooperation". European Social Fund Parliament adopted a co-decision report in second reading approving the Council Common Position concerning the regulation on the European Social Fund (ESF) for 2007 to 2013. The rapporteur underlined that Council had incorporated a great number of the Parliament's first reading amendments in its Common Position. Parliament wanted to strengthen aspects like the fight against social exclusion, non-discrimination and gender equality, as well as the integration of disabled people and inactive people, especially long term unemployed young people. The ESF regulation for 2007 to 2013 provides a focussed framework for ESF interventions throughout the EU. It lays down specific provisions concerning the type of activities which may be financed by the ESF. The ESF is the major financial instrument of European social policy. It contributes to the economic and social cohesion objective set in article 158 of the EC Treaty, by supporting policies and priorities aimed to achieve progress towards full employment, improve