Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (27 November 2007) The Honourable Member is informed that the Commission proposal COM(2007)372 final. for a new common organisation of this market in wine, inter alia , intends to improve the coherence of the definition of wine and the use of enrichment practices. On the question on the prohibition of enrichment with sucrose, Council Regulation (EC) No 1493/1999 OJ L 316, 15.12.2000. on the common organisation of the market (CMO) in wine defines wine in Annex I as ‘the product obtained exclusively from the total or partial alcoholic fermentation of fresh grapes, whether or not crushed, or of grape must’. Grape must in turn is defined as ‘the liquid product obtained naturally or by physical processes from fresh grapes’. The above definition of wine has been in force since the adoption of Council Regulation (EEC) No 816/70 of 28 April 1970 Regulation (EEC) No 816/70 of the Council of 28 April 1970 laying down additional provisions for the common organisation of the market in wine, OJ L 99, 5.5.1970. and is maintained in the current reform proposal. Enrichment of wine with added sugar currently constitutes a derogation from the general rule and should be practiced only in years characterised by unfavourable climatic conditions and only in certain zones of the European Union (EU). In the Judgment of the European Court of Justice of 17.09.1986 Commission of the European Communities v. Federal Republic of Germany — Wine — Enrichment — Rectified concentrated grape must — Case 48/85 — European Court reports 1986, p. 2549. , it was indicated that according to the Commission, ‘(…) the prohibition of the use of sucrose for enrichment is an objective of the common policy in the wine sector.’ Therefore, the existing CMO clearly but exceptionally, allows enrichment of wine using sucrose but the Commission has an obligation and a responsibility to ensure coherence in Community legislation. By proposing to authorise the enrichment of the alcoholic strength of wine, because there is inadequate fructose in the wine grapes harvested in certain zones of the EU, only by using concentrated must or rectified concentrated must — raw material deriving from fresh wine grapes — the Commission aims to achieve more coherence with the definition of wine. The International Organisation of Vine and Wine (OIV) adopted practically the same definition of wine as that of the EU, namely ‘Wine is the beverage resulting exclusively from the partial or complete alcoholic fermentation of fresh grapes, whether crushed or not, or of grape must. Its actual alcohol content shall not be less than 8.5 % vol.’ The use of sucrose is therefore not in line with the OIV definition of wine either. Concerning the designation ‘fruit wine’ as a sale designation for alcoholic beverages made by alcoholic fermentation of fruit other than grapes, the Member of the Commission responsible for Agriculture published on 5 November 2007 a statement ensuring Member States that the Commission ‘will find a solution to allow fruit wines to continue to be marketed as they are now’.