or (c) processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject. Amendment 18 Article 5, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. Member States shall provide that personal data are processed only if: - competent authorities can demonstrate, on the basis of established facts, a clear need to process the personal data concerned for the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of a criminal offence, and - there are no other means having a less adverse effect on the data subject, and - the processing of the data is not excessive in relation to the offence concerned. Amendment 19 Article 6, paragraph 2, indent 1 - processing is provided for by a law and absolutely necessary for the fulfilment of the legitimate task of the authority concerned for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or if the data subject has given his or her explicit consent to the processing, and - processing is provided for by a law and absolutely necessary for the fulfilment of the legitimate task of the authority concerned for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences and is limited to a particular inquiry or if the data subject has given his or her explicit consent to the processing, provided that the processing is carried out in the interest of the data subject and the data subject would not suffer adverse consequences for refusing to grant consent; and Amendment 20 Article 6, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. Member States shall implement special technical and organisational requirements for the processing of sensitive data. Amendment 21 Article 6, paragraph 2 b (new) 2b. Member States shall provide for additional specific safeguards with regard to biometric data and DNA profiles, with a view to ensuring that: - biometric data and DNA profiles are used only on the basis of well-established and interoperable technical standards; - the degree of accuracy of biometric data and DNA profiles is carefully taken into account and may be challenged by the data subject through readily available means; - the respect of the dignity and integrity of persons is fully ensured. Amendment 22 Article 7, paragraph 1 1. Member States shall provide that personal data shall be stored for no longer than necessary for the purpose for which it was collected, unless otherwise provided by national law . Personal data of persons referred to in Article 4(3) last indent shall be stored for only as long as is absolutely necessary for the purpose for which it was collected. 1. Member States shall provide that personal data shall be stored for no longer than necessary for the purpose for which it was collected or further processed, in accordance with Article 4(1)(e) and Article 4a. Personal data of persons referred to in Article 4(3) last indent shall be stored for only as long as is absolutely necessary for the purpose for which it was collected. Amendment 23 Article 7, paragraph 2 2. Member States shall provide for appropriate procedural and technical measures ensuring that time limits for