trade unionists or members of the One Million Signatures Campaign for women's rights, risk persecution, Q. whereas members of ethnic and religious minorities, such as Azeris, Sufis and Sunnis, continue to face repression of their cultural and civil rights; whereas members of certain minorities, such as Ahwasis, Kurds, Baluchs or Baha'is, even face torture and execution, On the nuclear issue: 1. Welcomes the agreement between the IAEA and Iran on a 'work plan' to clarify all outstanding questions on Iran's nuclear programme as a chance for de-escalation if the undertaking is honoured; 2. Considers that the conclusions of the National Intelligence Estimates rule out any immediate military threat scenario/use of force scenario and calls on the EU Member States with seats on the Security Council to refer the Iran issue back for negotiations in the NPT framework; 3. Fully endorses the European Council's position reaffirming full and unequivocal support for efforts to find a negotiated long-term solution to the Iranian nuclear issue and expresses its support for IAEA Director-General Mohamed ElBaradei's efforts to solve all outstanding issues with Iran by March 2008; 4. Calls on Iran to honour its undertaking to provide answers to the outstanding questions as established by the IAEA before March 2008; 5. Reiterates its call to the Iranian Parliament and Government to ratify and implement the Additional Protocol and to fully implement the provisions of the Comprehensive Safeguard Agreement; 6. Believes that Iran's legitimate security concerns can best be met in direct talks between the parties concerned and welcomes all diplomatic and economic regional or bilateral initiatives to this end; 7. Calls on the Iranian Government to declare publicly that Iran has no intention of threatening the territorial integrity of any country, including Israel; 8. Calls on the Council, represented by the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, Javier Solana, to resume negotiations with Iran and considers that the proposals put forward by Javier Solana on 6 June 2006 could represent a viable basis if used for talks with no prior conditions attached; 9. Reiterates its general opposition to the use of nuclear energy because of its inherent severe risks, the insoluble waste problem, high costs and the intrinsic link to nuclear weapons; 10. Expresses, in view of the inherent dual-use options of nuclear technology for military and civil purposes, its grave concern at President Sarkozy's recent nuclear proliferation policy; 11. Calls on Iran, and those countries in the Middle East which are considering investing in nuclear power, not to repeat the error made by many EU Member States of favouring a dangerous and outdated technology; instead appeals to those countries to develop all the options offered by modern renewable energy technologies, energy efficiency and conservation methods; 12. Reiterates its call on all nuclear weapons states to make progressive steps to reduce nuclear warhead numbers, to phase out the role of nuclear weapons in security policy and support a nuclear weapon-free zone comprising Europe and the Middle East; 13. Supports, pending full abandonment of nuclear technology, initiatives, such as those proposed by the High-Level Panel