Regulation The new Financial Regulation contains a specific title while ruling the scope, the awarding procedure, the payment and the implementation provisions of grants financed by the budget (title VI, articles 108 to 110 and articles 162 to 168 of the implementing rules). Article 110, paragraph 1 Grants shall be subject to an annual programme, to be published at the start of the year, with the exception of crisis management aid and humanitarian aid operations. This work programme shall be implemented through the publication of calls for proposals save in duly substantiated exceptional cases of urgency or where the characteristics of the beneficiary leave no other choice for a given action of the Financial Regulation foresees that all types of grants are submitted to the rule of call for proposals 'save in duly substantiated exceptional cases of urgency or where the characteristics of the beneficiary leave no other choice for a given action'. Article 168, paragraph 1 Grants may be awarded without a call for proposals only in the following cases: (a) for the purposes of humanitarian aid, within the meaning of Council Regulation No 1257/96 and aid for crisis situations within the meaning of paragraph 2; (b) in other exceptional and duly substantiated emergencies; (c) to bodies with a de jure or de facto monopoly, duly substantiated in the Commission's award decision; (d) to bodies identified by a basic act as recipients of a grant. of the implementing rules clarifies the exceptions and in particular the case of organisations identified in a special legal act. The rapporteur recalls that these provisions directly result from the negotiations with the Commission and the Council on the Financial Regulation. In fact, the Commission proposals legitimate specific and limited exceptions to the general rules of the Financial Regulation. As a consequence, differentiated awarding conditions are set up between three groups of 'bodies' who may be eligible for a subsidy according to different awarding procedures as described below: Group 1 : organisations pre-assigned in the legal act itself for the support of operating grants: awarded without a call for proposals on the condition that it respects the criteria laid down in the annex of the regulation and general principles of the Financial Regulation (case of the College of Bruges). Group 2 : the general rule is the call for proposals . However two exceptions are admitted in the field of culture and citizenship only (Com (2003) 275 and Com (2003) 276). Operating grants, allocated to beneficiaries explicitly named in the budget remarks of budget lines entirely pre-assigned, can be allocated without a call for proposals in accordance with the criteria laid down in the annex (former budget lines A-3021, A-3026 and A-3042). Group 3 : organisations eligible for a EU subsidy on a specific activity awarded with a call for proposals in accordance with the overall criteria laid down in the annex (other cases). Not all of the seven basic acts contain the three strands. The conditions for the call for tender are defined in the annex of each of the seven proposals for regulation. The