the regulators seemed complacent about its position (reflected in ... being reduced to a rating of 4, which meant that there would be no requirement for scrutiny to be completed earlier than within 9 months)". (Ch.16-191 and192) " On 17 November 1997, the National Health Service executive wrote to DTI asking about the suitability of the Society to be their AVC provider . An internal memo about the request noted that the Society's RMM cover for the 1996 returns was 2.53x and 2.07x without the implicit item. In a handwritten note ... the line supervisor noted that they had referred to the strong solvency cover of another well-known company in reply to a similar recent request but that the Society's cover “isn't that hot”. Having considered the appropriate response , the reply to the NHS, dated 26 November 1997, stated that, based upon the 1996 returns: “we would say that the company is financially sound. There are no outstanding issues of a material nature pertaining to the DTI's regulation of [the Society or its subsidiaries].” There is no reason to view this statement as other than honest and it is clear that some consideration was given to the reply but as an honest assessment it reflected the poor understanding of the realistic financial position of the Society that DTI had at November 1997 ." (Ch.16-226) "The 1996 scrutiny report suggested, for the first time in a scrutiny report, that it would be “desirable” for the Society to hold back more of its emerging surplus by declaring lower guaranteed bonuses, while keeping up generous final bonus payouts, as long as expectations were not raised. The picture that emerges is of a very incomplete understanding of the statutory requirement and a narrow approach to the assessment of PRE. This was the first scrutiny report to have a specific heading entitled PRE (within the bonus section). Despite this, there seems still to have been no system in place (nor any in contemplation) by which PRE might have been actively assessed. The correspondence which followed the scrutiny ... appears ... to show that whilst GAD were becoming increasingly concerned about the Society's vulnerability, bonus notices and PRE ... they viewed their remit in this area as limited to one in which they sought and received reassurance from the Society that they were alive to the problems ." (Ch.16-247 and 248) In January 1999 "there appears to have been a lack of enthusiasm for positive intervention, and preference for advice and warning of the possibility of action failing remedial steps by the Society. The briefing note for the 15 December 1998 meeting had painted a picture of a company that could not afford to declare a bonus and it had been concluded at the meeting itself that there was power under the sound and prudent management umbrella to prevent such a declaration. With intervention as a last resort ... passing a bonus was "probably necessary for the prudent management of the Society”. In any case, FSA did not insist ." (Ch.17-110) "(EL) Headdon's self-indulgent interpretation of “a