contribution to the Generation IV International Forum R&D initiative, in which the best research organisations in the world are involved; Nuclear Safety, in research on existing fuel cycles , on reactor safety of both Western and Russian reactor types and to a greater extent, research on new fuel cycles as well as on new reactor design. In addition the JRC will contribute and co-ordinate the European contribution to the Generation IV International Forum R&D initiative, in which the best research organisations in the world are involved; the JRC shall be the integrator of the European research in this area and ensure both in quality and size the significance of the European contribution to GIF. Justification Although it is necessary to continue research into existing Western or Russian reactors, attention must be drawn to the many commendable projects to improve facilities which have been developed in the EU under cooperation programmes such as PHARE and TACIS. Accordingly, while continuity of existing research should be encouraged, special attention should be paid to new reactor systems so as to move ahead with their development and application. .. GIF is a huge technological initiative to which all major world-wide actors are contributing. It is thus necessary that the participation of European Countries is ensured at the Community level and the JRC appears as the appropriate body to implement such an integration. Amendment 24 Annex I, subtitle "Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre", subtitle "Activities", paragraphs 3 a and 3 b (new) Campaigning to make politicians and the public understand nuclear energy now that most scientists, politicians and citizens are convinced that global warming is real and caused by fossil-fuel carbon emissions, and that nuclear power is an essential component of the energy mix available to meet the world's energy needs with zero carbon dioxide emissions. Disseminating information about nuclear power to citizens and their representatives through the launching of multi-annual information campaigns on nuclear power to encourage debate and facilitate decision-making, thereby enabling them to have an objective debate based on facts and take informed decisions. To ensure that they are as effective as possible, these campaigns should be drawn up using methodology derived from the social sciences. Furthermore, and bearing in mind that comparisons with other energy sources are essential in order to grasp the implications of the use of nuclear power, any information campaigns which are promoted or encouraged will also mention and explain the efforts being made by the EU at other levels to promote other energy sources, with particular regard to renewable sources of energy.. Justification It is essential that the general public understands the benefits from a safe use of nuclear power. This campaign should build upon the fact that many environmentalists now embrace nuclear power. Greenpeace co-founder, Patrick Moore, declared: "Nuclear energy is the only non-greenhouse-gas-emitting power source that can effectively replace fossil fuels and satisfy global demand". This amendment seeks to simplify the ideas contained in the rapporteur’s amendment 9. The second paragraph seeks to highlight the major efforts being made by the European Union to promote and