Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (27 November 2008) The Commission is aware of reports criticising the detention conditions in detention centres in Greece. In accordance with the recently agreed directive of the Parliament and of the Council on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals COM(2005)391 final. Following political acceptance by Council on 5 June 2008 and formal approval of the directive by the Parliament on 18 June 2008, formal adoption and entry into force of the directive can be expected before the end of 2008. , third‑country nationals in detention should be treated in a humane and dignified manner with respect for their fundamental rights and in compliance with international and national law. Articles 16 and 17 of this directive contain several specific safeguards which Member States will have to respect once the two-year deadline for the transposition of this directive into national law will have been expired. Although at this point in time it is not possible to start formal infringement procedures against Member States for non-compliance with these provisions, the Commission is of the view that all Member States should assure compliance with these standards as quickly as possible. In this respect, according to the information available to the Commission, the infrastructure and conditions of the Mytilini detention centre may indeed require improvement in order to meet the directive standards. As far as Community funding for the operation and amelioration of detention centres is concerned, the attention of the Honourable Member is drawn to the answer already provided for to Written Question E‑5063/08 by Ms Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB/home.jsp to the Commission. It is also relevant in this context to add that the Greek authorities have requested emergency funding from the European Refugee Fund in order to improve the situation in some of the reception centres for asylum-seekers, including in Lesvos. The Commission is currently examining the request for emergency funding.