WRITTEN QUESTION E-4695/06 by Bart Staes (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (31 October 2006) Subject: Human rights situation in Chile In its answer to Question E‑3332/05 the Commission claims that since 1990 the Chilean authorities have been making efforts to improve the situation of the Mapuche community(ies). The Commission concludes by stating that it will monitor the human rights situation very closely. Article 1 of the association agreement with Chile stipulates that ‘respect for democratic principles and fundamental human rights (…) constitutes an essential element of this agreement’. The strategy paper for the period 2002‑06 in turn finds no evidence of systematic violations of those fundamental rights by representatives of the State, although accusations of mistreatment and the unauthorised use of force continue to be made against individual police officers and prison guards. At first sight at least, the case of Waikilaf Cadin Calfunao would seem to fall into the latter category. According to the information I have received, on 17 August 2006 he was arrested following a dispute between his community (Juan Paillalef) and the electricity company Frontel about the siting of high-tension masts. He was taken to the prison in Temuco, an institution which became the focus of international attention in mid‑2006 when four members of the Mapuche community convicted under Chile's anti-terrorism law conducted a hunger strike. In the prison he was repeatedly mistreated by guards and by fellow prisoners, some acting on the instructions of the guards. Although Calfunao has apparently now been moved to another prison (Santiago), reports about his condition from a number of sources continue to give cause for concern. Is the Commission aware of this unfortunate case? What action has it taken in the meantime, and will it raise this case in particular and the situation with regard to human rights and the rights of the Mapuche community in Chile in general at the first EU‑Chile meeting with representatives of civil society, to be held on 28 November 2006 in Santiago de Chile? If not, why not? If the answer is yes, is it prepared to give details of the outcome of those talks and carry out a fresh assessment of the situation with regard to respect for human rights in Chile?