Answer given by Mr De Gucht on behalf of the Commission (13 September 2010) The Commission would like to point out that the issue of euro banknotes is the joint responsibility of the European Central Bank (ECB) and of the National Central Banks (NCBs). Pursuant to Article 128(1) of the TFEU and Article 16 of the European System of Central Banks/ECB Statute, the ECB has the exclusive right to authorise the issue of euro banknotes within the eurozone, both the ECB and the NCBs issuing such notes. The Commission would like to clarify that procurement procedures organised by the ECB are not governed by the EU public procurement directives Directive 2004/18/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts and Directive 2004/17/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, OJ L 134, 30.4.2004. , but by the ECB's own procurement rules ECB Decision ECB/2007/5. . However, the EU public procurement directives are applicable to the procurement procedures organised by the NCBs. The Commission would like to point out that the provisions of the public procurement Directive 2004/18/EC permit contracting authorities (such as the NCBs) to sanction during the procurement process non-compliance of economic operators with certain social standards, such as those prohibiting child labour. First of all, during the selection stage, on the basis of Article 45(2) of Directive 2004/18/EC, contracting authorities may exclude from the procurement procedure any economic operator that ‘has been guilty of grave professional misconduct proven by any means which the contracting authorities can demonstrate’. The use by an economic operator in its production process of raw materials (such as paper or textiles) involving child labour along its supply chain may be considered to be grave misconduct, liable to lead to the exclusion of that economic operator from the procurement procedure. Secondly, Directive 2004/18/EC also permits contracting authorities to include in the procurement contract a requirement imposing the contractor to guarantee that the supplies (such as paper, textiles) used for the execution of the procurement contract have been produced in compliance with certain social standards, in particular without the involvement of any child labour during the supply chain. The contractor may prove compliance with such contract performance clauses by labels or alternative means of proof. The Commission is also currently finalising a Guide on taking account of social considerations in public procurement, which will further explain the possibilities given by the EU public procurement directives to take into account social considerations in public procurement, including the prohibition of any child labour in the supply chain of the contract. The Guide is planned to be published on the Commission's website in autumn 2010.