to continue towards the goal of a genuine, integrated transatlantic market by 2015, the achievement of which will be a central means of relaunching economic growth and recovery, F. whereas it is important that the role of legislators is duly reflected in the TEC process and that the priorities of the European Parliament are adequately taken into account, G. whereas the good cooperation between the EU and US in the field of civil aviation may be jeopardised, in the light of recent initiatives on inspections of foreign repair stations, antitrust exemptions and air carrier citizenship, H. whereas the EU and the US will be confronted with rising global energy consumption and the requirement to implement global commitments to combat climate change to be agreed in Copenhagen, and whereas the new standards and measures to increase energy efficiency should neither create new obstacles to transatlantic trade nor reduce the security and safety of fissile material, I. whereas the financial and economic crisis has rapidly turned into a jobs crisis with severe social consequences, and whereas the transatlantic partners share responsibility for tackling the social dimension of the economic crisis, J. whereas recent surveys, such as the Transatlantic Trends 2009 of the German Marshall Funds, show unprecedented popular support among EU citizens for the US administration, which provides a basis for a revitalisation of EU-US relations, EU-US Summit 1. Reaffirms that EU-US relations are the most important strategic partnership for the EU and insists on the importance of the EU and the US Administration's intensifying their strategic dialogue, cooperation and coordination when dealing with global challenges and regional conflicts; calls on the Commission to submit, after the Summit, a communication on a strategic EU-US partnership; 2. Insists that once the Lisbon Treaty enters into effect, the institutional mechanisms of EU-US relations should be strengthened in line with its Resolution of 26 March 2009; 3. Calls on the EU and the US to agree at the forthcoming Summit on a reinforced transatlantic partnership to deal with common global challenges, in particular with regard to non-proliferation and disarmament, counterterrorism, climate change, respect for human rights, facing pandemics and achieving the Millennium Development Goals; 4. Underlines the importance of NATO as the cornerstone of transatlantic security; considers that relevant developments in this wider security structure should be addressed in dialogue with Russia, the United States and the non-EU OSCE Member States in order to renew the transatlantic consensus on security; 5. Welcomes in this connection the decision of the Russian Federation and the US to conduct negotiations to conclude a new comprehensive legally binding agreement to replace the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (START), which expires in December 2009, and the signature of the 'Joint understanding for a follow-on agreement to START-1' by Presidents Barack Obama and Dmitri Medvedev in Moscow on 6 July 2009; 6. Welcomes the announcement by the US President that he will take forward the ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT); calls on the Council to contribute positively and proactively to the preparations for the next NPT review conference in 2010, in