it] was not clearly spelled out what ... policyholders were foregoing by voting for the [scheme] " (WE 29 Page 6. ). Mr SCAWEN also claims that the full state of the Society's finances had not been disclosed. Otherwise, with-profits annuitants would " surely not have accepted the offer " (WE 23 Page 19. ). EMAG criticised that " the Compromise documentation did not address the over-bonusing, the benefit derived from it by GAR policyholders, the unfair nature of the 16% policy value cut to non GAR policyholders [and] the possibility of a compensating adjustment in favour of non-GAR policyholders " (WE-CONF 16). Moreover, EMAG comments in detail on the second cut in policy values of 15 April 2002, which more than eliminated the uplift credited to non-GAR policyholders. As stated above, ELAS argued that this had become necessary due to " market movements ". EMAG contends that the market fell by about 6% (equivalent to a 3% fall in Equitable Life's asset values) between July 2001, when the 16% cut was introduced, and April 2002, when the second cut was made. However, " all of this fall happened before the Compromise Scheme was published in December 2001 [and] there was no further significant market fall before the policy value cut in April 2002 " (WE-CONF 16). EMAG considers that by failing to explain to non-GAR policyholders that, without an immediate surge in the stock market, a further policy value cut would be required, ELAS may have deliberately misled policyholders. In contrast, Mr. THOMSON insisted in H8 " that the markets carried on falling after the Compromise Scheme was through in February 2002 and the board had no choice but to reflect those changes in market values in the non-guaranteed benefits ." Mr BOSWOOD (WE 76 Page 4. ) agrees with EMAG's assessment and suggests that " this is something which ought to have been mentioned to those, including the court, from which approval for the scheme was sought ". He thus thinks it is possible that " those responsible deliberately concealed information which they knew to be relevant to the scheme ". In view of the above, EMAG asked the FSA to investigate the issue. The latter however refused to do so with reference to its discretion (WE-CONF 16). Mr THOMSON responded to allegations that the compromise documentation had been inadequate by underlining that the scheme was sanctioned by the High Court. He quoted the judge as follows (H8): " I am in no doubt that it is a scheme such as an intelligent and honest man, a member of the class concerned and acting in respect of his interest, might reasonably approve. I am also satisfied that neither on account of any inadequacy of information or otherwise in the procedure, nor in respect of any of the substantive points made to me, is there the slightest reason to suppose that it is not a proper scheme which having been approved by the requisite majorities of the various classes ought to be sanctioned by the Court. I will so order. "