countries, and more particularly with the accession candidate countries, thus contributing towards interoperability, the operational reliability and dependability of the electricity grids or the supply of electricity to the European Community. (m) Actions for improving the functioning of the interconnected electricity networks within the internal market and, in particular, identifying the bottlenecks and missing links, developing solutions in order to deal with congestion and adapting the methods of forecasting and of operating electricity networks. GAS NETWORKS (e) Introducing natural gas into new regions, mainly island, isolated, peripheral and ultraperipheral regions and developing gas networks in these regions. (f) Developing gas connections in order to meet the needs of the internal market or strengthen the security of supply, including connection of separate gas networks. (g) Developing capacities for receiving liquefied natural gas (LNG) and for storage of natural gas, needed in order to meet demand, control gas supply systems, and diversify sources and supply routes. (h) Developing gas transport capacity (gas supply pipelines) needed in order to meet demand and diversify supplies from internal and external sources, as well as supply routes. (n) Actions for improving the funtioning of the interconnected gas networks within the internal market and, in particular, identifying the bottlenecks and missing links, developing solutions in order to deal with congestion and adapting methods of forecasting and of operating gas networks. ANNEX III TRANS-EUROPEAN ENERGY NETWORKS pecifications of projects of common interest * This list has been established on the basis of projects communicated to the Commission by the Member States and the operators concerned. ELECTRICITY NETWORKS Projet (a) Developing electricity networks in island, isolated, peripheral and ultraperipheral regions while promoting the diversification of energy sources and enhancing the use of renewable energies, and connection of the electricity networks of those regions, if appropriate. Specifications: a02 IRELAND – UNITED KINGDOM (Wales) Connection by submarine cable between the network of Ireland and the network of the United Kingdom (Wales). a04 GREECE – ITALY Connection by submarine cable between the Greek network and the Italian network: Ipiros - Puglia link (strengthening of existing connection) a09 GREECE Connections between the islands and between the islands and the mainland: Connection of the Southern Cyclades. a10 ULTRAPERIPHERAL REGIONS: FRANCE, SPAIN, PORTUGAL Connections in ultraperipheral regions. a11 ITALY (Sardinia) – FRANCE (Corsica) – ITALY (Mainland ) Connection by submarine cable between the network of Sardinia and the network of Italy (mainland). Strengthening the connection with Corsica. Project (b) Developing electricity connections between in the Member States needed for the functioning of the internal market and in order to ensure the reliability and dependability of the operation of electricity networks. Specifications: b04 FRANCE – BELGIUM – THE NETHERLANDS – GERMANY Moulaine (F) – Aubange (B) line. b05 FRANCE – GERMANY Vigy (F) – Marlenheim (F) line. Vigy (F) – Uchtelfangen (D) line. b06 FRANCE – ITALY Grand île – Piossasco line. La Praz (F) phase transformer. b07 FRANCE – SPAIN Cazaril – Aragón line or alternative route/layout, including connection to the Sallente – Sentmenat line. Pragneres (F) phase transformer. Eastern Pyrenees connection. b10 SPAIN – PORTUGAL Connections