WRITTEN QUESTION E-0954/07 by Péter Olajos (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (26 February 2007) Subject: The functioning of the Jaspers programme and the location of its regional offices In order to make more effective use of the grants and loans available from the Structural Funds and the European financial institutions (EIB, EIF, EBRD, CEB), the Commission (DG REG) launched the ‘3J’ programmes: Jaspers, Jeremie and Jessica. Of these, the Jaspers programme was explicitly launched to assist large projects undertaken by the Member States, exploiting the experience of the EIB and EBRD. I should appreciate it if the Commission would answer the following questions about the functioning of the programme: — In order to launch the Jaspers programme at national level, an action plan has to be submitted, on the basis of which the following year's operations are planned. On what basis does the Commission assess the national plans, how does it plan their monitoring and how successful, in the Commission's view, was cooperation with Member-State authorities for the purpose of assessing the action plans, bearing in mind that the Jaspers office submits the plan itself to the two places? — Lower limits have been imposed on the size of projects to be funded under the programme: EUR 25 million for environmental projects and EUR 50 million for transport projects and other SF-funded projects. In practice, are sets of projects accepted which attain these limits but consist of a number of smaller projects? — The centre for the northern region of the Jaspers programme is in Warsaw, while that for its southern region is in Bucharest. In other words, in both cases the regional centre is located in a Member State which is involved in the programme. On the other hand, the centre for the central region is in Vienna, despite the fact that Bratislava, Budapest or Prague would have been more suitable for the purpose, in the light of their geographical location and involvement in the programme. Why is the regional centre in Vienna, where innumerable institutions are already based, particularly bearing in mind how difficult it is to maintain the delicate balance of equality between the old and new Member States, which makes this decision difficult to endorse?