the Commission Amendment ( 8d ) The European Commission and Member States should take whatever measures are necessary to inform , and raise the awareness of , E U citizens as regards the implementation of this Directive. Appropriate information on the consequences of a failure to comply with road safety rules may thus have a deterrent effect upstream on the commission of road traffic offence s . . Justification Driver information is a key plank of road safety policy which must play a preventive and deterrent role as regards the commission of offences. Amendment 10 Proposal for a directive Recital 8 e (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment ( 8 e ) The Commission should focus in the future on facilitating cross-border enforcement of road traffic infringements, in particular those related to serious traffic accidents. Justification The current proposal only focuses on offences which, by and large, are of a relatively minor nature. The proposal should be widened to enable easier enforcement of incidents involving drivers where serious injury or damage is caused. Amendment 11 Proposal for a directive Article 2 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (a) "holder" means the holder of the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned; (a) "holder" means the holder of the registration certificate of the vehicle concerned, including motorcycles ; Amendment 12 Proposal for a directive Article 2 – point d Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (d) "competent authority" means the authority in charge of the national database on the registration documents for vehicles. (d) "competent authority" means a single contact point in each Member State responsible for facilitating the implementation of this Directive . Justification Amendment 13 Proposal for a directive Article 2 – point d a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (da) “central authority” means the authority responsible for ensuring data protection in each Member State; Justification Amendment 14 Proposal for a directive Article 2 – point d b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (db) “Final Administrative Decision” means any final decision requiring a financial penalty to be paid, other than a final decision falling within the definition of Article 1 of Framework Decision 2005/214/JHA; Justification Amendment 15 Proposal for a directive Article 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 2a EU-wide road safety guidelines 1. With a view to pursuing a road safety policy aiming for a high level of protection for all road users in the EU and taking into account the widely differing circumstances within the EU, Member States should act, without prejudice to more restrictive policies and laws, in order to provide for a minim um set of road safety guidelines in the scope of this Directive. To achieve that aim, the Commission, assisted by the Committee referred to in Article 8, shall adopt guidelines in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 8(3). The guidelines shall conform to the basic principles set out in the following paragraphs. 2. As regards speed, the use of automatic checking equipment on motorways, secondary roads, and urban