reasoning showing that the citizens' voice is heard and the possible action to be taken is seriously and thoroughly thought-out. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Recital 18 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (18) Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data is fully applicable to the processing of personal data carried out in application of this Regulation. In this respect, it is appropriate to clarify that the organiser of a citizens' initiative and the competent authorities of the Member States are the data controllers within the meaning of Directive 95/46/EC and to specify the maximum period within which the personal data collected for the purposes of a citizens' initiative may be retained. In their capacity as data controllers, organisers need to take all the appropriate measures to comply with the obligations imposed by Directive 95/46/EC, in particular those relating to the lawfulness of the processing, the security of the processing activities and the provision of information and the rights of data subject to access to his/her personal data as well as the correction and erasure of his/her personal data. (18) Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data is fully applicable to the processing of personal data carried out in application of this Regulation. In this respect, for the sake of legal certainty, it is appropriate to clarify that the organisers of a citizens' initiative and the competent authorities of the Member States are the data controllers within the meaning of Directive 95/46/EC and to specify the maximum period within which the personal data collected for the purposes of a citizens' initiative may be retained. In their capacity as data controllers, organisers need to take all the appropriate measures to comply with the obligations imposed by Directive 95/46/EC, in particular those relating to the lawfulness of the processing, the security of the processing activities and the provision of information and the rights of data subjects to have access to their personal data as well as to procure the correction and erasure of their personal data. Justification Amendment aimed to give reason for the enacting term. Linguistic changes in order to use gender neutral language. Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Recital 21 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (21) The Commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union for the purpose of amending the Annexes to this Regulation . (21) With a view to the possible need in the future to amend or supplement certain non-essential elements in the provisions of this Regulation or its annexes, the Commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Justification