in Cambodia and with the trafficking in human beings, both to and from Cambodia, with the objective of using them for forced labour, prostitution, begging and illegal adoptions; 3. Recalls the principles of the Charter of Human Rights and especially the rights of young girls, in the case of sexual exploitation of minors in Asia; 4. Condemns the sex tourism industry and requests that Member States create and apply the legislation needed to bring to justice all those involved in sex tourism; 5. Requests that countries where there is child prostitution support the human rights organisations working to help and protect the victims of sexual exploitation, as well as guarantee the safety of their workers; 6. Insists that the Commission take into account the rights of children in the programming of its human rights policy, within the framework of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights; 7. Requests that the Commission support the human rights activists organisations in Cambodia, and especially organisations dedicated to the protection of victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation; 8. Is confident of a positive and fair result from the Interministerial Committee which has just been set up; reiterates its request that the Cambodian authorities take all the necessary steps to bring an end to trafficking in women and child prostitution, as well as to bring to justice all those responsible for these kinds of activities; 9. Calls on the Cambodian authorities to guarantee the safety of child protection organisations, especially those working to help young victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation; 10. Calls on the Cambodian authorities to guarantee the safety of Somaly Mam, whose life is in danger; 11. Calls on the EU Member States to act together in the fight against organised crime and the trafficking in human beings, especially the trafficking of minors; 12. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the government of Cambodia, and the governments of the ASEAN member states.