both in terms of commitments and payments; 2. Considers the European Environment Agency as a source of important environmental information for all EU institutions and policy-making; notes with satisfaction that the Agency has been able to transform some complicated data into clear conclusions and to communicate them to the public; acknowledges, in particular, the importance of the report 'The European environment - State and outlook 2005' in providing user-friendly information on the environment and pinpointing the key challenges facing the EU and Member States; 3. Encourages the Agency to continue its efforts to further develop its communication methods in order to attract more media coverage for its findings and thus feed public debate on important environmental issues, such as climate change, biodiversity and the management of natural resources; 4. Points out that the impact of environmental programmes is often hampered by the lack of assessment of environmental impacts of other Community policies; invites the Agency to further develop its work in the field of environmental impact assessment; 5. Requests that, before 1 January 2010 and every five years thereafter, the Agency commission an independent external evaluation of its achievements on the basis of thefounding Regulation and the work programmes decided by the Management Board. The evaluation will assess the working practices and the impact of the Agency. The evaluation will take into account the views of the stakeholders, at both Community and national level. The Management Board of the Agency shall examine the conclusions of the evaluation and shall draft such recommendations to the Commission and the European Parliament as may be necessary regarding changes in the Agency, its working practices and programmes. The evaluation and the recommendations to the Commission and the European Parliament shall be made public, for example on their websites. The funds needed to carry out the external evaluation shall be allocated through the budget of the corresponding DG; 6. Emphasises the role of the EEA in the evaluation of the implementation of EU environmental legislation; 7. On the basis of the data available, is of the opinion that the Executive Director of the European Environmental Agency can be granted discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the EEA for the financial year 2005. PROCEDURE Title Discharge for the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 2005 Procedure number 2006/2158(DEC) Committee responsible CONT Opinion by Date announced in plenary ENVI 29.11.2006 Enhanced cooperation – date announced in plenary Draftswoman Date appointed Jutta Haug 14.9.2006 Previous drafts(wo)man Discussed in committee 22.1.2007 Date adopted 27.2.2007 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 48 1 Members present for the final vote Adamos Adamou, Georgs Andrejevs, Pilar Ayuso, Irena Belohorská, Johannes Blokland, John Bowis, Frieda Brepoels, Hiltrud Breyer, Martin Callanan, Chris Davies, Avril Doyle, Mojca Drčar Murko, Jill Evans, Anne Ferreira, Karl-Heinz Florenz, Matthias Groote, Françoise Grossetête, Satu Hassi, Jens Holm, Dan Jørgensen, Christa Klaß, Holger Krahmer, Urszula Krupa, Jules Maaten, Linda McAvan, Alexandru-Ioan Morţun, Roberto Musacchio, Riitta Myller, Péter Olajos, Antonyia Parvanova, Frédérique Ries, Guido Sacconi, Daciana Octavia Sârbu, Karin Scheele, Carl