the allocation of EU funding pursue different objectives and are not linked. The fact that a company has received subsidies has no bearing on the amount of the fine that could, or should, be imposed on this company for a cartel violation. 8. There are three main entry points if someone wishes to report a suspected cartel to the Commission: First, end consumers and customers can contact the Consumer Liaison Office in the Commission’s Directorate-General for Competition to report suspected competition problems by filling in an online form on the Commission’s competition website http://ec.europa.eu/competition/consumers/liaison_en.html . Second, companies currently or formerly involved in a cartel may report such cartel behaviour and obtain immunity from the fine or a reduction of the fine under the Commission's leniency program. They should contact the Commission’s Directorate-General for Competition through its dedicated leniency fax (+32 2 299 45 85) or its dedicated leniency hotline (+32 2 298 41 90 or +32 2 298 41 91). Further information is published on the Commission’s competition website http://ec.europa.eu/competition/cartels/leniency/leniency.html . Current or former employees of companies that would like to report cartel behaviour without informing their companies may also use these numbers. All applications are treated in strictest confidence. Finally, there is the possibility to launch a formal complaint with the Commission. Further guidance on how to launch a formal complaint is given on the Commission’s competition website http://ec.europa.eu/competition/antitrust/legislation/complaints.html . 9. The Commission is not aware of any such study. Regarding the impact of cartel fines on the level of prices, it should be noted that the termination of a cartel leads to the re-establishment of competition and hence competitive prices. It is therefore unlikely that companies would be able to pass cartel fines on to consumers. Even assuming that some degree of ‘passing on’ would take place, the benefits of a competitive market for consumers would by far outweigh any such passing on costs.