their rights throughout the Union; insists on the need to improve cooperation among legal professionals and the exchange of best practices in the fight against discrimination and gender violence, and to find ways of eliminating obstacles to the recognition of legal acts in other Member States, including sentences for gender-violence offences and injunctions against violent men; 21. Welcomes the fact that courts have been set up in some Member States to deal with violence against women, and calls on all Member States to take this initiative further; 22. Calls for records concerning gender-based violence to play a central role within the European Criminal Records Information System (ECRIS); 23. Urges the Member States to introduce a coherent system for collecting statistics on violence against women, with particular reference to violence against minors, and including murders committed in the context of violence within the family or close relationships, in close cooperation with the European Institute for Gender Equality in order to obtain comparable data concerning violence against women throughout the EU; 24. Urges the Member States to recognise sexual violence and rape against women, including within marriage and intimate informal relationships and/or where committed by male relatives, as a crime in cases where the victim did not give consent, and to ensure that such offences result in automatic prosecution and reject any reference to cultural, traditional or religious practices or traditions as a mitigating factor in cases of violence against women, including so-called 'crimes of honour' and female genital mutilation; 25. Notes that some Member States have been implementing policies aimed at recognising sexual violence between partners, and specifically marital violence, as a crime; calls on the Member States to study the outcome of those policies with a view to encouraging a Europe-wide exchange of good practice; 26. Calls on the Member States to take appropriate measures to stop female genital mutilation; points out that immigrants residing in the Community should be aware that female genital mutilation is a serious assault on women's health and a violation of human rights; calls on Member States either to implement specific legal provisions on female genital mutilation or to adopt such laws and prosecute all persons who conduct genital mutilation; 27. Calls on the EU to guarantee the right to assistance and support for all victims of male violence against women; 28. Urges the Member States to investigate without delay the extreme human rights abuses against Roma women, penalise the perpetrators and provide adequate compensation to victims of forced sterilisation; 29. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments of the Member States and the UN Secretary-General.