they shall ensure that, by that date, the social partners introduce the required provisions by way of agreement. The Member States shall take the necessary steps enabling them at all times to guarantee the results imposed by this Directive. They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof. 2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 , the Member States may be granted, where necessary, an extension of 60 months starting on 1 July 2008 in order to achieve the objective referred to in Articles 4 and 5. Any Member State wishing to be granted that extension shall inform the Commission accordingly, indicating the provisions and schemes concerned and the specific reasons for the extension. 3. When they are adopted by Member States, these measures shall contain a reference to this Directive or shall be accompanied by such reference on the occasion of their official publication. The methods of making such reference shall be laid down by the Member States. 4. The Member States shall inform the Commission of the measures taken in order to implement the provisions of Article 5. Article 9 Report 1. Every five years after 1 July 2008, the Commission shall draw up a report for submission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the basis of the information provided by the Member States. That report shall contain an assessment of employers" willingness to offer a supplementary pension scheme following the entry into force of this Directive . 2. The report shall include a proposal on how, when vested pension rights are transferred, the undertaking's liability for such rights can be excluded. 3. No later than ... * Five years after the entry into force of this Directive . , the Commission shall draw up a report, in particular with regard to the conditions of transferring capital representing workers" supplementary pension rights. On the basis of that report, the Commission shall present any proposal containing amendments to this Directive or other instruments which prove necessary in order further to reduce the obstacles to the mobility of workers created by certain rules on supplementary pension provision. Article 10 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 11 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States. Done at ..., For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President