Question for written answer E-8979/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Ioannis A. Tsoukalas (PPE) (28 October 2010) Subject: EU lagging behind in the field of supercomputers Supercomputers are extremely powerful computers that are used for a wide range of scientific and industrial applications that require significant processing capacity, such as weather forecasting and climate change research, scientific research and simulations in the areas of physics, chemistry, biology, astrophysics, nuclear technology, the analysis of geological data, aircraft design, etc. Supercomputers are thus essential tools underpinning research and technological and industrial development. At world level, the US and China have shown a marked interest in promoting a new generation of supercomputers — exaflop systems that will be 1 000 times more powerful than today's petaflop systems. In contrast, the EU does not appear to be making much progress in this area. The speed of supercomputers rose by 3 065 % in Europe between 2000 and 2010, against increases of 49 617 % in the US and 2 992 530 % in China over the same period. In June 2010 Commissioner Kroes welcomed the launching of the PRACE initiative (Partnership for Advanced Computing in Europe), with the participation of the Commission and 20 European countries, which will enable researchers to use high-speed computers in other countries and perform up to a quadrillion operations per second as part of their research programmes. Can the Commission provide the following information: — What stage has been reached in implementing the PRACE initiative bearing in mind that, according to the Commission communication, researchers should have been able to make full use of it as from 1 August 2010? — What is the EU's position in the field of supercomputers by comparison with the US and China? — What strategy does Europe have in relation to supercomputers, which are a vital element in promoting high-level research in the EU? What steps will be taken both as part of the PRACE initiative and independently of it? — Has any other European funding been earmarked for this area in addition to the EUR 70 million set aside for the PRACE initiative?