websites. Amendment 98 Proposal for a regulation Article 16 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The competent authority of the home Member State may charge a registration fee to the credit rating agency. The registration fee shall be proportionate to the cost of the procedures in that Member State . The CESR may charge a registration fee to the credit rating agency. The registration fee shall be proportionate to the cost of the procedures. Amendment 99 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 1 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The competent authority of the home Member State shall withdraw the registration of a credit rating agency where the credit rating agency: 1. The CESR shall withdraw the registration of a credit rating agency where the credit rating agency: Amendment 100 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 1 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (a) expressly renounces the registration or has provided no credit ratings for the preceding six months; deleted Justification Simplification. Amendment 101 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The competent authorities of the home Member State of the credit rating agencies belonging to a group shall closely cooperate with each other. They shall carry out a joint assessment coordinated by the facilitator. They shall reach an agreement on the necessity to withdraw the registration. The competent authority of each home Member State shall take its decision on the basis of the agreement. deleted Amendment 102 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. CESR or a competent authority from another Member State , in which the credit ratings issued by the credit rating agency concerned are used, may request the competent authority of the home Member State to examine whether the conditions for withdrawal of registration are met. In case the competent authority of the home Member State decides not to withdraw the registration of the credit rating agency concerned, it shall motivate its decision . 3. The CESR may be asked by the Member States' competent authorit ies to examine whether the conditions for withdrawal of registration are met. In the event that the CESR decides not to withdraw the registration of the credit rating agency concerned, it shall provide reasons therefor . Amendment 103 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 4 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The competent authority of the home Member State shall notify the European Commission , CESR and the other competent authorities of the withdrawal of the registration, which shall take immediate effect throughout the Community. 4. The CESR shall notify the Commission and the Member States' competent authorities of the withdrawal of the registration, which shall take immediate effect throughout the Community. Amendment 104 Proposal for a regulation Article 17 – paragraph 4 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The European Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union an updated