air-conditioning, refrigeration and heat-pump systems based on an assessment of alternative technologies with lower total (direct and indirect) greenhouse gas emissions. 3 . Within five years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council based on the experience gained from the application of this Regulation. In particular, the report shall: – assess the impact of relevant provisions on emissions and projected emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases and examine the cost-effectiveness of these provisions; – evaluate the training and certification programmes established by Member States under Article 6 (1); – assess the need for European Community standards relating to the control of emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases from equipment, including technical requirements with respect to the design of products and equipment; – assess the need for the development and dissemination of notes describing best available techniques and best environmental practices concerning the prevention and minimisation of emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases; – include an overall summary of the development of the state of technology, experience gained, environmental requirements and any impacts on the functioning of the internal market; – examine whether the rules and objectives set out in Article 5 concerning recovery, reclamation or destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases have been complied with and achieved, and assess whether existing definitions, requirements and authorisation procedures for cross-border transport of fluorinated greenhouse gases for recovery or thermal recycling require revision. 4. The report shall, where necessary, be accompanied by proposals for revision of the relevant provisions of this Regulation , and for any modifications to Directive 2001/56/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2001 relating to heating systems for motor vehicles and their trailers OJ L 292, 9.11.2001, p. 21. to take account of necessary control procedures for the measurement of the rate of leakage from vehicle air-conditioning systems . Article 15 Committee on fluorinated greenhouse gases 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a standing committee on fluorinated greenhouse gases. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 4 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to Article 7 and Article 8 thereof. 3. The period provided for in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at one month. Article 16 Committee on the recognition of professional qualifications 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee on the recognition of professional qualifications. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to Article 8 thereof. The period provided for in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be two months. 3. The Committee may be asked to give its opinion on any other matter relating to implementation of this Regulation. 4. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. Article 17 Sanctions 1. Member States shall lay down rules on sanctions applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that such rules are implemented. The sanctions provided for shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. 2.