account Article 9(1), the registered office of an SPE may be transferred to another Member State , where it effectively carries out its economic activity, in accordance with this Chapter. Justification Article 35 needs to be in line with Article 9(1). Amendment 53 Proposal for a regulation Article 35 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The transfer of the registered office of an SPE shall be preceded by issuing a transfer plan, which shall be based on economic and legal grounds and shall be tax neutral. Justification It is important to clarify that the transfer of seat of a SPE should be a decision based on economic and legal grounds and not with the purpose to avoid taxation. Amendment 54 Proposal for a regulation Article 36 – paragraph 1 – point b a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (ba) a tax neutral transfer plan setting out the economic and legal grounds for the transfer proposal; Justification The decision to transfer the seat of the company should be taken primarily on economic and legal grounds – and not for opportunistic reasons – therefore such aspects should be set out clearly and prior to the decision procedure. Amendment 55 Proposal for a regulation Article 36 – paragraph 2 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) disclose the transfer proposal. (b) disclose the transfer proposal including the transfer plan referred to in paragraph 1(ba) . Justification The disclosure of the transfer proposal should include the transfer plan to be meaningful. Amendment 56 Proposal for a regulation Article 36 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The transfer proposal, including the transfer plan, shall be disclosed in the database referred to in Article 4c and on the SPE's website. Justification It is important to guarantee disclosure at European level of information concerning the SPEs established in the EU. Amendment 57 Proposal for a regulation Article 36 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The management body of the SPE shall draw up a report to the shareholders explaining and justifying the legal and economic aspects of the proposed transfer and setting out the implications of the transfer for shareholders, creditors and employees. The report shall be submitted to the shareholders and the employee representatives, or where there are no such representatives, to the employees themselves together with the transfer proposal. 3. The management body of the SPE shall draw up a report to the shareholders explaining and justifying the legal and economic aspects of the proposed transfer and setting out the implications of the transfer for shareholders, creditors , employees and the local community . The report shall be submitted to the shareholders and the employee representatives, or where there are no such representatives, to the employees themselves together with the transfer proposal. Justification The report should also cover implication for the local community. Amendment 58 Proposal for a regulation Article 37 – paragraph 7 a (new) Text proposed by