to EUR 1 million in commitments and EUR 22,7 million in payments, and for preparatory actions EUR 3,3 million and EUR 47 million respectively. The rapporteur emphasises that the Commission's working document should contain a clear analysis of how the previous projects have either been integrated into the new legislation that will come on stream as of 2007 or if any of them are simply proposed to be discontinued completely. In any case, the minimal commitments suggested in the PDB leave a large margin for the Parliament to intervene. on research, innovation and energy "You see things: and you say "why?" But I dream things that never were; and I say "why not?", George Bernard Shaw Introduction 1. This working document analyses the financial resources that the European Union provides for research and innovation. It will also focus on energy as this subject matter per its nature is not only linked to other important policy areas such as external relations but is also strongly affected by technological development. 2. The present document will look at the challenges the European Union faces in these policy areas. In this light the implications for the 2007 budget procedure will be examined bearing in mind that it will be the first year of spending within the new 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework (MFF) and therefore only the beginning of a number of new programmes. The rapporteur wishes to highlight at the outset that resources available for research are not what they might have been. The original Commission proposal for the 7th Framework Programme for Research (FP7) foresaw overall Community financial participation at EUR 72 726 million for 2007-2013. The European Parliament firmly supported this position. The figure in the new MFF is now significantly lower: the maximum indicative amount is EUR 50 524 million. Research and Innovation Challenges 3. As the Commission states on its website " research is an investment in our future well-being. The fruits of efforts made today may not be visible for several years. But equally, failure to invest now will cost future generations dearly ". The European Union has the ambition to become the world's most dynamic knowledge-based economy by 2010. The R&D target is to achieve R&D investment of 3% of GDP by this date. At present, the United States and Japan each spend proportionately more on R&D than the EU and its Member States. 4. In its resolution on the APS for 2007 of 18 May 2006 the European Parliament " urges the Member States and the Commission to pay special attention to those areas that form the basis of a healthy economy such as knowledge, skills, research and development......calls for all policies in Member States and at EU level to be geared to supporting research and innovation wherever possible....". ) See Point 28 of the resolution. 5. Traditionally, the EU's innovation policy is linked to research. There will be a new programme (the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme - CIP) in the 2007 - 2013 MFF that tackles innovation in the light of the need to improve the EU's competitiveness