up for sale." Copy of the letter submitted to the committee. 4c) Allegations of 'churning' policyholders' contracts In WE72 Mr. BAIN claimed that in the mid-1990s Equitable Life had devised a strategy to counter the sharp fall in interest rates which had increased dramatically its liabilities due to the GAR-policies on its books and threatened its minimum reserves margins. Thus, EL would have proposed to policyholders " a new-style pension plan which would enable deferring an annuity until age 75, but claiming the 25% tax-free cash immediately, and drawing down income in the meantime. The attractions of ‘managed pensions’ were powerful: (1) they could be sold on the story that annuity rates might go up again (2) they would create ‘new business’ from selling a new pension product (3) they would generate cash from the tax-free lump sum, and the income, which could be invested in other EL products (4) policyholders with guaranteed annuity rates would lose their guarantees, offering potential significant reduction of liabilities." As in 1995 the UK general election - with Labour favourite to win - was only 2 years away, " EL’s salesforce was approaching its affluent clients who were over 50, or as soon as they turned 50, suggesting 'income drawdown 'income drawdown' is defined as a " facility which allows a delay in buying an annuity if rates should be low when retirement age is reached. Drawdown allows putting off buying an annuity to a maximum age of 75, giving an income directly from the pension fund in the meantime " (finance-glossary.com). '", in spite of detailed guidance by the PIA (G-60) which considered it suitable only for a minority of people approaching retirement. "The first technique was a scare story: they worried clients that an incoming Labour government might easily scrap the entitlement to tax-free cash from pensions – 'better take it now, even if you don’t really need a lump sum, and draw down income, even if you don’t really need any income'. As an insurance salesman’s obligation was to show that he had offered the client the most suitable product in the insurer’s product range, " the second technique was to withhold, or falsify, relevant information about the product – its tax status, for instance - or possible alternative products which in practice were never sold at all. Then, once the drawdown sale had been clinched, it was suggested that the tax-free lump sum, and usually the income too, should now be invested in other EL products. That miraculously created a triple sale, triple commission, and triple ‘new business’ sales, often of substantial sums well into six figures - from what was actually old business." The appendix to WE72 lists a number of case studies supporting this claim. A report cited by WE72 Report by Alan Steel Asset Management, a Scottish IFA firm. listed 200 cases of dissatisfied EL policyholders where " every single one had featured lack of information and misrepresentation at point of sale and for virtually all of these clients, doing nothing or taking a phased retirement plan had been