on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion by the European Community of the Protocol on the accession of the European Community to the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation (Eurocontrol) (5747/2004 – COM(2003) 555 – C5-0065/2004 – 2003/0214(AVC)) Doc.: A5-0215/2004 Procedure : Assent Debate : 20.04.2004 Vote: 20.04.2004 Vote Parliament gave its assent to the ratification of the agreement by which the Community becomes a full member of Eurocontrol, the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation. In doing so, it followed the recommendation of rapporteur Christine DE VEYRAC (EPP-ED, F), who believes this will help ensure better coordination between EU and Eurocontrol initiatives regarding air traffic control. Press enquiries: Ton Huyssoon (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73856 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42408 e-mail : region-press@europarl.eu.int Justice and Home Affairs Transfer of passenger data to the US Vote : 21.04.2004 At the request of President Pat COX , the plenary gave its opinion on whether to take action in the Court of Justice on the proposed ' light touch ' agreement between the Commission and the US authorities on the transfer of personal data on transatlantic air passengers. Parliament voted by 276 votes in favour to 260 votes against with 13 abstentions that the matter should be referred to the Court. President Cox announced he would follow the advice of the House in this matter. Debate: 19.04.2004 President Pat COX (ELDR, Munster) told the House he had received a letter from Giuseppe GARGANI (EPP-ED, I) Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee, recommending that he seek the opinion of the Court of Justice on the compatibility with the Treaty and existing directives of the draft ' light touch ' agreement on the transfer of personal data on transatlantic air passengers to the US authorities. Given the importance of the subject, he said he was seeking the opinion of the whole house on whether to do so, rather than directly addressing the Court. This would also give the Commission the opportunity to comment on the matter. Commissioner Frits BOLKESTEIN said that the Commission had been asked whether it would withdraw the draft agreement and seek to replace it with a more formal international agreement, in the context of Parliament's intention to go to the Court of Justice if this was not done. He understood there were two key answers sought by Parliament: would the agreement modify the existing data protection directive, thereby not being well founded in terms of fundamental rights and Parliament's prerogatives, and what would be the safeguards for data transferred on by the US authorities to third country law enforcement agencies. On the first point, he made it clear that the Commission did not consider the agreement to alter the existing directive. If this had been the case, the Commission would have proposed a different legal basis for the agreement. It did not, in fact, change the protection offered by the directive, he said. It simply provided a legitimate basis for the processing of the data already requested by the US authorities, in so far as this was