a) establish the modalities of the transfer and the use of the results of the definition phase to the Joint Undertaking; b) Eurocontrol is given responsibility for the following tasks , which result from implementing “the plan”, as well as the management of the relevant funds : b) describe Eurocontrol’s tasks and responsibilities in the implementation of the ATM Master Plan, such as : Justification It seeks to clarify the role and responsibilities of Eurocontrol during the ‘development phase’. Amendment 56 Annex, Article 11, paragraph 3, subparagraph 1 3. The members referred to in the second and third indents of Article 1(2) shall undertake to pay a minimum initial contribution of EUR 10 million within a period of one year from when their accession to the Joint Undertaking is accepted. This amount shall be reduced to EUR five million for members that subscribe to the Joint Undertaking within 12 months of its constitution. 3. The members referred to in the second and third indents of Article 1(2) shall undertake to pay a minimum initial contribution of EUR 10 million within a period of one year from when their accession to the Joint Undertaking is accepted. Justification This favourable clause is discriminatory with respect to the rest of members depicted in Article 1(1) concerning the founding members. Amendment 57 Annex, Article 11, paragraph 3, subparagraph 2 In the case of undertakings, subscribing individually or collectively, which may be regarded as small or medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of the Commission recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, this amount shall be reduced to EUR 250 000 regardless of when they become members. In the case of undertakings, subscribing individually or collectively, which may be regarded as small or medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of the Commission recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, this amount shall be reduced to EUR 250 000 regardless of when they become members. Founder members shall have the option of staggering this payment over several instalments, over a period to be agreed by the parties concerned . Justification SMEs do not have the resources to pay the sum of EUR 250 000 all at once: should they be obliged to do so, they will ask for a loan on the financial markets. As an SME's credit rating is generally lower than that of a big company, it is important to enable SMEs' maximum contribution to be divided into several instalments, thus increasing the chances of external funding, reducing the short-term financial burden and enhancing the probability of long-term returns. Amendment 58 Annex, Article 11, paragraph 5 5. Contributions in kind are possible . They shall be subject to an evaluation of their value and their utility for carrying out the tasks of the Joint Undertaking. 5. Contributions in kind are permissible and shall be set out in the agreements referred to in Article 8 of this Annex . They shall be subject to an evaluation of their value and their utility for carrying out the tasks