body must satisfy the requirements of Annex I and have the following characteristics: a) it must be an independent and non-profit-making legal person primarily active in the field of culture, with an objective aimed at the public good; b) it must have been legally established for more than two years and have had its annual statement of accounts for the two preceding years certified by a registered auditor; c) its activities must be in accordance with the principles underlying Community action in the field of culture and take account of the priorities set out in Annex I. Article 3 Selection of beneficiaries 1. Operating grants for the ongoing work programme of a body pursuing an aim of general European interest in the field of culture or an objective forming part of the European Union's policy in this area shall be awarded in accordance with the overall criteria laid down in Annex I. 2. Grants for actions specified in the programme shall be awarded in accordance with the overall criteria laid down in Annex I. Actions shall be selected by means of a call for proposals. Article 4 Award of the grant Grants under the different actions of the programme shall be awarded in compliance with the provisions set out in the relevant part of Annex I. Article 5 Financial provisions 1. The financial framework for the implementation of the programme for the period specified in Article 1(3) is hereby set at EUR 19 million. 2. The annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limits of the financial perspective. Article 6 Implementing measures 1. The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision relating to the matters referred to below shall be adopted in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 7(2): a) the annual plan of work, including objectives, priorities, the selection criteria and procedures; b) the financial support to be supplied by the Community (amounts, duration and recipients) in the areas covered by actions under part 2 and 3 of Annex I, and the general guidelines for implementing the programme; c) the annual budget and the breakdown of funds among the different actions of the programme; d) the arrangements for monitoring and evaluating the programme and for the dissemination and transfer of results; 2. The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision relating to all other matters shall be adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 7(3). Article 7 Committee procedures 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee provided for in Decision 508/2000/EC OJ L 63, 10.3.2000, p.1. . 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at two months. 3. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999 /468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 4. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. Article