checks on the recipients of funding of the Agency and the agents responsible for allocating it. Article 14 Privileges and immunities The Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the European Union shall apply to the Agency. Article 15 Staff 1. The Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Union, the Conditions of employment of other servants of the European Union and the rules adopted jointly by the institutions of the European Union for the purposes of the application of those Staff Regulations and Conditions of employment shall apply to the staff of the Agency. The Administrative Board, in agreement with the Commission, shall adopt the necessary detailed rules of application. 2. Without prejudice to Article 8, the powers conferred on the appointing authority by the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of employment of other servants shall be exercised by the Agency with respect to its own staff. 3. The staff of the Agency shall consist of servants recruited by the Agency as necessary to perform its tasks, but may also include officials with the appropriate clearance who have been assigned or seconded by the Commission or the Member States on a temporary basis. 3a. The provisions laid down in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article shall also apply to the staff of the GSMC. Article 16 Liability 1. The contractual liability of the Agency shall be governed by the law applicable to the contract in question. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction to give judgement pursuant to any arbitration clause contained in a contract concluded by the Agency. 2. In the event of non-contractual liability, the Agency shall, in accordance with the general principles common to the laws of the Member States, make good any damage caused by its departments or by its servants in the performance of their duties. 3. The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in any dispute relating to compensation for damage referred to in paragraph 2. 4. The personal liability of its servants towards the Agency shall be governed by the provisions laid down in the Staff Regulations or Conditions of employment applicable to them. Article 17 Languages 1. The provisions laid down in Regulation No 1 of 15 April 1958 determining the languages to be used in the European Economic Community OJ 17, 6.10.1958, p. 385/58. shall apply to the Agency. 2. The translation services required for the functioning of the Agency shall be provided by the Translation Centre for the bodies of the European Union. Article 18 Access to documents and protection of data of a personal character 1. Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. shall apply to documents held by the Agency . 2. The Administrative Board shall adopt arrangements for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 within six months after the entry into force of this Regulation. 3. Decisions taken by the Agency in pursuance of Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 may be the