Answer given by High Representative/Vice President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (20 August 2010) Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) issues have been on the agenda of the EU‑Russia human rights consultations since they began in 2005. Discussions have covered freedom of assembly issues (including Gay Pride marches) as well as freedom of association issues. At the last round of consultations, in April 2010, the EU Delegation recalled the commitments taken by all Council of Europe Member States, including Russia, on combating discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation in March 2010. In keeping with the EU’s practice of incorporating the voice of civil society in its meetings on human rights with third countries, the EU met representatives of Russian non-governmental organisations (NGOs), including NGOs representing the LGBT community, in Moscow on 23 March 2010. LGBT issues will continue to be raised at future consultations. With regard to the Gay Pride March in Moscow, in its answer to the request by the organisers to host an event on EU premises, it was considered important to achieve a balance between providing political support to the Gay Pride Marches (from the statements made by HR/VP Ashton of 17 May 2010, which was made on behalf of the EU, and which came in addition to the statement by the President of the European Council of 6 May 2010 and the statement of the President of the Parliament of 1 May 2010) and not allowing diplomatic premises to be used for a political event by a single organisation in Russia. The Commission has offered practical support to the Russian LGBT community by funding a project under the European Instrument for Human Rights and Democracy, ‘Enhancing pluralism and combating discrimination against LGBT people in Russia’, which aims to raise awareness of LGBT rights, and build local capacity on this issue. On 18 June 2010, the Political and Security Committee (PSC) adopted a Toolkit to Promote and Protect the Enjoyment of All Human Rights by Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender People. It identifies three priority areas for EU external action: 1) decriminalisation, 2) equality and non-discrimination, 3) support and protection for (LGBT) human rights defenders. The operational part of the Toolkit outlines various concrete tools and actions that the headquarters and EU missions have at their disposal for addressing the human rights of LGBT people. The Toolkit has been distributed to all EU Delegations in third countries and EU Member States have been asked by the outgoing Spanish Presidency to distribute it to their Embassies.