15. Recalls that a political solution to the Transdniestria problem is only possible if combined with full withdrawal of Russian troops from Moldova, and urges Russia to honour its international obligations and withdraw its troops in accordance with the timetable laid down at the OSCE meetings in Istanbul and Porto; 16. Welcomes the agreement to strengthen the dialogue on non-proliferation, disarmament and arms control and coordination of activities within existing international mechanisms; reiterates the importance of nuclear and chemical disarmament for the non-proliferation system and invites Russia and the Member States to play a leading role in these areas; 17. Welcomes the signing of the agreement between the Russian Federation and Europol and looks to Russia to quickly conclude negotiations on an EU-Russia Readmission Agreement, to step up work against organised crime and to promote cooperation on border management; 18. Notes with satisfaction the commitment to implement as soon as possible and in full the package on Kaliningrad, including the launch of a high-speed train feasibility study before the end of 2003 and its timely completion; welcomes the entry into force of the Russian-Lithuanian border agreement and calls upon Russia to sign and ratify its border agreements with Estonia and Latvia; 19. Remains convinced that it is possible and desirable to work towards Russia's speedy accession to the WTO and calls upon both sides to intensify their work and to resolve the outstanding issues for conclusion of bilateral market access and FDI protection negotiations on Russia's WTO accession, while ensuring mutually acceptable and commercially viable terms; 20. Deplores the fact that the Summit involved no discussions on the environment issues where EU and Russia share responsibility; states that one of the issues that should have been given high priority is the environmental threat to the Baltic Sea; 21. Stresses the importance of Russia's ratification and observance of the Espo Convention on Environmental Assessment in a Transboundary Context in order to develop effective environmental protection measures for the Baltic Sea; states that it is vital for all oil extraction in the Baltic Sea, irrespective of location, that an environmental impact assessment (EIA) be carried out; states that such an EIA should be conducted according to international standards, be accessible for any other country and should also cover the establishment of new large-scale ports or extending the life of nuclear power plants; 22. Expects of Russia concrete and quick action on the EU proposal to accelerate the phasing-out of single-hull tankers; 23. Calls on the Duma to abide by its commitments and ratify as soon as possible the Kyoto Protocol as a key element for the enhancement of multilateralism; 24. Instructs its President to forward this resolution the Council, the Commission, the parliaments of the Member States and accession countries and the President, the State Duma and the Government of the Russian Federation.