15 March 2000 JOINT MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure by the following Members: Salafranca, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group Medina Ortega and Fava, on behalf of the PSE Group Di Pietro, on behalf of the ELDR Group Lipietz and others, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group replacing the motions by the following groups: - ELDR ( B5-0255/2000 ) - PSE ( B5-0264/2000 ) - Verts/ALE ( B5-0270/2000 ) - PPE-DE ( B5-0280/2000 ) on the electoral process in Peru The European Parliament , - recalling its previous resolutions on Peru, A. whereas presidential elections will take place in Peru next April, B. regretting that three judges from the Constitutional Court have been removed because they opposed presidential re-election, which is the subject of a controversial interpretation of the existing rules, C. believing that a number of irregularities have been noted in the electoral process currently under way in Peru and in the media coverage thereof, D. whereas the army is still exercising a number of civilian functions in a number of regions, 1. Hopes that the presidential elections to be held in Peru on 9 April next will be free and open and will abide by the universally recognised rules of democracy; 2. Calls on the Peruvian authorities to take the appropriate measures to guarantee an open, fair and transparent electoral process; 3. Urges the Peruvian authorities to guarantee maximum freedom of expression for all democratic political forces, so that they may contest these elections under the same conditions and make use of free and proportional slots in all areas of the media; 4. Regrets that Peru has recently withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the Inter-American Court for Human Rights and calls on the government to review that decision; 5. Stresses the absolute need for a clear separation between the judiciary, the executive and the legislative powers, and urges the Government of Peru to refrain from any interference in the judicial system; 6. Calls on the authorities to ensure that the Self-Defence Committees refrain from interfering in rural areas throughout the electoral process; 7. Calls on the government, political parties, organisations from civil society, the media, above all television, and the Ombudsman to conduct a campaign explaining that voting takes place in secret and to take all measures necessary to guarantee that secrecy; 8. Calls on the political parties to ensure, where possible, that their representatives and observers are present at all polling stations; 9. Calls on the Commission to monitor the electoral process under the existing institutional framework, with a view to ascertaining whether the elections abide by the basic aspects underpinning the Agreement between the European Union and the Andean Pact in force since May 1998, to which Peru is a party; 10. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the President and Government of the Republic of Peru, the Organisation of American States, the Andean Pact and the Latin American Parliament.