Answer given by Mr Oettinger on behalf of the Commission (10 August 2010) There is a provision in the Electricity Directive Directive 2003/54/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity, OJ L 176, 15.7.2003. which obliges suppliers to disclose in the electricity bill the fuel mix and other relevant information on the environmental impacts of the electricity they sell to customers. The directive also requires that National Regulatory Authorities ensure the reliability and comparability of this information. To facilitate the creation of reliable systems for demonstrating the energy mix of electricity suppliers and the sale of ‘green electricity’, the new renewables Directive requires Member States to create a reliable and accurate system of ‘guarantees of origin’. The directive partially standardises the form of these guarantees of origin and sets out how they should be used. Member States are in the process of implementing this directive, and the Commission will ensure that the systems of guarantees of origin put in place by Member States are reliable. The Commission is also taking part in the work of CEN (European Committee for Standardisation) in creating a reliable European standard for guarantees of origin. Electricity suppliers are free to price their product as electricity supply is an activity under competition. Consumers may choose the electricity product that best fits their budget, personal values and lifestyle choices, so long as the appropriate information is available to them. This information may not be misleading. Moreover, specifically for ‘green claims’, the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive Directive 2005/29/EC of Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market, OJ L 149, 11.6.2005. stipulates that the entity making a ‘green claim’ must substantiate it with information to the competent national authority. It is the appropriate national body (bodies) that both reviews the truthfulness of the information that is being communicated to consumers and makes sure that authentification of green electricity is correct. As for the question on unjustified additional charges, it is also the case that any charges must be notified to the appropriate national body before their application.