8 May 2002 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Joaquim Miranda and Yasmine Boudjenah on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group on preparations for the World Food Summit – five years later (FAO – Rome, June 2002) European Parliament resolution on preparations for the World Food Summit – five years later (FAO – Rome, June 2002) The European Parliament, – having regard to the undertaking given at the 1996 World Food Summit in Rome to halve the number of people suffering from hunger by the year 2015, A. whereas at that time the number of persons concerned was 840 million, a figure which had been reduced to 800 million by 2001, and whereas the initial objective will not be achieved by the average reduction of 8 million persons per year that this reflects, B. whereas the right to a sufficient amount of food, which is inextricably linked to the dignity of the human person, is enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 and recognised in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, C. whereas three-quarters of persons suffering from malnutrition in the world live in rural areas; whereas this is due in particular to the fact that agricultural policies are not sufficiently geared to agriculture in the poorest countries and to the scant resources allocated to supporting them, but also to the fact that primary products originating from types of agriculture with widely differing levels of productivity compete directly with each other, D. having regard to the experience of the European Union, which has, since its inception, sought to secure its food supplies through its common agricultural policy, E. whereas the European Union is simultaneously engaged in wide-ranging policies relating to European agriculture, international trade, and development aid for the countries of the South, F. whereas ensuring consistency among these three policies is a vital prerequisite for their individual effectiveness, particularly as regards European development aid, G. having regard to the Marrakesh agreements on agriculture, the resumption of agricultural negotiations since 1 January 2000 and the Ministerial Declaration adopted at the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the WTO in Doha, H. whereas, although international trade can contribute to development, the current conditions under which it operates do not promote world-wide food security, and may even run counter to it, I. whereas the use of food aid which is necessary in emergencies, has been shown to have a number of adverse effects, in particular local products are replaced and local markets are disrupted, and under no circumstances can it therefore provide a lasting solution to the problems of food insecurity, REQUEST 1. Calls for the undertakings given by Heads of State at the 1996 World Food Summit to be honoured; RIGHTS 2. Reaffirms its commitment to respect and ensure compliance with the principle of the right of everyone everywhere to a sufficient amount of healthy food; 3. Reaffirms the need to recognise the right to food as a fundamental human right; 4. Calls on the Member States