in 2009; 4. Urges all armed non-state actors to show their respect for the humanitarian norm established by the Ottawa Convention by stopping the production and use of anti-personnel landmines and to sign the Geneva Call Deed of Commitment; 5. Calls on the Council, the Member States and candidate countries to immediately start the preparation of the 2009 Ottawa Convention Review Conference and to make a proposal for the planned 'joint action' in this context; 6. Calls on all States Parties to fully and rapidly implement all their obligations under the Ottawa Convention; 7. Urges all Member States, candidate countries and parties to the Ottawa Convention to insist that any mine which is likely to be detonated by the presence, proximity or contact of a person is an anti-personnel mine prohibited by the Convention; notes that, specifically, this means that tripwires, break wires, tilt-rods, low-pressure fuses, anti-handling devices and similar fuses are prohibited for States Party to the Convention; 8. Requests the Member States and candidate countries immediately to take measures to ensure that anti-vehicle mines which are likely to be detonated by the presence, proximity or contact of a person are destroyed in accordance with the provisions of the Ottawa Convention; 9. Calls on the Commission to fully ensure its determination and continuity of efforts to financially assist communities and individuals affected by landmines through all available instruments, including in territories under the control or influence of armed non-state actors, and calls upon the Commission to appear before Parliament early in 2008 to clarify its action in this context; 10. Calls on the Commission to reinstate a specific anti-personnel mine budget line for the financing of mine action, victim assistance and stockpile destruction required of States Parties that cannot be funded through the new funding instruments; urges the Commission to ensure that sufficient resources are made available after 2007; 11. Calls on the Commission to maintain sufficient staff posts to ensure the effective implementation of its policy on banning anti-personnel mines, including ensuring that mine action is explicitly included in mine-affected States Parties’ Country Strategy Papers and National Indicative Programmes and keeping track of total funding for mine action through the different funding instruments; 12. Calls on States Parties, particularly EU Member States and candidate countries, to ensure that their funding for mine clearance contributes to the development of a national mine clearance capacity to guarantee that mine clearance activities are continued until all known or suspected mined areas are cleared; 13. Urges the Council and the Commission to continue to support the efforts to commit armed non-state actors to a landmine ban, which does not imply support for, or recognition of the legitimacy of, armed non-state actors or their activities; 14. Calls on mine-affected countries and international donors to give greater priority to the physical and economic rehabilitation of survivors, as their needs are not being adequately addressed; 15. Calls on the relevant committees closely to monitor and participate in CCW meetings, to report on Member States' and candidate countries' initiatives on landmines, and to report on other international measures