16.12.2008 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Tunne Kelam, Zbigniew Zaleski, Christopher Beazley, Michael Gahler, Edward McMillan-Scott, Eija-Riitta Korhola, Colm Burke, Charles Tannock, Bernd Posselt on behalf of the PPE-DE Group on attacks on human rights defenders in placecountry-regionRussia/The murder trial of Anna Politkovskaya European Parliament resolution on attacks on human rights defenders in Russia/The murder trial of Anna Politkovskaya The European Parliament , – having regard to the declaration of the presidency of the Council of the European Union on the house search of the premises of the organisation Memorial in St. Petersburg on 4 December 2008, – having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. Whereas Russia is a member state of the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) that has committed itself to fully respecting human and citizens' rights; B. Whereas there is information about the progressive deterioration of the situation of human rights defenders and also about difficulties faced by the NGOs that are active in the promotion of human rights; C. Whereas numerous complaints by Russian citizens have been addressed to the European Court of Human Rights in CityplaceStrasbourg which confirmed that human rights had been breached in a number of its judgments; D. Whereas on October 28, Otto Messmer, leader of the Russian Jesuit order and Victor Betancourt, an Ecuadorean priest were brutally murdered in their CityplaceMoscow apartment; E. Whereas a leading Russian human rights lawyer, Karinna Moskalenko, who has successfully represented the cases of 30 Russian citizens in the Strasbourg human rights court, fell victim in mid-October to an attempted poisoning by mercury deposited in her car in Strasbourg; F. Whereas on August 31, 2008, the owner of an Ingush independent website, Magomed Evloev was killed while in police custody; G. Whereas numerous attempts on the life of human rights defenders have been registered from July to October 2008, including the Ingush opposition leader Akhmed Kotiev, human rights defender Zurab Tsechoev from Ingushetia, human rights activist Dmitrii Kraiukhin from CityplaceOrel city, human rights activist Stanislav Dmitrievski from Nizhni Novgorod; H. Whereas on December 3, 2008, the St. Petersburg offices of the Research and Information Centre "Memorial", which has for 20 years conducted the research of Stalinist repressions in the Soviet Union, were raided by masked men from the Russian General Prosecutor's Office and as a result of this raid, hard drives and CDs containing the entire database about thousands of victims were taken away with no inventory of the confiscated documentation made; I. Having regard to the second anniversary of the murder of the widely respected independent investigative journalist Anna Politkovskaya, whose brutal killing has not yet been fully investigated and solved in a satisfactory way; J. Having regard to the fact that investigations of the murder of the British citizen Aleksander Litvinenko by using radioactive polonium have been blocked by the uncooperative attitude