the risk-of-poverty rate in the countries of the Union stood at 16%". Moreover, "a more detailed look at these indicators shows that the old, the unemployed, particularly the long term unemployed, isolated persons and lone-parent families are the social groups facing the greatest risk of poverty and material deprivation". What are the solutions? "I ask myself if our traditional social protection policies may not be reaching the limits of their efficacy", said Mr Cavaco Silva. Nowadays "we must acknowledge the need for the social model to adapt to the new challenges and the new contexts of the global world and of the information and knowledge society". Ultimately, "the best protection against poverty and social exclusion we can give citizens is to facilitate their participation in the job market". Therefore "We need more and better economic growth" together with education and training "to make the habit of lifelong learning widespread". Africa, energy, environment Moving on to external affairs, the President drew the House's attention to Africa, saying it was "a continent that we should advisedly consider and treat as a priority partner. Europe’s inertia in relation to Africa may carry a heavy strategic price for the Union". He attached great importance to the forthcoming EU-Africa Summit set to take place during the Portuguese Presidency. He also stressed the importance of energy and the environment, saying these areas reflected "common vital interests and must be seen as the new driving force of European integration". He complimented his compatriot, Commission President José Manuel Barroso, on his "strategic vision and determination" on this front. Lastly, Mr Cavaco Silva spoke of the role of the EU on the international stage, saying that "ensuring the conditions for Europe to be a central, influential actor in the global, multilateral and multipolar world that is emerging is crucial for the very sustainability of the European integration process". Portugal's history as a leader of globalisation makes it "well aware that its capacity to act as a credible, influential actor on the world scene is decisive for the future of Europe", said the Portuguese President, who then concluded his speech by praising the European Parliament as "an institution that has always been at the forefront in defending the values and principles that forged the identity of Europe and wove the 'de facto solidarity' bequeathed by the founders". -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-001-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-003-EN DOC XML V0//EN Institutions Better regulation in the EU - MEPs adopt four reports 2007-09-10 - 13:45 MEPs adopted four reports on better regulation in the EU. The key points of the package include emphasising plain and simple language, the importance of adequate and independent impact assessments, based on wide-ranging consultation of stakeholders and that "soft law" all too often constitutes an ambiguous and ineffective instrument which is liable to have a detrimental effect on Community legislation. "Better Regulation in the EU" The first report strongly supports the process of Better Regulation with