bodies, to verify that the revenues and the associated interest raised for these future activities shall only be used for these purposes, i.e. for decommissioning or waste management activities, and not used directly or indirectly to fund activities in the market. 2. In the case of nuclear installations whose main purpose is other than the sale of products or services, in particular research reactors, Member States shall determine the means of meeting the specific decommissioning resource requirements. ________________ * Six months after the adoption of this Directive. Amendment 29 Annex 1a (new) ANNEX 1a 1. The decommissioning funds shall be created from contributions by operators of nuclear installations during their operation, in order to reach a level of resources, at the time of the final shutdown, sufficient to cover all expenses related to decommissioning and waste management as defined in paragraph 2. 2. Contributions shall be made to the fund in line with the case of a nuclear installation whose operation will cease before the end of its estimated service life and with the estimated original service life of the installation and with the decommissioning and radioactive waste management strategies chosen, in such a manner as to cover, in particular, decommissioning of the installation; safe, long-term management of the conventional and radioactive wastes from decommissioning of the installation; and safe, long-term management of the spent fuel from nuclear power stations and of the wastes from reprocessing operations not already fully covered as an operational cost. 3. The assets of the funds shall be managed in a manner ensuring liquidity compatible with the timetable for the decommissioning and waste management obligations and the costs set out in paragraph 2. 4. The assets of the funds are to be used only to cover the costs set out in paragraph 2 in line with the decommissioning strategy and may not be used for other purposes. To this end, the decommissioning funds shall be duly established with their own legal personality, separate from the operator of the installation. 5. In the case of a nuclear installation whose operation will cease before the entry into force of the legislative, regulatory and administrative provisions set out in article 10 of this Directive; or within… [period to be decided] of the entry into force of these provisions, approaches other than the creation of decommissioning funds as required by this Directive may be taken. 6. Member States shall define the method by which the necessary resources for decommissioning, already accumulated by the operator before the entry into force of measures taken to implement this Directive, shall be transferred. These transfers must take place within one year from the date envisaged in Article 8.