advice programmes; 38. Notes that the dual system (practical and scholastic education) is proving successful in certain Member States thanks to companies' cooperation and interaction in the provision of career-related training; 39. Calls on undertakings to make increased use of joint training schemes so that specific training targets that are in demand on the labour market can be better achieved; 40. Calls on the Member States, given the reorientation towards a sustainable economy and sustainable growth, to strengthen the institution of vocational education and training since it has the potential to become a means of addressing the social consequences of corporate restructuring for workers, by increasing their employability; 41. Emphasises the importance of social and inclusive economy models for this new enterprise culture, and points out that it is vital that institutions providing vocational education and training, including higher education, should equip their students with a detailed knowledge of all forms of entrepreneurship, including in the social and inclusive economy, and of responsible and ethical management principles; 42. Emphasises the need to establish an inventory of those areas in which the European Union holds, or could hold, a comparative advantage worldwide, and for which further training strategies should be developed; Vocational training 43. Calls on the Member States to allow for the growing need for upskilling by setting up advice centres to help workers plan the necessary vocational training; calls on employers to offer opportunities for upskilling to all employees; 44. Recommends that incentives be provided to employers to encourage their employees to take part in training programmes; 45. Calls on the Member States to develop incentives for employers to facilitate the provision in micro- and small enterprises of cost-effective and flexible training adapted to the needs of women; urges the Commission and all the Member States to make determined efforts to combat wage inequalities between men and women, with a view to eliminating the current 18 % gender-based wage differential by 2020; 46. Calls on the Member States, with the assistance of the Commission, to promote, through the relevant university programmes, models for managing and exploiting human resources based on the recognition of vocational education and training, within the framework of lifelong learning, as an added value and competitive advantage for enterprises; 47. Recommends that the autonomy of VET centres be promoted in the areas of planning, financing, managing and assessing activities, and that more dynamic forms of cooperation be introduced between VET centres and enterprises; 48. Recalls that investing in education and training is essential for a better future for Europeans; takes the view that key competences and new skills, in particular those required by jobs in strategic growth sectors, provide people with new opportunities and, moreover, lay the basis for long-term sustainable economic and social development; considers it important, in this connection, that the Member States and all actors involved ensure that workers acquire the basic competences they need; 49. Calls on the Commission to devise instruments such as lifelong learning evaluation schemes to encourage and support workers in systematically pursuing lifelong learning/vocational education and training on their own