vertical units in all Directorates-General. Parliament has already suggested that Member States also " appoint political figures responsible at national level for infringement policy" EP resolution P6_TA(2006)0202 , par. 16. and called on the Commission to ask Member States "to guarantee retroactive application of the Community provisions which have been infringed, in order to remove all effects of the infringement, with an immediate recourse to Article 228 of the EC Treaty in the event of persistent failure to comply ." EP resolution P6_TA(2006)0202 , par. 17. There should be increased involvement and participation of both the European Parliament and the national parliaments in the process of monitoring implementation of Community Law. A reduction in the amount of European legislation must be accompanied by more emphasis on its implementation. The European Parliament should be at the forefront in this respect but without interfering with the competences and duties entrusted to the Commission by the Treaties. The Commission and Parliament should create permanent channels of communication and establish a structured dialogue on implementation issues. This has to be done at the highest political level and be followed-up through the involvement of the various competent bodies within Parliament. The collaboration of these two institutions is of paramount importance although the main responsibility for implementation rests with the Commission as guardian of the Treaties. The annual report on implementation of Community Law should become an in progress tool for Parliament, permanently monitored by the parliamentary committees. Rather than being a static annual document, it should be an instrument for committees to supervise EC actions in the field of implementation. The committee responsible for better law-making, the Committee on Legal Affairs, should play an important role in coordinating and liaising with the relevant services in the Commission and with the leadership structures of Parliament, such as the Presidency and the Conference of Presidents. The specialised communication between the Commission and parliamentary committees in the area should be permanent and structured. Parliament should adjust its procedures with a view to playing a more active role in monitoring the implementation of legislation in the Member States. Serious consideration should be given by the decision-making bodies of Parliament to the establishment, within the committees, of permanent rapporteurs on implementation or task-forces responsible for following up on the implementation of key legislation adopted by each committee. The competent rapporteur should, alone or with the help of the above mention permanent structures, play an active role in this area. Consideration should also be given to whether the Rules of Procedure need to be amended with a view to providing for a more active role for Parliament in overseeing implementation. The national parliaments should also play an important role. The involvement of national legislative bodies in the field of European affairs has increased substantially over the last few years and will continue to do so in the future. In this area, mechanisms should be developed in order to secure the active participation of national parliaments (and regional parliaments that have legislative powers) in the monitoring of community legislation. Legislative bodies in Member States