Answer given by Mr Patten on behalf of the Commission (24 September 2003) 1. Financing agreements for two projects in the State of Vargas were signed by the Venezuelan Government on 19 December 2002. These two projects will be implemented by Corpovargas (Instituto Autónomo Corporación para la Recuperación y Desarrollo del estado Vargas) and will start on the arrival of two European technical assistants experts already hired by the Commission. The Commission has done its utmost to ensure that these projects start in September this year. Since the beginning of the year Corpovargas has been carrying out a detailed identification of measures/works to be carried out to reduce the time required for the projects' start-up phase. Contracts for these projects' funding will be concluded in accordance with the conditions and time limits laid down in the financing agreements. The framework cooperation agreement signed with the Venezuelan Government laying down the operational framework for Community cooperation has not yet been ratified by the Venezuelan Parliament. Nevertheless Presidential Decree No 2.374 of 24 April this year exempts all international cooperation projects from VAT. The Commission considers it will be possible to utilise all the resources made available for work to be undertaken under the two projects in question within the time limits laid down in the relevant financing agreements. 2. The Commission adopted a decision on 25 October 2002 providing EUR 20 million for the Prevención de las inundaciones en los Estados de Falcón, Yaracuy y Miranda project. The technical annexes to the financing agreement are being finalised and the agreement is expected to be signed by both parties (the Commission and Venezuelan Government) before 31 December of this year. The Commission would inform the Honourable Member that the delays in the signing of this financing agreement are due to the inability of the Venezuelan Government to decide who will act as the supervisory authority for this project which concerns three different States. The Commission delegation is negotiating an appropriate solution with the relevant authorities.