Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (23 October 2008) The Spring European Council of 2007 agreed to reduce unilaterally EU greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20 % by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, and by 30 % provided that other industrialised countries commit to comparable efforts in the framework of a global agreement to combat climate change post-2012. The EU Emission Trading System (ETS) is one of the most important tools for achieving these targets cost-efficiently. Allowing participating companies flexibility to buy or sell emission allowances means that emission cuts can be achieved at least cost. The Commission has had extensive discussion with a large number of industry stakeholders when preparing for review of the EU ETS. It has assessed their suggestions and in many cases included these in the proposal. The Commission has also carefully considered the potential impact of energy intensive industries. This is duly reflected in the impact assessment and accordingly taken into account in its proposal. As regards allocation of allowances, the increased share of auctioning constitutes a very important step-change in the ETS. Auctioning is broadly recognised to be the most efficient way of allocating allowances, while also avoiding so-called ‘windfall profits’ as experienced in the past. Another advantage is that it best ensures transparency and simplicity of the system. The Commission fully agrees that carbon leakage or, in other words, relocation of industries to countries which do not have carbon constraints, should be avoided. The best way to avoid this is to secure agreement on an ambitious and comprehensive international climate agreement by the end of 2009, which remains the EU's first priority. The directive duly addresses the potential risk of carbon leakage, by providing to sectors or sub-sectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage free allocations up to 100 % of their respective share. In the light of the outcome of international climate negotiations, and no later than June 2011, other measures might be proposed, such as the inclusion of importers into the EU ETS. The Commission is already actively engaged with stakeholders, and notably with industry, on data gathering, as well as discussion on the criteria and methodology for the identification of sectors or sub-sectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage, which will allow for the sufficient certainty expected by industry. The first step in this process is the identification of sectors or sub-sectors at risk, which the Commission proposes to do by June 2010 at the latest.