WRITTEN QUESTION P-6202/08 by Stéphane Le Foll (PSE) to the Commission (12 November 2008) Subject: Agricultural cooperatives I have recently been approached by French agricultural cooperatives concerned about their possible prospects following the lodging of a complaint about the tax treatment of such cooperatives. All the Member States of the European Union recognise the existence of agricultural cooperatives which, although they are not covered by a set of harmonised Community rules, are all based on the same concepts, values and operating principles. These principles were incorporated in Regulation (EC) No 1435/2003 OJ L 207, 18.8.2003, p. 1. on the Statute for a European Cooperative Society. This indicates their importance in the everyday life not only of farmers, but also of their locality. They contribute actively to sustainable rural development in the Union by the highly localised nature of their activities, the advice they provide and the value they add to products. More generally, they play an irreplaceable role in relation to employment, economic and social cohesion, environmental protection and land-use planning. As the Commission notes in its communication of 23 February 2004 (COM(2004)0018) on the promotion of cooperative societies in Europe, cooperatives have the following specific characteristics: — As associations of persons or legal entities, and regardless of their size, they operate for the benefit of their members and do not seek to maximise profits on capital. Their status as cooperatives does not allow them to have recourse to financial markets to increase their equity capital. — Their reserves and net assets are held in common, dedicated to the common interests of members and non-distributable. Cooperatives are not managed in the interests of outside investors. — They act in the economic interests of their members and in the wider community interest. The current financial and economic crises provide clear evidence of the importance of economic devices which serve to regulate markets and maintain economic activities at local level such as cooperatives. What action does the Commission intend to take in response to the complaint which has just been lodged with the Commission? Can the Commission indiscriminately apply the rules on competition and state aid to agricultural cooperatives without thereby placing in jeopardy their recognised specific characteristics and the special role they fill for farmers and Union citizens in general?