the proceedings may attend meetings of the GPMB. 2. The GPMB shall be composed of a maximum of 10 experts. A maximum of eight experts and an equal number of alternates shall be designated by the Member States acting within the Council. Two experts and two alternates shall be designated by the Director General of the responsible Directorate-General of the Commission from among Commission officials. Other Commission officials with an interest in the proceedings may attend meetings of the GPMB. Interested Members of the European Parliament or officials from relevant policy departments in the European Parliament may attend GPMB meetings. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 4 Regulation (EC) No 114/2008 Article 17a - paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. The GPMB shall draw up its own terms of reference. They shall take effect after a favourable opinion has been given by the Director General of the responsible Directorate-General of the Commission. 5. The GPMB shall draw up its own terms of reference. They shall take effect after a favourable opinion has been given by the Director General of the responsible Directorate-General of the Commission. The terms of reference of the GPMB shall include a requirement to publish regular reports and that those reports be made available to the European Parliament in order to ensure full parliamentary scrutiny and oversight. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 4 Regulation (EC) No 114/2008 Article 17a - paragraph 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6. Without prejudice to Article 15(2), the administrative costs and travel expenses arising from the activities of the GPMB shall be borne by the general budget of the European Union, to the extent that they are not reimbursed from other sources. As regards travel expenses of the experts in the GPMB designated by the Member States acting within the Council and experts invited pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article which arise in connection with the work of the GPMB, the Commission's 'Rules on the reimbursement of expenses incurred by people from outside the Commission invited to attend meetings in an expert capacity' shall apply. 6. Without prejudice to Article 15(2), the administrative costs and travel expenses arising from the activities of the GPMB shall be borne by the general budget of the European Union, to the extent that they are not reimbursed from other sources. As regards travel expenses of the experts in the GPMB designated by the Member States acting within the Council and experts invited pursuant to paragraph 3 of this Article which arise in connection with the work of the GPMB, the Commission's 'Rules on the reimbursement of expenses incurred by people from outside the Commission invited to attend meetings in an expert capacity' shall apply. The necessary appropriations to cover the cost arising from the meetings of the GPMB shall come from the appropriations currently foreseen in the Financial Programming 2010-2013 for the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II). RESULT OF FINAL VOTE IN COMMITTEE Date adopted