mineral processing already classified as hazardous under the EU ‘waste list’ to unequivocally fall under the scope of the Seveso II Directive. This, in turn, allows Aznacóllar-type tailings pond accidents to be covered by Seveso II Directive. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Introduction Your rapporteur welcomes, as a whole, the common position on the revision of the Seveso II Directive, adopted by the Council on 20 February 2003. The Council accepted and took over, either in their entirety or in modified form, a number of important concerns expressed by Parliament at first reading, in particular the amendments relating to the accident at Toulouse and the time limits for application of the directive to existing plants, as well as some of the amendments concerning the consultation of employees, information on safety measures and urban development planning. However, some other important amendments adopted by the European Parliament were not accepted by the Council and your rapporteur therefore intends to table them again at second reading. Proposed modifications Mining activities Your rapporteur notes the Commission’s intention to draw up a legislative proposal on the waste produced by mining. However, he considers that the scale of the problem, highlighted by the accidents at Aznacollar and Baia Mare, justifies immediate action on the part of the legislator and hence the extension of the field of application of the Seveso II Directive to all mining activities, irrespective of how the substances are processed or prepared. Potassium nitrate Similarities between ammonium nitrate and potassium nitrate prompted Parliament to include the latter among the specified substances, but it made a distinction between potassium nitrate in crystalline form and in ‘prilled’ (granular) form, more commonly used for agricultural purposes, which is not to be considered as an oxidising agent according to certified tests covered by the UN publication ‘Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods: Manual of Tests and Criteria’. These amendments, incorporated by the Commission in its modified proposal, were not accepted by the Council, but no justification was given. In the light of scientific data currently available your rapporteur is therefore retabling these amendments. Map showing risk areas The common position incorporated some of Parliament’s concerns regarding information to public, but it did not accept the idea – backed by the Commission – of preparing a pictorial representation of the areas likely to be affected by the consequences of an accident arising from an establishment. Your rapporteur is therefore putting this idea forward once again in the new wording used by the Commission in its amended proposal. Database Although the Council has accepted the principle of the amendment adopted by Parliament at first reading, it has not set any deadline for creating the data base. Your rapporteur finds the wording proposed by the Council acceptable, provided that it includes a deadline, which he proposes should be three years after the entry into force of the directive. However, the Environment Committee has decided that it would be more advisable to retable the amendments on this aspect adopted at first reading. Training The rapporteur considers that the Council’s proposed wording as regards staff training