the development and appropriate use of e- learning in Europe, and to accompany Member States' efforts in this field. They are structured according to the four areas of intervention of the programme. Action Line 1"Promotin g digital literacy" Action in this field must cover both conceptual and practical issues, from the understanding of digital literacy to identification of remedial actions for specific target groups. Digital literacy is one of the essential skills and competences needed to take an active part in the knowledge society and the new media culture. Digital literacy also relates to Media Literacy and Social Competence, as they have in common objectives such as active citizenship and the responsible use of ICTs. (a) Identification and dissemination of good practice in the promotion of digital literacy. Particular attention will be paid to improving access to learning resources for those who have no easy access to ICT, to addressing different cognitive and didactic approaches, and different learning styles, to addressing special needs, for example, those of immigrants , hospitalised children or disabled users; and to exploring the use of engaging and motivating approaches; (b) Awareness actions via European networks in this field. The programme will support actions carried out by European networks, associations, public authorities, public-private partnerships, etc.; supporting contacts and exchange of good practice between them. Action Line 2: "European virtual Campuses" This action line aims at providing an " e Learning dimension" to European initiatives in the field of Higher Education, contributing to the creation of a European Area of Higher Education. (a) Development of existing instruments in particular those concerning virtual mobility as a complement and reinforcement for physical mobility (virtual ERASMUS); recognition and validation schemes (based on ECTS); information and guidance services, and any other synergies between virtual and traditional models. These projects should be based on institutional agreements, whenever possible extending or complementing existing cooperation agreements in the context of the Community mobility programmes; (b) Transnational virtual campuses. The programme will support strategic projects to be proposed by higher educational establishments from at least three Member States. Cooperation models for e-learning should be developed regarding: design of joint curricula development by several universities, including agreements for the evaluation, validation and recognition of acquired competences, subject to national procedures; large-scale experiments of virtual mobility in addition to physical mobility; and development of innovative dual mode curricula – based on both traditional and on-line learning methods; (c) European e-learning models for Higher Education. These projects should develop new models for cooperation between European Higher Education institutions, in particular addressing the provision of continuous training and professional development, and in the development of learning support services as well as for training teachers, trainers and other educational personnel in the pedagogical use of e-learning; examining quality assurance methods; the development of a better understanding of organisational change and possible risks associated with implementing e-learning in Higher Education; and the development of European models for public-private partnerships in the field of e Learning in Higher Education, as well as developing the opportunities opened by new partnerships and funding models. Action Line