it envisages to take in response to it. In order to demonstrate that a citizens' initiative supported by at least one million Union citizens and its possible follow-up is carefully examined, the Commission should explain in a clear, comprehensible and detailed manner the reasons for its intended action, and should likewise give reasons if it does not envisage taking any action . As citizens should have the guarantee that a successful initiative will be followed up appropriately, the Commission should organise a public hearing jointly with the European Parliament, if appropriate together with other institutions and bodies of the Union . T he Commission as the addressee of an initiative should be represented at the level of Commissioner or at least Director G eneral. Justification The Commissions' reaction to a move by European citizens should be both legally and politically justified. Furthermore, this should be demonstrated by a reasoning showing that the citizens' voice is heard and the possible action to be taken is seriously and thoroughly thought-out. Amendment 20 Proposal for a regulation Recital 18 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (18) Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data is fully applicable to the processing of personal data carried out in application of this Regulation. In this respect, it is appropriate to clarify that the organiser of a citizens' initiative and the competent authorities of the Member States are the data controllers within the meaning of Directive 95/46/EC and to specify the maximum period within which the personal data collected for the purposes of a citizens' initiative may be retained. In their capacity as data controllers, organisers need to take all the appropriate measures to comply with the obligations imposed by Directive 95/46/EC, in particular those relating to the lawfulness of the processing, the security of the processing activities and the provision of information and the rights of data subject to access to his/her personal data as well as the correction and erasure of his/her personal data. (18) Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data is fully applicable to the processing of personal data carried out in application of this Regulation. In this respect, for the sake of legal certainty, it is appropriate to clarify that the organisers of a citizens' initiative and the competent authorities of the Member States are the data controllers within the meaning of Directive 95/46/EC and to specify the maximum period within which the personal data collected for the purposes of a citizens' initiative may be retained. In their capacity as data controllers, organisers need to take all the appropriate measures to comply with the obligations imposed by Directive 95/46/EC, in particular those relating to the lawfulness of the processing, the security of the processing activities and the provision of