Answer given by Mr Cioloş on behalf of the Commission (12 May 2010) In relation to the first part of the question, EU legislation and relevant implementing rules ensure that all food placed in the EU market, both domestically produced or imported from third countries provide the same food safety guarantees to consumers. As part of the requirements of the direct support scheme, EU farmers also have to meet the cross- compliance obligations, of which environment protection and animal welfare are important elements. The public goods deriving from these rules represent a consolidated asset for the EU farming system. The issue for European farmers is to make these efforts clear to the consumers, in order to allow them to do an informed choice. The Commission has tabled a Communication in May 2009 on agricultural products quality policy COM(2009)234 final. , where it indicates its intention to address this problem, by considering appropriate labelling within marketing standards for agricultural products. Regarding the second part of the question, the Commission is reflecting on what type of market instruments could be needed for the future common agricultural policy (CAP), in a context of increased uncertainty and volatility of prices. The Commission is convinced that a safety net is necessary to help farms survive market crises or extreme weather events without influencing the normal functioning of markets. In this light, the Commission will examine eventual adjustments to the provisions already present in the single Common Market Organisation. Moreover, the Commission is aware of the need to reflect on how to tackle further the risk of income volatility for farmers, particularly, on the need to examine innovative ways to help farmers better manage market risks in order to reduce their income volatility. Any new instruments should be in accordance with its international obligations. Finally, a transparent and well functioning food chain will also be important to ensure the long term competitiveness of the agricultural sector. The improvement of the whole supply chain is essential, with transparency, price transmission and reducing imbalances in bargaining power of contracting parties being the main elements needed for contributing to market stability.