Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (21 April 2010) A traditional role of the banking sector is to act as a financial intermediary and ensure the so-called maturity transformation. In practice, banks borrow short term (via retail deposits or directly on the interbank market, the money and short-term financial markets) and invest or lend with longer maturities. During the crisis, the provision of liquidity to banks and other support measures provided by public authorities were essential in ensuring that banks could survive the stress conditions, in particular the drying out of interbank financing. The financial press has extensively reported on banks' practices to exploit the short-end and the long-end of the yield curve to boost their earnings, i.e. borrowing at cheap rates and investing at longer maturities in financial assets to secure a higher return. At the same time, it has indeed been observed that the credit supply to individuals and companies by financial institutions has been lower following the crisis. However, the Commission cannot confirm that these liquidities are mainly used for ‘speculative’ purpose. There are multiple explanations underlying the current situation in the banking system and supply of credit. On one hand, it is clear that financial institutions may have been more cautious in granting credit, which is not unexpected considering that non-performing assets have been an important part of their problems and that they have been invited to clean their balance sheets and better take risk into account. On the other hand, with the propagation of the financial crisis to the real economy, the demand for credit has also been affected, reducing automatically the financing flows from financial institutions. More generally, the delineation of a speculative activity and the differentiation from other business activity remains a highly subjective task. In addition, it must be observed that speculative activities do not necessarily require liquidity, as positions can always be taken without engaging funds. Therefore, the Commission does not believe that imposing constraints on financial institutions forcing them to provide credit would constitute an appropriate solution. Economic recovery and a restructuring of the financial sector, including through better regulation and more efficient supervision to increase its resilience, constitute more effective replies in the current circumstance and would insure more efficiently that financial institutions return to their core duty of financing the economy.