Fight obesity earlier in life, says Environment Committee Public health 2008-05-27 - 16:59 Europe has almost 22 million overweight children, and a further 1.3 million will be overweight or obese by 2010, says the Environment Committee in a report, adopted on Tuesday, that calls for an earlier start to measures to prevent obesity. Remedies include clearer food labelling, better food in schools and kindergartens, restrictions on advertising unhealthy food to children, and VAT reductions for fruit and vegetables. Overweight, obesity and diet-related disease are approaching epidemic proportions, notes the own-initiative report by Alessandro Foglietta (UEN, IT), which the committee adopted unanimously. Obesity already accounts directly for about 6% of health spending, but the indirect costs are much higher, says the report. Obesity is one of Europe's most serious public health problems, because it significantly increases the risk of chronic diseases such as cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes and some cancers. The Environment Committee advocates a multi-level, comprehensive approach to fighting obesity, and points out that there are many European research, health, education and life-long learning programmes that can help to tackle this scourge. Fight the fat early in life Since childhood obesity correlates closely with obesity in adults, the Commission and other stakeholders should make fighting it their priority, says the report. School curricula should be designed to ensure that physical exercise and a balanced diet become part of every child's behaviour. MEPs also want the quality and nutritional standards of school and kindergarden meals to be improved, inter alia by providing fresh fruit and vegetables in school vending machines. They encourage the move away from selling children in schools foods and drinks that are high in salt, sugar or fat (HSSF) and of poor nutritional value, sand say that sponsorship and advertising for HSSF products should be restricted and monitored. Food labelling - MEPs call for mandatory front-of-pack labelling using colour coding The committee sees comprehensive information on labels as the key to enabling consumers to choose between good, better and less good nutrition. They welcome the Commission's new proposal to revise the directive on nutrition labelling of foodstuffs, and urge that the label be made visible, clear and easily understandable to the consumer. These rules should include mandatory front-of-pack nutritional labelling using colour coding, say MEPs, who recommend that nutrient content be expressed per 100g/100ml. Curb advertising of unhealthy food to children MEPs also ask for protected times and for restrictions on unhealthy food commercials that specifically target children, adding that such restrictions should also apply to new media such as online games, pop-ups and text messaging. The committee views as "a step in the right direction" the voluntary approach that the TV without frontiers Directive takes to the advertising of food of poor nutritional value to children. If 2010 review of the Directive finds that this voluntary approach has failed, then stricter measures should be brought forward, they add. MEPs also encourage media service providers to develop codes of conduct on inappropriate audiovisual commercial communication relating to food and beverage products. Industry self-regulation good, but not good enough MEPs