Joint answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission Written questions : E-3900/10 , E-3901/10 (14 July 2010) As correctly pointed out by the Honourable Member the Commission presented in 2008 a proposal COM(2008)0428. amending the Value-Added Tax (VTA) Directive Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax — OJ L 347, 11.12.06. in order to extend the scope of reduced rates to certain new categories of local services including, among others, beautician services. On the basis of economic studies In particular a study by Copenhagen Economics ApS, Nyropsgade 13/1, DK-1602 Copenhague (2007) on the reduced rates of VAT applied to goods and services in the EU Member States, available on the Commission's website at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/taxation_customs/taxation/gen_info/economic_analysis/economic_studies/index_en.htm , the Commission proposed to include in the list of goods and services eligible for a reduced VAT rate, local services which are not likely to cause distortion of competition because of their basic characteristics, in particular the category ‘personal care of the kind provided in hairdressing salons and personal grooming establishments’ was added. Their characteristics mean that the place of supply rules will ensure their taxation at the place of consumption because they cannot be supplied from a remote location, they are largely directed to the local market of final consumers and the supplier and customer are located in a geographically limited area. When discussing the Commission's proposal, the Council had a thorough discussion on the overall system of reduced VAT rates, as a result of which, the Finance Ministers recognised that reduced rates of VAT could, depending on the circumstances, have both positive and negative economic effects and that Member States should therefore always look into other, more efficient solutions before deciding to introduce reduced rates of VAT. Consequently, they restricted the scope of the reduced rates of VAT suggested by the Commission with the aim of reaching a consensus Ecofin political agreement of 10 March 2009 on reduced VAT rates: http://www.consilium.europa.eu/uedocs/cms_data/docs/pressdata/en/ecofin/106576.pdf and adopted Council Directive 2009/47/EC Council Directive 2009/47/EC of 5 May 2009, OJ L 116, 9.5.2009. . This directive is the result of difficult negotiations on the entire system of reduced rates of VAT. It strikes a fragile balance between the different interests of the Member States in the politically sensitive area of VAT rates, for which unanimity is required. Furthermore, a number of Member States strongly opposed any further extension of the possibility to apply reduced rates and underlined that any future decision on reduced VAT rates should reduce their overall scope. Thus only certain labour-intensive services were included in Annex III to the VAT Directive, whilst all the other elements mentioned in the Commission's proposal from 2008 were rejected. Against this background, the Council is unlikely, at least not in the near future, to reopen the issue of reduced VAT rates and look to further extend their scope. However, to take account of new socioeconomic realities, which certainly give rise to new challenges in the VAT area, the Commission intends to launch a consultative Green paper on a