WRITTEN QUESTION E-2928/08 by Caroline Lucas (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (23 May 2008) Subject: Use of animal remains in animal feed The ban on feeding animal remains to pigs and poultry was imposed in response to the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) crisis in the UK, after the use of dead, diseased cows in commercial feed was identified as the probable cause of BSE spread and the emergence of new variant Creutzveld Jacob disease (vCJD). The 2005 Roadmap on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) nevertheless suggested that in future some bans might be relaxed; a move that the European Economic and Social Committee urged the Commission to move ahead with in 2007. Could the Commission confirm the status of plans to pursue this? Since its identification in 1986, the BSE epidemic has affected 183 000 cows in the UK, and 160 human deaths have been confirmed as resulting from the linked vCJD. The crisis led to the culling of millions of cattle, a shattering of public confidence, and the devastation of the UK's beef industry. Clearly, all this was unanticipated — even though with cows being natural herbivores, the use of animal protein in their feed was biologically ill-advised. It has been argued that since pigs and chickens are omnivores, the risks of feeding chickens to pigs and vice versa are less than including ruminant protein in the diet of herbivores; and that the short life-span of chickens reduces the likelihood of them incubating a disease like vCJD. But in view of the devastation caused by the BSE epidemic, how would the Commission justify risking a practice which — despite the EUR 1.7 million being spent on research into methods for detecting meat products in animal feed — could have similar unanticipated consequences, via contamination and resultant possible cannibalism? Possible relaxation of the legislation is reportedly linked to the rise in cereal prices. What research is the Commission undertaking into other ways to address this, and into more sustainable farming practices? How will the Commission assess the risk of transmission of diseases like influenza and salmonella between pigs and chickens? If animal remains are re-introduced into poultry feed, how will the Commission address the issues of consumer confidence, retailer opposition, and incompatibility with the principles of Muslims and vegetarians?