Question for written answer E-008574/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Franz Obermayr (NI) (28 September 2011) Subject: Extension of the operating lifetime and construction of a new nuclear power plant (NPP) in Krško — a threat to Austria According to current documentation within the framework of the cross-border strategic environmental assessment procedure (SEA) for a National Energy Programme of the Republic of Slovenia, the country does not intend to close the plant despite massive defects at the antiquated Krško reactor. While the whole of Europe is considering scenarios to phase out nuclear power after the Chernobyl and Fukushima nuclear disasters, nuclear explosives are included in Slovenia's future National Energy Programme (NEP). Slovenia is accordingly planning to expand Krško as a permanent component of its energy programme, and the projected lifetime of the hazardous Krško NPP is to be extended by at least 62 years. Although prominent scientists have warned that Krško is situated on an earthquake fault line, Slovenia also intends to build another power station on a site close to the existing old Krško NPP. Plans include establishing waste storage facilities for low and intermediate radioactive material in the area of the Krško nuclear power plant by 2023. The eminent nuclear specialist, Helga Kromp-Kolb, like many other experts, calls for this NPP to finally undergo tests for earthquake safety as this area is prone to earthquakes and its closure would be advisable. Greenpeace had already called on the Slovenian government in 2010 to ultimately phase out nuclear power. Furthermore, in evaluating the impact of nuclear power on the various environmental factors, the author of the report comes to incorrect conclusions. The impact on natural resources is assessed as insignificant. However, it can be expected that with two power stations there is a potential danger. Moreover, the report does not go into the geographical, geological and thermal position of Austria in any way at all, which makes a complete farce of the strategic environmental assessment. 1. Is the Commission aware of the documents relating to the strategic environmental assessment and SEA procedure? 2. What is the Commission's assessment of Slovenia's plans to extend and establish a second NPP and nuclear waste disposal centre in Krško, close to the Austrian border? 3. Why was it that Germany reacted by removing its antiquated reactors from the grid, whereas Slovenia is allowed to stubbornly carry on regardless? What is the Commission's position on this matter? 4. What action does the Commission consider it necessary to take? 5. What steps does the Commission intend to take towards adopting a uniform regulation at EU level to deal with the issue of liability for nuclear power stations and with the dangers arising from them in Europe?