the Commission would have proposed a different legal basis for the agreement. It did not, in fact, change the protection offered by the directive, he said. It simply provided a legitimate basis for the processing of the data already requested by the US authorities, in so far as this was covered by the Commission's adequacy finding. Regarding the subsequent passing by the US of this data to third countries, Mr Bolkestein said this was a relatively new issue and discussions were not complete with the US - indeed they continued on 19/20 April 2003. Any understanding reached on this issue would not however alter the agreement reached with the US - it would be a common understanding on how that agreement would be implemented. He suggested that Parliament should wait to hear the outcome of these discussions and the Commission's reaction to them before moving to a vote on the issue. Klaus-Heiner LEHNE (D) for the EPP-ED group stated that if there were no agreement between the EU and the US on this subject, then there would be severe difficulties for EU citizens travelling to the US. The US, he said, in the absence of an agreement would seek to obtain the information from embassies and at customs in any case. He recalled that his group had consistently opposed taking the Commission to the European Court of Justice over this issue. Ornella PACIOTTI (I) for the PES group stated that the proposed agreement represented a " serious breach of fundamental right s". She stated that there was no sufficient US legislation which guaranteed data protection for EU citizens. The agreement, she said, violated existing EU data protection legislation and underlined the necessity to bring the matter to the Court of Justice. Graham WATSON (South West) for the ELDR group congratulated the Commission on its efforts in attempting to reach an agreement with the US but regretted that the Commission had not been more successful in persuading the US authorities on the necessity of data protection. He was another speak to point out that the US did not have sufficient data privacy legislation to protect EU citizens. Mr Watson also stated that there was " a large democratic deficit " due to the absence of the European or national parliaments being able to say " yes or no " to the proposed agreement. He was also concerned that the data could be passed on to third-country governments. Finally, he stated that the Commission should either withdraw its proposal, or, if it maintained its present position, then it would be necessary to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice. For the EUL/NGL group Giuseppe DI LELLO FINUOLI (I) said the position of citizens regarding this agreement seemed to get worse all the time. Now it appeared that the data would be passed to third countries, which made the original breach of the treaty still worse, he said. He argued a referral to the Court of Justice was a natural consequence of the previous stances taken by Parliament and that this should go