Spain-Congress Yes -Similar to the powers of other Parliamentary Committees -Investigative powers similar to those of the courts The results of PCIs shall be disclosed, as the case may be, to the Public Prosecutor for the adoption, when relevant, of the appropriate actions. Sweden No: The Swedish parliamentary system does not provide for PCIs, but allows each of the 16 permanent committees to arrange public meetings or hearings. In our system, a PCI must thus be understood as public meeting or hearing by a parliamentary committee . -Similar to the powers of other Parliamentary Committees -Public hearings are mainly in-depth hearings of experts on a specific issue. A hearing may allow the committee to receive information that not otherwise could have been gathered, in the form of oral expert witness statements, to provide the committee with an extended basis of information for decision-making. The only committee with the constitutional power to scrutinize the Government in an investigative manner similar to that of the courts is the Committee on the Constitution. This scrutiny is above all a judicially based scrutiny with elements of parliamentary control in the political sense. Switzerland Yes -En vertu de l'article 166 (2) de la loi du 13 Décembre 2002 La commission d’enquête peut, selon le cas, confier à un chargé d’enquête le soin d’administrer les preuves. Celui-ci agit conformément au mandat que lui a confié la commission d’enquête et suivant ses instructions. -En vertu de l'article 171 (1) de la loi du 13 Décembre 2002 Lorsque l’Assemblée fédérale a décidé d’instituer une commission d’enquête parlementaire aucune autre commission n’est plus autorisée à procéder à des investigations sur les événements qui font l’objet du mandat confié à cette commission d’enquête. UK-House of Lords Yes Similar to the powers of other Parliamentary Committees UK-House of Commons No: In the British Parliament there are no committees of Inquiry (although Parliament's broad powers would probably allow it to set them up if it so wished). There are committees on legislation (Standing Committees) and committees to monitor Government departments (Select Committees). The Select Committees conduct 'inquiries', but these are not of a quasi-judicial nature, nor are they specially convened by the House as a whole. Instead, the Members on the Committee decide on the subjects they wish to investigate, and these are often quite general areas of policy. - Procedures, part 1 3. From which bodies can PCIs request the infor ­mation and docu ­mentation deemed necessary for the conduct of their proceedings? 4. Are bodies that refuse to collaborate with PCIs in the provision of information or documentation subject to sanctions ? Austria - The Government - The judicial authorities - The administrative authorities Yes Belgium -The Government -The judicial authorities -The administra­tive authorities -Private bodies Yes Finland - The Government - The judicial authorities - The adminis­trative authorities - Private bodies Yes France -Le Gouvernement -Les corps de contrôle -Les autorités administratives -Les personnes privées Oui Germany -The judicial authorities -The administrative authorities -The committee of inquiry may also question witnesses and experts. Yes Greece -The Government -The judicial authorities -The