reports and sample checks referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall ensure that, if necessary, the scale or the conditions of allocation of the financial assistance originally approved and also the timetable for payments will be adjusted. 5. The Commission shall ensure that every other step necessary to verify that the actions financed are carried out properly and in compliance with the provisions of this Decision and the Financial Regulation will be taken. Article 14 Protection of Community financial interests 1. The Commission shall ensure that, when actions financed under the present Decision are implemented, the financial interests of the Community are protected by the application of preventive measures against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities, by effective checks and by the recovery of the amounts unduly paid and, if irregularities are detected, by effective, proportional and dissuasive penalties, in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96, and with Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2. For the Community actions financed under this programme, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 shall apply to any infringement of a provision of Community law, including infringements of a contractual obligation stipulated on the basis of the programme, resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the European Communities or budgets managed by them, by an unjustified item of expenditure. 3. The Commission shall ensure that the amount of financial assistance granted for an action will be reduced, suspended or recovered if it finds irregularities, including non-compliance with the provisions of this Decision or the individual decision or the contract or agreement granting the financial support in question, or if it transpires that, without Commission approval having being sought, the action has been subjected to a change which conflicts with the nature or implementing conditions of the project. 4. If the time limits have not been observed or if only part of the allocated financial assistance is justified by the progress made with implementing an action, the Commission shall ensure that the beneficiary will submit observations within a specified period. If the beneficiary does not give a satisfactory answer, the Commission shall ensure that the remaining financial assistance and demand repayment of sums already paid might be cancelled. 5. The Commission shall ensure that an undue payment shall be repaid to the Commission. . Interest shall be added to any sums not repaid in good time under the conditions laid down by the Financial Regulation. Article 15 Evaluation 1. The programme will be monitored regularly in order to follow the implementation of activities carried out there under. 2. The Commission shall ensure the regular, independent, external evaluation of the programme. 3. The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council: (a) an annual presentation on the implementation of the programme; (b) an interim evaluation report on the results obtained and the qualitative and quantitative aspects of the implementation