of a Union interest but the requirements should not be too cumbersome. It therefore should be set at one fifth of the Member States. Justification A lower threshold should be found where the Union interest can still be represented but the requirements are not too cumbersome. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7) It is appropriate to fix a minimum age for supporting a citizens' initiative. This should be set as the age at which citizens are entitled to vote in the European Parliament elections . (7) It is appropriate to fix a minimum age for supporting a citizens' initiative. In order to foster the participation of younger citizens in the democratic life of the Union , this should be set at the age of 16 . Justification A lower age limit is proposed in order to encourage younger citizens' participation in the democratic life of the Union. The age limit of 16 years in case of European elections already exists in a certain Member State. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7a) It is important to involve young people and to encourage them to participate in citizens' initiatives. Therefore, in the long term, a European system for the verification of signatures should be set up. This would make it possible to have one common minimum age for signing purposes throughout the Union . Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation Recital 7 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (7b) A minimum organised structure is needed in order to successfully carry through a citizens' initiative. This should take the form of a citizens' committee, composed of natural persons (organisers) coming from a number of different Member States, in order to encourage the emergence of Europe-wide issues and to foster reflection on those issues. For the sake of transparency and smooth and efficient communication, the citizens' committee should designate representatives to perform a liaison function between the committee and the institutions of the Union throughout the procedure. Justification The citizens' initiative is conceived in order to give the opportunity to citizens to participate in the democratic life of the Union. It should only be open to natural persons who establish a citizens' committee. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Recital 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives, it should be mandatory to register such initiatives on a website made available by the Commission prior to collecting the necessary statements of support from citizens ; proposals that are abusive or devoid of seriousness should not be registered and the Commission should reject the registration of proposals which would be manifestly against the values of the Union . The Commission should deal with registration in accordance with the general principles of good administration. (8) In order to ensure coherence and transparency in relation to proposed citizens' initiatives and to avoid a situation in which signatures are collected for a proposal which does