be implemented within the scope of application of Community law. Article 2 General objectives 1. This programme shall have the following general objectives: (a) To promote the development of a European society based on respect for Fundamental Rights as recognised in Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union [...], including rights derived from citizenship of the Union. (b) To strengthen civil society and to encourage an open, transparent and regular dialogue with it in respect of fundamental rights. (c) To fight against racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism and to promote a better interfaith and intercultural understanding and improved tolerance throughout the European Union . (d) To improve the contacts, exchange of information and networking between legal, judicial and administrative authorities and the legal professions, including by way of support of judicial training, with the aim of better mutual understanding among such authorities and professionals. 2. The general objectives of the programme are complementary to the objectives pursued by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2006/ . 3. The general objectives of the programme contribute to the development and implementation of the Community policies in full respect of Fundamental Rights. Article 3 Specific objectives The programme shall have the following specific objectives: (a) To promote the Fundamental Rights as recognised in Article 6(2) of the Treaty on European Union [...] and to inform all persons of their rights including those derived from the citizenship of the Union in order to encourage Union citizens to participate actively in the democratic life of the Union. (b) To examine, when necessary, the respect of specific fundamental rights in the European Union and its Member States when implementing, Community law, [...] and to obtain opinions on specific questions related to fundamental rights within this scope. (c) To support non-governmental organisations and other bodies from civil society to enhance their capability to participate actively in the promotion of fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy. (d) To create relevant structures in order to foster an interfaith and multicultural dialogue at the level of European Union. Article 4 Actions With a view to pursuing the general and specific objectives set out in Articles 2 and 3, this programme will support the following types of actions: (a) specific actions taken by the Commission, such as, studies and research, opinion polls and surveys, formulation of indicators and common methodologies, collection, development and dissemination of data and statistics, seminars, conferences and expert meetings, organisation of public campaigns and events; development and maintenance of websites, preparation and dissemination of information material, support for and management of networks of national experts, analytical, monitoring and evaluation activities; or (b) specific trans-national projects of Community interest presented by an authority or any other body of a Member State, an international or non-governmental organisation, and involving in any case at least two Member States or at least one Member State and one other state which may either be an acceding or a candidate country , under the conditions set out in the annual work programmes; or (c) support to