has since been replaced by the UK (WE-CONF 11). In WE 1 Pages 7-9. , the Commission explained its position as follows: " The Commission is not in a position to take a definitive view on whether there might have been an infringement in the practical application of the directive in the case of Equitable Life and, even if it were able to take such a view and was convinced that there had been an infringement in practice, it would not be able to take infringement proceedings before the Court. ... The Court of Justice had ruled that the purpose of proceedings was 'to bring about a change in behaviour on the part of the recalcitrant State, and not to record in abstracto that a failure existed in the past'. The Court had held that the 'Commission may not bring proceedings before the Court for Treaty infringement unless a Member State has failed to comply with the reasoned opinion within the time-limit notified to it for that purpose' Case C-349/99 Commission v Italy , ECR (2002) p.I-305 . ... In the case of Equitable Life, the Commission had declared itself satisfied with the UK’s implementation of the relevant Directive and any problems appear to be problems of practical application rather than of transposition. The Commission had seen no reason to begin infringement proceedings, no reasoned opinion was issued and it was quite clear that the UK life insurance regulatory and supervisory regimes that had been called into question by various correspondents, complainants and petitioners had been radically amended since the occurrence of the problems brought to the Commission’s and Parliament’s attention ." The Commission noted in conclusion that " since the main point at issue appeared to be the payment of compensation ... it had consistently stated that action to seek compensation had to be pursued before the national authorities and courts ", which would be " true even where the Community directives directly conferred rights on individuals " (WE 1 Page 9. ). Complainants and petitioners regarded the Commission's reluctance to investigate the alleged incompatibility of the former UK regulatory regime with the Third Life Directive as highly unsatisfactory. For instance, EMAG notes in WE 44 that " pensions savings are products accumulated over 50 years or more, to provide for old age " and that " it can take decades for black holes to be revealed, as with Equitable ". EMAG suggests that it would therefore be " unacceptable for the Commission to refuse to address past failures " and asks: " In what effective legal framework can offenders walk away just with promises to reform? " The Commission says in WE 1 that it is " fully aware that petitioners find this position unsatisfactory ". " Nevertheless this is the only position the Commission can adopt given its role and the nature of infringement proceedings under Community law " (WE 1 Page 9. ). The Commission does not believe that there is a loophole since it " did not see what would be the purpose of bringing proceedings to