14 November 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the statements by the Council and Commission pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Jules Maaten on behalf of the ELDR Group on the third Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM III, Seoul, 20-21 October 2000) European Parliament resolution on the third Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM III, Seoul, 20-21 October 2000) The European Parliament, – having regard to its previous resolutions on ASEM III adopted in September 2000, – having regard to the chairman's statement and the conclusions of the third Asia-Europe Meeting which took place in Seoul, Korea, on 20 and 21 October 2000, – having regard to the Seoul Declaration for Peace on the Korean Peninsula issued during the third ASEM Meeting, – having regard to the Commission working document on perspectives and priorities for the ASEM process in the new decade ( COM(2000) 241 final), A. whereas the objective of the ASEM process is to build a comprehensive partnership among equal partners, based on the promotion of three pillars of political dialogue, the deepening of economic relations and the strengthening of education and cultural cooperation, and whereas ASEF has been a useful tool in this regard, particularly in matters relating to people-to-people exchanges, B. whereas Brunei, China, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, the fifteen EU Member States and the European Commission participate in this process, C. whereas ASEM III has set out the key perspectives and priorities which Asia and Europe might address in the first decade of this new century, D. underlining that the ASEM summits are particularly important to ensure that the ASEM process can continue to bring about significant progress in the fields of political, economic and cultural dialogue, 1. Welcomes the results of the third ASEM Meeting held in Seoul on 20 and 21 October 2000; 2. Stresses the importance of free and fair open trade between Europe and Asia and believes that the renewed economic dynamism of Asia and the growing economic strength of Europe will, in synergy, promote prosperity and stability in both regions, a process which will benefit the international community as a whole in our increasingly interdependent world; 3. Recognises and encourages the efforts made by the Asian countries to put an end to their economic crisis and invites them to continue their efforts to implement more financial and economic reforms; 4. Expresses, nevertheless, its concern over volatility in oil prices and believes that ensuring a stable supply of energy is vital to the maintenance of long-term economic growth for all ASEM partners and the world as a whole; 5. Reiterates its full support for the process of rapprochement and cooperation under way between the Republic of Korea (ROK) and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) and warmly encourages both sides to continue building permanent dialogue and cooperation for peace and security in the region; 6. Believes that all the ASEM partners should commit themselves in the future more actively to promoting and protecting all human rights, including the right to development and fundamental freedom; 7. Regrets