Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (14 July 2008) The Commission is not aware of the situation described by the Honourable Member, as companies have no overall obligation to inform it of the decisions they intend to take. Council Directive 98/59/EC of 20 July 1998 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to collective redundancies OJ L 225, 12.8.1998. may be applicable in the circumstances referred to by the Honourable Member. It stipulates that an employer who envisages collective redundancies must provide workers' representatives with specified information concerning the proposed redundancies and must consult with the workers' representatives in good time with a view to reaching an agreement. Such consultations should cover ways of avoiding or reducing the redundancies and of mitigating their consequences by recourse to accompanying social measures. Italy has adopted the necessary measures to transpose the directive into its legal order by Law No 223 of 23 July 1991 and amendments thereto. Furthermore, in March 2005 the Commission adopted a communication, Restructuring and employment: Anticipating and accompanying restructuring in order to develop employment — The role of the European Union COM(2005)120 final. in which it outlined a comprehensive, coherent EU approach to restructuring. The communication will be the subject of a mid‑term evaluation as part of a follow-up communication to be adopted by the Commission before the summer break 2008. The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) was set up to provide individual support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation in accordance with strict intervention criteria laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 Regulation (EC) No 1927/2006 of the Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on establishing the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, OJ L 406, 30.12.2006. . Criteria relate both to the number of job losses and to the relationship between those job losses and structural changes in international trade. There must be at least 1000 redundancies over a period of four months in one enterprise, including in its suppliers or downstream producers, or at least 1 000 redundancies over a period of nine months in a NACE 2 division in one region or in two contiguous regions at NUTS II level. The information provided by the Honourable Member does not appear to show that the announced closure of the Electrolux factory in Scandicci meets the criteria for intervention. A Member State wishing to apply for a financial contribution from the EGF must also provide statistical evidence that the job losses stem from major structural changes in world trade patterns as reflected by a substantial rise in imports into the EU, a rapid decline in the EU market share in a given sector, or delocalisation to non-member countries. The Commission is, of course, willing to discuss specific, potential cases with the Italian authorities. Lastly, the overall objective of the European Social Fund (ESF) Operational Programme (OP) Toscana 2007‑13 is to increase employment and competitiveness in the Region by increasing adaptability and employability, investing in human capital and fostering social inclusion. The OP’s priorities