10.7.2007 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Helmuth Markov, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group on human rights violations in Transnistria (Moldova) European Parliament resolution on human rights violations in Transnistria (Moldova) The European Parliament , – having regard to its previous resolutions on the situations in Moldova, and in Transnistria in particular, – having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the Action Plan for Moldova adopted by the seventh EU-Moldova Cooperation Council meeting on 22 February 2005, – having regard to interim resolution adopted by the Committee of Ministers on 1 March 2006 concerning the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights ( ECHR) of 8 July 2004 in the case of Ilascu and others against Moldova and the Russian Federation, – having regard to the statements of the OSCE Summit in Istanbul of 1999 and the OSCE Ministerial Council in Oporto 2002, – having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas Moldova has historical, cultural and economic ties with the EU Member States and with its neighbour countries to the East, Russia and Ukraine, B. whereas the region of Transnistria declared its independence in 1992 after an armed conflict, which has largely contributed to the instability in the whole country, undermining the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Moldovan Republic, C. taking into consideration Moldova's EU aspirations and the fact that the frozen conflict in Transnistria is taking place in the immediate neighbourhood of the EU, D. whereas talks on the status of Transnistria have been ongoing since 1992, in Five - Plus - Two Format, involving Moldova, the Transnistrian region of Moldova, Russia, Ukraine and the OSCE, with the EU and the USA as observers but whereas the negotiations broke down in April 2006, E. whereas on 22 June 2007 the conference of the international forum "The Future of Transnistria" was held in Odessa, bringing together representatives from Moldova, Transnistria, Russia, Ukraine and the EU, with the aim of setting up a working group of experts and politicians to find a new approach to resolve the conflict, F. whereas, despite the above mentioned initiatives, no final solution has yet been found to the conflict in Transnistria, which is the main reason for political instability, insecurity, economical difficulties and shortcomings in the human rights field in the region, G. welcomes the recent liberation of Mr. Andrei Ivantoc and Mr. Tudor Petrov - Popa, the last remaining detainees of the so called "Ilascu group", sentenced to prison by self-proclaimed Transnistrian authorities 15 years ago over terrorist acts during the 1992 war of independence, H. whereas the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), in its judgment of 8 July 2004 in the case of Ilascu and others against Moldova and the Russian Federation, judged that the European Convention on Human Rights had been infringed and ordered Moldova and the