Contract Law and the Acquis Review. COM(2005)0456 . One of the follow-up measures is the creation of a Common Frame of Reference (CFR) on Community contract law. The Commission envisages that the CFR’s spheres of action might include: national legislators’ being able to make use of the CFR even in areas not covered by Community law; the CFR serving as a basis for the elaboration of an optional legal instrument (Measure III of the Action Plan); and the CFR complementing national law. The work on the CFR will be partly carried out by a Network of interest representatives from consumers’ organisations, industry, business and the legal profession (CFR-Net) set up by the Commission on 15 December 2004 in Brussels. The Network meets in workshops on specific topics of contract law. Underlying the work of the workshops are the results of the academic research groups. These research groups have been given the task, in the context of the Commission’s 6 th Research Framework Programme, of working out proposals for a common frame of reference on European contract law. Rapporteur’s statement The aim of this report is to map out a strategic perspective for the future work of the Commission and the Network, involving the European Parliament. At the meetings of the workshops, and in debates on the Commission’s communication of 11 October 2004, a number of criticisms have been expressed which coincide with your rapporteur’s assessment. These criticisms relate to issues of both substance and procedure. In substantive terms, the main risk is seen in the lack of attention being paid to the fundamental civil law principle of freedom to conclude contracts, and that there is so far no sign of a systematic separation between business-to-business and business-to-consumer legal relationships. The highly detailed nature of the rules on individual types of contract also leads one to fear that contract law will not be allowed sufficient room to develop dynamically. On procedural issues the criticism is made first of all that the Commission sets out no clear legislative plan predicting what legal form the frame of reference should have. In addition, the European Parliament has so far not been given a sufficiently large role to play in the development process. Accordingly there is a need for functioning information and consultation mechanisms. The quarterly reports which have been called for in this connection seek to offload in gradual instalments, during the course of the [Commissions’ and Network’s] work, the enormous volume of results which are to be expected once the work is completed. The report is also intended to provide information on how the Commission proposes to deal with the discrepancies and contradictions between the results of the Network and of the Study Group. Finally, some partial improvements need to be made to the practical work of the Network, though it is recognised that the Commission has taken on a new type of project for which it is unable to call on any specific experience. 25.1.2006 OPINION of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection (*) for the Committee on Legal Affairs on