In this respect, it would be necessary to ensure that bodies involved in managing FP7, CIP and the Structural Funds are aware of the possibilities offered by each of these instruments. Even though synergies between policies go beyond complementary project funding, it is important to understand the possibilities to combine existing instruments. In this respect the Rapporteur welcomes the creation of the Practical Guide to EU funding opportunities for Research and Innovation. This guide gives some interesting examples of combining the different instruments. According to Article 54(5) of the General Regulation an expenditure co-financed by the Funds cannot receive further co-financing from another Community instrument, thus mixed financing is prohibited. There is however the possibility to combine the instruments to support: complementary but separate activities (e.g. developing major research infrastructures, with FP7 covering the preparatory phase and construction works covered by Structural Funds), consecutive parts of related projects (e.g. different phases of the development of a technology over time: basic research, applied research, demonstration or pre-competitive market introduction) or projects within the same network/cluster. Finally, it has to be noted that besides creating guidance notes, all levels, regional, national and EU have to step up and coordinate their efforts to improve communication and to share best practices both within their respective bodies (ministries, directorate generals) and towards potential beneficiaries. Reflections and first recommendations of the Rapporteur The Rapporteur's recommendations are focusing on one hand on strategic goals, on the other hand on concrete objectives and actions with a view to enhance synergy between cohesion, research and innovation policy. In the upcoming review of the financial framework and the unfolding discussion on the future of cohesion policy, the draft EU2020 Strategy proposed by the Commission proved to be of major importance. No detailed analysis was made of the proposed EU2020 strategy, the rapportuer only made references to aspects relevant for the scope of the present implementation report. It is assessed as a positive element that the draft puts emphasis on the interdependence between policies and the need for better synergies and stronger partnership in the design and delivery of public policies. It is important to note, that the necessity to better coordinate policies on the ground is also a clear message formulated by many regions, regional actors in Europe. The Rapporteur takes the view that regional policy had and has a major contribution in responding to central EU challenges: reducing structural disparities between regions, improving EU competitiveness, counterbalancing the effects of the global economic crisis, limiting the impact of demographic or climate change. For these reasons, a strong and well financed policy is considered to be a pre-requisite for the achievement of the EU 2020 goals and for promoting the objectives of social, economic and territorial cohesion. Without aiming to propose a definition or to develop a debate in the context of this report on the concept of territorial cohesion, Your Rapprteur highlights that it also targets the coordination of policies that have an important territorial impact, in order to fully use the regional potential and increase their impact on the ground. Therefore,