with long-term gilt yields falling accordingly. Insurers with large books of GAR policies saw their liabilities increase dramatically: EL, holding minimum reserves and giving maximum payouts, was to be particularly badly hit see also the issue of "Managed Pensions/Income Drawdown" as detailed in WE72. 1993 Market current annuity rates fell below the GAR annuity rates promised by ELAS , thereby raising substantially the cost to ELAS of providing GAR pensions; Differential Bonus Policy (DBP) applied 7.9.1998 EL writes to Denton Hall, the Society's solicitors, seeking legal advice on the GAR and Differential Bonus Policy; GAR formally becomes an issue Jan.1999 Hyman litigation is launched in the UK High Court S&P downgrades EL's credit rating from AA to A+/watch negative see WE-FILE22. 20.7.2000 House of Lords ruling ended the Hyman litigation WE-CONF21 confirms that EL continued to take in new business after this date until it closed down to new business on 8 December 2000. For details on this period see also Chapter 18 of the Penrose report (WE16). 2b) Background information For a better understanding of the GAR issue, it may be useful to identify different groups of policyholders involved: - GAR policyholders, i.e. those having a guaranteed annuity option on their policy - non-GAR policyholders, i.e. those holding policies lacking this option - Late-Joiners (LJ), i.e. policyholders who bought EL policies after 30 September 1998 The market forces leading to the GAR problem have been extensively researched and clearly identified: they mainly relate to the rapid and unexpected fall in UK interest rates in the early 1990s. WE29 recalls how "in late 1993 and in 1995, open market rates fell below GARS and have remained below ever since. In addition, the assumptions concerning life expectancy used to determine the size of the GAR pension payments were not revised in the light of improvements in mortality that had taken place since they had been set, further raising the cost of the pensions. The Board at the time did not take these extra costs into account when it awarded annual bonuses and all members’ policy values (both GAR and non-GAR) increased at the same rate." In an effort to correct this adverse market movement, " the Board corrected for the extra cost of the GARs through a ‘differential final bonus policy’ first introduced in 1993, which it considered was within the discretion it had discretion power claimed by EL management under Art.65 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association of ELAS. . The intention was to declare final bonuses that made the value of total benefits broadly equal to each policyholder’s notional share of the with-profits fund ... Those policyholders who elected to take the GAR option from ELAS received a lower final bonus than those policyholders who, despite having a GAR option, elected to take their pension benefits in a different form ... but at the lower market rate ruling at the time. The Board thought that this strategy was legal; the Institute of Actuaries and Treasury Insurance Directorate agreed." (WE29) As a result of complaints from policyholders, who argued that the