for a new phase of confidence-building between the respective institutions and allow for further progress. 21. According to the text of the joint Declaration of 25 November 2002, the Council shall give ' early warning in the context of the regular political dialogue on CFSP actions which might have important financial implications’. The rapporteur notes that the Council has not fully complied with this provision over the past years and stresses the need for improvement. Naturally, the consultation meetings to be held five times a year should be used to this end. 22. It should be pointed out that the text of the IIA as regards the Council's obligation to provide the European Parliament with financial statements could in fact apply to all decisions relating to the CFSP entailing expenditure, i.e. not only expenditure from the EU budget. There has been a difference of interpretation between the two institutions in which the Council claimed (in 2002) that it was valid only when expenditure from the EU budget was involved. However, the text reads "...whenever it adopts a decision in the field of CFSP entailing expenditure, then council will immediately and in each case no later than five working days....". This would certainly imply that also decisions/expenditure falling to the member States should be provided to give a more complete picture. 23. Also in financing terms, there are gradually ever more links to the Union's largest financial interventions, i.e. its aid programmes and other Community instruments in the external field. However, it is not always "clear-cut" as to whether an action can be financed under a 1st pillar instrument or under the 2nd pillar (for example, mine-clearance, civilian emergency assistance, human rights, institution building, election monitoring, consolidation of democracy and the rule of law). In what may be described as a "grey-zone" in both operational and budgetary terms, the links between CFSP and ‘traditional’ external actions clearly justify the request for greater consistency between policies and actions devised under the first and second pillars. 24. It will also be interesting to explore how the proposed set of new External Action Instruments will work in relation to the CFSP chapter in this respect. It is also a question of sound budgetary management and achieving value-for-money. In fact, already in 2001, the European Court of Auditors clearly criticised the fact that similar CFSP actions were funded from different budget lines and subsections and recommended that the financing of CFSP actions should be managed in a more transparent manner . 25. The rapporteur sincerely hopes that the new multi-annual financial framework (MFF) can serve as a "new beginning" in this respect and emphasises that this will be a crucial element to be taken into account in the next few years and in view of the 2008-2009 review of the MFF. The case of EU Special representatives 26. At the beginning of 2006 the Council decided to extend until 28 February 2007 the mandate of eight EUSRs (Bosnia Herzegovina, Central Asia, Middle East Peace Process, Moldova, South Caucasus, Great Lakes, FYROM, and Afghanistan). 27. In accordance with