the budget. 4. The task of establishing that the revenue has been received and the expenditure incurred in a lawful and proper manner and that the financial management has been sound shall extend to the utilisation, by bodies outside the institutions, of Community funds received by way of grants. 5. Community financing paid to beneficiaries outside the institutions shall be subject to the agreement in writing by the beneficiaries or, failing agreement on their part, by the contractors or subcontractors, to an audit by the Court of Auditors into the use made of the financing granted. 6. The Commission shall provide the Court of Auditors, at its request, with any information on borrowing-and-lending operations. 7. Use of integrated computer systems may not have the effect of reducing the access of the Court of Auditors to the supporting documents. Article 143 1. The annual report of the Court of Auditors shall be governed by the provisions of paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article. 2. The Court of Auditors shall transmit to the Commission and the institutions concerned, by 15 June at the latest, any observations which are, in its opinion, such that they should appear in the annual report. These observations must remain confidential. Each institution shall address its reply to the Court of Auditors by 30 September at the latest. The replies of institutions other than the Commission shall be sent to the Commission at the same time. 3. The annual report shall contain an assessment of the soundness of financial management. 4. The annual report shall contain a section for each institution. The Court of Auditors may add any summary report or general observations which it sees fit to make. The Court of Auditors shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the replies of each institution to its observations are published immediately after the observations to which they relate. 5. The Court of Auditors shall transmit to the authorities responsible for giving discharge and to the other institutions, by 31 October at the latest, its annual report accompanied by the replies of the institutions and shall ensure publication thereof in the Official Journal of the European Communities . 6. As soon as the Court of Auditors has transmitted the annual report, the Commission shall inform the Member States concerned immediately of the details of that report which relate to management of the funds for which they are responsible under the rules applicable. Following receipt of such information, the Member States shall reply to the Commission within 60 days. The latter shall transmit a summary to the Court of Auditors, the Council and the European Parliament before 15 February. Article 144 1. The Court of Auditors shall notify the institution concerned of all observations which are, in its opinion, such that they should appear in a special report. These observations must remain confidential. The institution concerned shall have two-and-a half months within which to inform the Court of Auditors of any comments it wishes to make on the observations in question. The Court of Auditors shall adopt the definitive version