of the Treaty, the Commission shall, with the assistance of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee". (2) In Article 11(5), the words "submit to the Insurance Committee" are replaced by the word "issue". Article 8 Directive 2002/83/EC Directive 2002/83/EC is amended as follows: (1) In Article 46(9), the words " the Commission shall submit to the Insurance Committee a report summarising " are replaced by the words "the Commission shall inform the Committee of". (2) Article 58 is replaced by the following: Article 58 Information from Member States to the Commission The competent authorities of the Member States shall inform the Commission and the competent authorities of the other Member States: a) of any authorisation of a direct or indirect subsidiary, one or more parent undertakings of which are governed by the laws of a third country; b) whenever such a parent undertaking acquires a holding in a Community assurance undertaking which would turn the latter into its subsidiary. When the authorisation referred to in point (a) of the first paragraph is granted to the direct or indirect subsidiary of one or more parent undertakings governed by the law of a third country, the structure of the group shall be specified in the notification which the competent authorities shall address to the Commission and to the other competent authorities. (3) In Article 65, paragraphs 1 and 3 are deleted. Chapter III Amendments to Directives 85/611/EEC and 2001/34/EC on the securities sector Article 9 Directive 85/611/EEC Directive 85/611/EEC is amended as follows: (1) Article 6c is amended as follows: a) in paragraph 9, the last sentence is replaced by the following: Every two years the Commission shall issue a report on such cases. b) in paragraph 10, the last sentence is replaced by the following: Every two years the Commission shall issue a report on such cases. (2) In Article 14(6), the second subparagraph is deleted. (3) In Article 21(4), the last sentence is replaced by the following: "Such information shall be the subject of exchanges of views within the European Securities Committee ." (4) In the third subparagraph of Article 22(4), the last sentence is replaced by the following: Such communications may be the subject of exchanges of views within the European Securities Committee. (5) The title of Section X is replaced by the following: European Securities Committee (6) Article 53 is deleted. (7) Article 53a is replaced by the following: Article 53a The technical amendments to be made to this Directive in the following areas, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 53b(2): a) clarification of the definitions in order to ensure uniform application of this Directive throughout the Community; b) alignment of terminology and the framing of definitions in accordance with subsequent acts on UCITS and related matters. (8) The following Article 53b is inserted: Article 53b 1. The Commission shall be assisted by the European Securities Committee instituted by Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse)*, hereinafter "the