Answer given by Mr Cioloș on behalf of the Commission (22 April 2010) The Commission points out that, under the laws of the European Union, direct taxation falls essentially within the competence of the EU Member States. The only limitation to the fiscal sovereignty of the Member States lies in the fact that, in the exercise of their taxation rights, they must respect their obligations under the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU (hereinafter: the TFEU) and are therefore not allowed to discriminate on the basis of nationality or to apply unjustified restrictions to the exercise of the freedoms guaranteed by the TFEU. Thus, subject to these parameters, Member States are in principle free to design their taxation systems as they choose and as best fit their preferences. Thus any proposal for EU action in the tax field needs to take account of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, meaning that there should only be action at EU level where action by individual Member States could not provide an effective solution. It is consequently up to the national authorities to make a judgment whether providing tax incentives would be an appropriate way of trying to reduce food waste. In this particular context, moreover, it is also questionable whether there are taxes that could effectively serve such purpose. Environmental taxes do not seem to be an appropriate tool since an environmental tax is defined as a tax whose tax base is a physical unit of something that has a proven, specific negative impact on the environment. Non-tax approaches to this issue might, thus, be more appropriate. With regard to non-tax approaches, the Commission informs that, for more that two decades public stocks of agricultural products have been released through the EU food distribution programme for the most deprived persons. This has become the single largest food distribution programme in the EU: it is estimated that in 2008 more than 300 000 tonnes of foods were distributed to more than 14 million beneficiaries across the EU. Together with other NGOs, the Food Banks are instrumental in securing the final distribution of these foods to people in need. Because the Commission found itself confronted with the need to adapt the scheme to the new prevailing conditions, it proposed a modification of its basic rules in 2008 COM(2008)563 final. . Furthermore, the single Common Market Organisation Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007 (OJ L 299, 16.11.2007). provides support for crisis prevention and management measures in the fruit and vegetables sector implemented under the framework of operational programmes of the Producer Organisations (POs), including, among others, market withdrawals, green harvesting and non-harvesting. Withdrawals are co-financed on a 50/50 basis by the EU/PO (60 % EU support in specific cases such as for New Member States). For withdrawals destined for free distribution through charitable organisations, schools, hospitals and similar institutions EU financial assistance in the case of free distribution is 100 % for quantities up to 5 % of the total volume of marketed production of the PO. This covers compensation for the withdrawn products in EUR/100 kg