had been set: - motions for resolution: Wednesday 02.04.2008 at 12.00; - joint motions for resolutions and amendments: Monday 07.04.2008 at 12.00. 4 Results of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 March 2008) (debate) European Council report and Commission statement: Results of the European Council (Brussels, 13-14 March 2008) Janez Janša (President-in-Office of the Council) and José Manuel Barroso (President of the Commission) made the statements. The following spoke: Joseph Daul , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Martin Schulz , on behalf of the PSE Group, Adina-Ioana Vălean , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Brian Crowley , on behalf of the UEN Group, Rebecca Harms , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Dimitrios Papadimoulis , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Johannes Blokland , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Roger Helmer , Non-attached Member, Giles Chichester , Hannes Swoboda , Lena Ek , Mario Borghezio , Ilda Figueiredo , Jens-Peter Bonde , Irena Belohorská , Othmar Karas , Linda McAvan , Diana Wallis , Zbigniew Krzysztof Kuźmiuk , Philip Claeys , Elmar Brok , Udo Bullmann , Mojca Drčar Murko , Lambert van Nistelrooij , Genowefa Grabowska , Anneli Jäätteenmäki , Avril Doyle , Péter Olajos and Jerzy Buzek . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Zita Pleštinská , Evelyne Gebhardt , Csaba Sándor Tabajdi , Marie Anne Isler Béguin and Ewa Tomaszewska . The following spoke: Janez Janša and José Manuel Barroso . The debate closed. 5 Welcome On behalf of Parliament, the President welcomed the members of a delegation from the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile led by its Speaker, Karma Chophel, who had taken their seats in the distinguished visitors' gallery. 6 Situation in Tibet (debate) Council and Commission statements: Situation in Tibet The President made an introductory statement in which he emphasised that the European Parliament had long supported respect for human rights in Tibet. Making reference to the incidents that had taken place in Lhasa and elsewhere since 10 March 2008, he condemned, on Parliament's behalf, all forms of violence and declared his solidarity with the Dalai Lama, who had accepted an invitation to come to the European Parliament in December 2008 as part of the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. He underlined the importance of dialogue between the European Union and China and expressed the hope that the Beijing Olympic Games would be a success, while emphasising that certain conditions had to be fulfilled, particularly as regards respect for the cultural and religious identity of the Tibetan people and freedom of the press. Janez Lenarčič (President-in-Office of the Council) and Benita Ferrero-Waldner (Member of the Commission) made the statements. The following spoke: József Szájer , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Pasqualina Napoletano , on behalf of the PSE Group, Marco Pannella , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Cristiana Muscardini , on behalf of the UEN Group, Daniel Cohn-Bendit , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Vittorio Agnoletto , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Patrick Louis , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Bruno Gollnisch , Non-attached Member, Charles Tannock , Józef Pinior ,