in a multiannual programme accepted by the Council and Parliament, can be reduced in the following years (link with next year's budget); - the amount corresponds to a political priority of the budgetary authority, if the budget line shows a good implementation (Parliament and Council). 14. Apart from this approach which, if adopted by Parliament, would be implemented in a flexible way, Parliament should recognise that the transfers are a powerful tool to optimise the European financial resources and it would be most inappropriate if Parliament reduced the impact of the transfers. The transfers have to be used in order to continue and adapt the budgetary policy of Parliament and Council voted in December. 15. On this approach your Rapporteur would like to take the opportunity to make a more institutional reflection. The European Parliament has been given an important role on budgetary matters by the Treaty. This role reflects the need to guarantee a democratic representation and a balance between the needs of the citizens and their interests as taxpayers. The future Convention should reflect how to reinforce this role. EP fulfils this role with a high sense of responsibility but the Council has to respect this balance of competencies and not try to jeopardise it through unilateral changes of the rules (i.e. Financial Regulation; transfers, SAB, reserves....). 16. Your Rapporteur is convinced that Parliament must strongly defend its own prerogatives but increase at the same time the co-operation with Council on the condition that the balance between the two Institutions is maintained. In the case that this balance is put in danger, Parliament should fully use the budgetary competencies established by the EU Treaty. 17. To conclude on this point your Rapporteur considers that even Council priorities in non-compulsory expenditure, which may appear in the course of the year, can be financed through transfer procedures. 18. Your Rapporteur wants to draw the committee’s attention on some concrete aspects of the transfers expected in the next months: - appropriations entered into the reserve of budget line B5-822 (Europol), € 5,0 million: the Justice and Home Affairs Council has indicated that Europol will not require the transfers of these appropriations. It is clear that the fight against international terrorism and crime, particularly in the light of 11 September, cannot be left only to individual states. There is clearly a need for Community action in this field. However, if Member States confirm that this money cannot be effectively used by Europol, the rapporteur would of course consider the transfer to other areas of the budget. In this case, and also in future when appropriations could be made available via transfers, the EP should urge the Commission to request a transfer of this amount to reinforce the EP's priorities. 19. A last point concerning the transfers of the second semester is the calendar: the committee on budgets has always stressed the need to improve the link between the current budget and the preparation of next year's budget. In order to render this possible, the Commission should present the first evaluation and forecast of the