13 November 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Pasqualina Napoletano on behalf of the PSE Group on the preparations for the VIth Meeting of Euro-Mediterranean Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Naples on 2 and 3 December 2003 European Parliament resolution on the preparations for the VIth Meeting of Euro-Mediterranean Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Naples on 2 and 3 December 2003 The European Parliament , – having regard to the Barcelona Declaration and the work programme of 28 November 1995 adopted at the Barcelona Conference, – having regard to its earlier resolutions on Mediterranean policy, with particular reference to that of 11 April 2002 on the meeting of Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers in Valencia on 22 and 23 April 2002 OJ C 127 E, 29.5.2003, p. 644. , – having regard to the Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament to prepare the VI Meeting of Euro-Mediterranean Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Naples, 2-3 December 2003, – having regard to the Communication of 11 March 2003 from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on 'Wider Europe - Neighbourhood: A New Framework for Relations with our Eastern and Southern Neighbours' ( COM(2003) 104 ), – having regard to its resolution of 23 October 2003 on peace and dignity in the Middle East P5_TA-PROV(2003)0462. , – having regard to the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 'Wider Europe - Neighbourhood: A New Framework for Relations with our Eastern and Southern Neighbours' ( A5-0378/2003 ), – having regard to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure, A. whereas over recent years the European Union has focused its attention on the enlargement process and to a certain extent left the Barcelona Process to its own devices, B. whereas the Israeli-Palestinian conflict continues to stand as a barrier to more harmonious development of the Barcelona Process, C. whereas Euro-Mediterranean parliamentary dialogue initially took place within a parliamentary forum bringing together representatives of the peoples of the two shores of the Mediterranean and whereas the forum's conversion into a parliamentary assembly (EMPA) forms part of the action programme of the VIth Meeting of Euro-Mediterranean Ministers of Foreign Affairs to be held on 2 and 3 December 2003 in Naples, D. whereas the European Union's Mediterranean policy complements and underpins the new neighbourhood policy, E. whereas further progress needs to be made as regards respect for democracy and human rights, 1. Reaffirms the crucial need to ensure, through dialogue, mutual awareness and understanding, the stability of the Euro-Mediterranean area with a view to improving its inhabitants' living conditions and maintaining peace; 2. Is strongly in favour of closer parliamentary cooperation and calls on all the Member States to help step up Euro-Mediterranean parliamentary dialogue; advocates the establishment of the EMPA, which is the most suitable instrument for this purpose, and calls for the Ministerial Conference in Naples to approve the conversion of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Forum into a parliamentary assembly with consultative powers; 3. Believes that the EMPA's