the growth of the knowledge economy, by research and innovation capacities, including new information and communication technologies. R&D and innovation can help the European Union to achieve its growth objectives. That is why cohesion policy also targets investments that strengthen the long term competitiveness of the EU, such as entrepreneurship, access to finance for SMEs, human capital, ICT, green technology and energy efficiency. Consequently, between 2007 and 2013, EU cohesion policy tripled its financial allocation to R&D and innovation compared to the previous programming period, earmarking more than €85 billion (almost 25% of the total) to these categories of expenditure, including the mainstreaming of innovative actions and experimentation. Out of this total, · €50.5 billion was allocated to R&D and innovation in the narrow sense, · €8.3 billion to entrepreneurship , · €13.2 billion to innovative information and communication technologies to foster the demand side of ICT, · €14.5 billion to human capital. An effective analysis of the implementation process of the 246 national or regional Operational Programmes, within which innovation is a relevant component, is not really possible until the publication by the European Commission (most probably in April 2010) of the Strategic Report: promoting an EU debate on cohesion. This Strategic Report required by art. 30 of the General Regulation, based on the Strategic Reports of all 27 Member States, will offer a first overview on the progress the countries and their regions are making in delivering agreed objectives for the period 2007 – 2009, including high level EU objectives, on the impact of the on-going crisis on implementing cohesion policy programmes and will provide a concrete framework for the debate on the future of cohesion policy. The report will also identify examples of good practices in the Member States. Synergies between Structural Funds, FP7 and CIP The complexity of the challenges the EU faces today calls for an integrated mix of policies; so as to reinforce the impact of individual policies and increase efficiency in spending available resources. The Community Strategic Guidelines confirm that synergy between cohesion policy and framework programmes is essential and add that in this context cohesion policy has two roles to play: facilitating the implementation of regional innovation strategies and action plans; and contributing to building up innovation and research capacity in the regions. As a general conclusion of the analysis of the current architecture of cohesion, research and innovation policy instruments, it has to be noted, that some elements, such as the same time frame and alignment with the Lisbon agenda allow for synergies. However, there are still significant differences, such as different legal basis, and the involvement of different administrative levels and authorities in the implementation process. These differences make it difficult for beneficiaries to be well informed about the diverse funding opportunities. In this respect, it would be necessary to ensure that bodies involved in managing FP7, CIP and the Structural Funds are aware of the possibilities offered by each of these instruments. Even though synergies between policies go beyond complementary project funding, it is important to understand the possibilities to combine