31 January 2002 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Council and Commission statements pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Didier Rod, Paul A.A.J.G. Lannoye, Nelly Maes, Caroline Lucas, Inger Schörling and Heidi Anneli Hautala on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group on the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development (FfD) in Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 European Parliament resolution on the United Nations Conference on Financing for Development (FfD) in Monterrey, Mexico, 18-22 March 2002 The European Parliament, A. considering that for the first time in history the UN is organising a world summit on Financing for Development, B. having regard to the fact that the EU is the biggest donor of aid, a major shareholder on the international financial institutions, and the most important trading partner for the developing countries, C. having regard to the Göteborg European Council commitment 'to reach the UN target of ODA of 0,7% of GNP as soon as possible and to achieve concrete progress in this area before the World Summit on Sustainable Development', D. having regard to the Development Council declaration of 8 November 2001 on the preparation for the UN Conference on FfD, confirming 'the great importance which the European Union attaches to the success of the FfD and the World Summit for Sustainable Development' in Johannesburg in September 2002, E. having regard to the United Nations Millennium Goals, notably 'to halve, by the year 2015, the proportion of the world's people whose income is less than one dollar a day and the proportion of people who suffer from hunger', F. having regard to the Brussels Programme of Action for LDCs and the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development of Small Island Developing Countries, G. amazed at the early agreement over a so-called 'Monterrey Consensus' at the fourth PrepCom in New York on 27 January 2002, seven weeks before the actual summit and considered as 'successful experience' by the negotiating states (§61), 1. Is appalled by the fact that although the conference participants recognise 'the necessity for a substantial increase in ODA and other resources if developing countries are to achieve the internationally agreed development goals' (§34), the 'Consensus' presented to the international public is void of the least concrete financial measure apt to alter the fate of a single starving person; 2. Calls on the UN members, and particularly on the Spanish Presidency and the European Commission, negotiating on the EU members' behalf, either to come up with significant concrete proposals on how to raise financing for development until March or else to cancel the Monterrey Summit and to continue negotiations with a view to finalisation at the WSSD in Johannesburg in September; 3. Supports the EU's insistence on including explicit reference to sustainable, gender-sensitive and people-centred development, especially for the poor (§5 a.a.), as well as the protection of all human rights and the prevention and resolution of conflicts, and regrets that the latter demands have not been incorporated in the text; 4. Notes, however, that trade and financial liberalisation, deregulation and privatisation stick out