to be honoured; RIGHTS 2. Reaffirms its commitment to respect and ensure compliance with the principle of the right of everyone everywhere to a sufficient amount of healthy food; 3. Reaffirms the need to recognise the right to food as a fundamental human right; 4. Calls on the Member States to adopt an international code of conduct on the right to adequate food; 5. Reaffirms the need to respect the principle of food sovereignty, under which each country must have the right freely to choose the means by which it secures food supplies in line with its collective national or regional interests, without disrupting the markets of other countries; 6. Calls for measures to respect and enforce international humanitarian law, and recalls that, under Article 54 of additional protocol 1 to the Geneva Conventions, the starvation of civilians as a method of warfare is forbidden; GLOBAL PUBLIC ASSETS 7. Calls on the international community to declare water and biodiversity to be global public assets; water and genetic resources must be managed in a sustainable manner, must not be privatised and must be declared the common heritage of mankind and thus a global public asset; COMBATING POVERTY 8. Calls for measures to be taken to combat poverty, reduce disparities and provide access to resources, striving in particular to combat gender discrimination; 9. Calls for the resources available for reducing disparities to be stepped up, including cancellation of debt, meeting ODA (official development aid) commitments and creating new resources through appropriate taxation measures; 10. Proposes that access to sufficient food and means of production (land, inputs, credit) should be guaranteed; providing access to resources is one of the most reliable ways of securing the right to food; 11. Calls for local production networks to be strengthened so as to provide food security for urban populations living in unstable conditions; farming on the outskirts of cities must be protected from urban development and more sustained programmes are therefore needed to develop this kind of farming; SUSTAINABLE FARMING METHODS 12. Reaffirms the need to promote sustainable farming methods; 13. Calls on the Member States to allow freedom of choice as regards new technologies; 14. Calls on the Member States to ratify and apply the Cartagena protocol on biosafety; 15. Calls for the right of free access to genetic resources to be recognised; SUSTAINABLE FISHING METHODS 16. Calls for the development of sustainable fishing that will enable fish stocks to be preserved; 17. Calls for small-scale fishing and local aquaculture to be recognised and promoted; 18. Calls for a review of EU fisheries agreements; PROMOTING MORE EQUITABLE TRADE IN AGRICULTURE AND FOOD PRODUCTS 19. Underscores the need to protect peasant farming by establishing border protection mechanisms, which means in particular strengthening the special and differentiated treatment based on GATT which was incorporated in the Marrakesh agreements and reaffirmed at Doha; 20. Wishes to encourage the establishment of protected regional areas, along the lines of the European model, in order to promote intra-regional trade; 21. Calls for international trade to be regulated; this would involve restricting practices by