forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the European Ombudsman, and the other institutions and bodies concerned. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT 1. At the beginning of the year, the committee on Budgets decided to have a report in July in order to reinforce its policy of closely monitoring the implementation of the budget. This approach has become even more relevant in view of three elements: - the financial perspective for 2000-2006 does not allow the possibility to develop new European policies. For the first time since 1988, there is no increase of the own resources ceiling; - the new responsibility given to COBU, in the EP Rules of Procedure, to decide on all transfers; - EP efforts to improve Commission performance in the implementation. 2. This activity of scrutiny is strictly linked with the preparation of the Budget 2003. For this reason a number of joint initiatives have been taken by the Rapporteurs of the committee on budgets, and of the spending committees, in order to monitor specific policies. This approach started in 2001 and should be further developed. 3. Such initiatives are also useful when assessing the Commission's proposals for SABs and transfers for the 2002 Budget. A more detailed analysis of certain budgetary headings, often prompted by warning signals in terms of poor implementation, is already carried out by COBU in collaboration with the specialised committees. In this way, problem areas can hopefully be identified and the EP could thus 'anticipate' areas that are likely to be affected. Your rapporteur would like to see an improvement of the information provided by the Commission for each transfer. Also, the officials responsible for both the increased and the decreased lines should present the reasons at COBU meetings or to the special evaluation groups set up with the budgetary rapporteurs of specialised committees. 4. Your Rapporteur considers that this report should have two aims: - to state the situation of the first semester; - to provide orientations for the second semester. The final aim is to reinforce control over the Commission in order to improve the quantity and the quality of the budgetary implementation. The European Parliament has been given, by the Treaties, the responsibility of the establishment of the Budget of the European Union. In order that this competence is not undermined, it is necessary that the implementation of the Budget reflect as much as possible the voted budget. 5. Even if the voted budget is based on a number of assumptions, i.e. requests from Member States or other beneficiaries, the Commission as the implementing authority should make all efforts to implement the budget as decided by the budgetary authority and be prepared to inform the budgetary authority when the implementation diverts. 6. In order to follow this approach of monitoring, your Rapporteur suggests analysing in the report, the use the Commission makes of the different budgetary tools. SUPPLEMENTARY AND AMENDING BUDGETS (SABs) 7. The Commission, according to the current Financial Regulation, has the obligation