relevant international organisations, notably IAEA) in the above fields, including the implementation and monitoring of international Conventions and Treaties, exchange of information , training , education and research. Amendment 19 Article 5, paragraph 2 2. These action programmes shall specify the objectives pursued, the fields of intervention, the measures envisaged, the expected results, the management procedures and total amount of financing planned. They shall contain a summary description of the operations to be financed, an indication of the amounts allocated for each operation and an indicative implementation timetable. Where relevant , they may include the results of any lessons learned from previous assistance. 2. These action programmes shall specify the objectives pursued, the fields of intervention, the measures envisaged, the expected results, the management procedures and total amount of financing planned. They shall contain a summary description of the operations to be financed, an indication of the amounts allocated for each operation and an indicative implementation timetable. Where applicable , they shall include the results of any lessons learned from previous assistance. Amendment 20 Article 5, paragraph 3 3. Action programmes, and any revisions or extensions thereof, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 20 (2), following, where appropriate, consultation with the partner country, or partner countries in the region, concerned. 3. Action programmes, and any revisions or extensions thereof, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 20 (2) and with account being taken of Article 18 , following, where appropriate, consultation with the partner country, or partner countries in the region, concerned. Amendment 21 Article 7, paragraph 1, indent 5 - European Union agencies; - the Community's Joint Research Centre and European Union agencies; Amendment 22 Article 8, paragraph 1, indent 6 - debt-relief programmes; - debt-relief programmes , in exceptional cases and pursuant to an internationally agreed debt relief programme ; Amendment 23 Article 8, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. Community financing shall in principle not be used for paying taxes, customs duties or other fiscal charges in beneficiary countries. Amendment 24 Article 18 The Commission shall regularly evaluate the results of policies and programmes and the effectiveness of programming in order to ascertain whether the objectives have been met and enable it to formulate recommendations with a view to improving future operations. The Commission shall send significant evaluation reports to the Committee established in accordance with Article 20. The Commission , with the help of independent experts, shall regularly evaluate , on an individual project basis , the results of policies and programmes and the effectiveness of programming in order to ascertain whether the objectives have been met and enable it to formulate recommendations with a view to improving future operations. The Commission shall send significant evaluation reports to the European Parliament, the Council and the Committee established in accordance with Article 20. Amendment 25 Article 20 a (new) Article 20a Financial reference amount The financial reference amount for implementation of this Regulation for the period 2007-2013 shall be EUR 524 million. Annual appropriations shall be authorised by the