contained in the document the Committee nevertheless considers that on a number of points it is open to criticism. Although it acknowledges that the document is filled with good intentions the committee is inclined to be sceptical in the light of past experience. Recalling the old Italian adage 'Fra il dire e il fare c'è di mezzo un mare ' ('easier said than done') which means that good intentions will be judged by results, since all too often such intentions are merely voiced without being put into practice. II. No mention of petitions to Parliament and complaints to the Ombudsman: significant 'oversights' The Commission sets out by stating that the document is concerned with all Community institutions while understandably giving particular attention to its own area of activity, since it has the power of initiative and is responsible for administering Community policies, while also fulfilling the role of guardian of the Treaties. However, the Commission sometimes seems to forget completely the existence of other institutions or bodies within the European Parliament itself. Not even a passing reference is made to the European Ombudsman and his role in processing complaints. On the contrary, the Commission concentrates on its own action in response to complaints from citizens. No mention is made of the institution of the petition and the role of Parliament, despite the fact that the Commission itself makes a decisive contribution to the analysis and processing of petitions. To coin a phrase, the right hand appears to be forgetting what the left hand is doing. All this appears inconsistent with the Commission's repeated recommendations and exhortations to 'stay tuned' to the individual citizen, 'engage in dialogue', make use of the consultation procedures, etc. The Commission' s comments (p. 30 and inset) concerning ' priorities for the consideration of possible infringement of Community law are of particular interest '. While one can only agree with them it would nevertheless have been gratifying to find even a passing reference to the role played by the Committee on Petitions concerning the 'verification of the situation and of the quality of measures taken to transpose directives', 'compatibility of national law with the fundamental principles of Community law' or infringement proceedings before the Court of Justice. The Committee on Petitions is taking bold initiatives to promote the institution of the petition in the interests of the citizen, the rule of law and legal certainty: a subject which it has covered in numerous opinions expressed in recent years. Its recent report on ' the institution of the petition at the dawn of the 21 st century ' and the report being drawn up 'on the right of petition of the European citizen: underpinned by amendment of the Treaty' contain a number of proposals seeking to bring the citizen closer to the Union, strengthening the only institutions which provide an interinstitutional channel recognised by the European citizens: petitions to Parliament and complaints to the Ombudsman. The European Parliament has recently adopted a report – following on from a special report by the European Ombudsman – on a code of