Mr DUGGAN WE-FILE 14; Ms KNOWD, H2). German financial regulators In Germany, the 'Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht' (BaFin) took over responsibility from the 'Bundesaufsichtsamt für das Versicherungswesen' (BAV) in May 2002. Like the Irish regulators, Mr STEFFEN from BaFin stressed in H6 that financial supervision, including that of business carried on through branches, is the sole responsibility of the home Member State. With regard to the regulation of Equitable's conduct of business in Germany, Mr STEFFEN from BaFin (H6) said that in 1992, when the Equitable Life branch was licensed, BaFin's predecessor BAV sent out documents to ELAS, which " included stipulations and rules, which have to be observed in Germany ". " They deal in particular with such questions as may have an effect on consumers. " As examples, he stated " model calculations showing how surpluses must be calculated" and " what advertising campaigns were allowed in Germany ". Furthermore, Mr WEYER in WE 85 Page 21. indicates that BaFin's predecessor BAV in 1996 and 2000 communicated to EC insurance undertakings active on the German market under the Third Life Directive (including Equitable Life) a list of regulations that had to be complied with by these undertakings. " They ... [issued] requirements for German rules on conduct of business to be followed by ELAS German branch business in 1996 and 2000 " (WE 85 Page 4. ). The committee has not received detailed information as to the applicable requirements in terms of information disclosure. In connection with advertising, Mr STEFFEN referred to an intervention by BaFin in response to an advertisement by ELAS, which appeared in German newspapers in 2000, promising 13% return to prospective policyholders: " We ... discussed the matter with the Society, challenging and criticising the advert, and the Society gave us an assurance that it would immediately withdraw the advertising campaign. The main reason for our intervention was that we believed, and still believe, that the promise of a 13% return in the year 2000 was misleading and that the term ‘return’ gave the impression that it was guaranteed. ... We therefore thought that this advertising was misleading and for that reason we put an end to it ." When asked whether the German regulator informed the FSA of the incident, Mr STEFFEN replied hat " I do not personally have any knowledge that the then authority informed the FSA of the banning of this advertising campaign. ... It was not possible to get complete clarification of this question in the talks with my colleagues ". BaFin provided copies of letters, which BAV had sent to ELAS' German branch concerning the controversial advertisement (see WE-CONF 17). In its first letter dated 12 April 2000, BAV asks for general explanations with regard to the promise of a 13% return. On 29 May 2000 BAV sent another letter, stating that the explanations given by ELAS had not been satisfactory and asking for proof that the 13% return was in fact guaranteed. On 31 July 2000, at a time when the House of Lords had already handed down its judgement