agreement". Death sentence on Afghan journalist Perwiz Kambakhsh Perwiz Kambakhsh, a journalist in Afghanistan, is under a death sentence for circulating an article on women's rights in Islam. The European Parliament, reaffirming its opposition to the death penalty in general, calls for his execution to be prevented and also for the Afghan government to improve its judicial system and comply with the Universal Declaration on Human Rights. On 22 January 2008 a regional court in northern Afghanistan sentenced 23-year-old Mr Kambakhsh to death for circulating an article about women’s rights in Islam which he had downloaded from the internet. The judges ruled that the article constituted 'blasphemy' and sentenced Mr Kambakhsh to death. Mr Kambakhsh was denied legal representation, sentenced without a proper hearing, allegedly beaten and threatened with execution until he signed a confession. The resolution notes that journalists in Afghanistan, especially women, are increasingly faced with intimidation, death threats, abduction and violence, even though Afghanistan’s Constitution clearly defends the right to freedom of expression. EP's total opposition to death penalty Parliament "reaffirms its unconditional opposition to the death penalty". It notes that the death sentence against Perwiz Kambakhsh comes despite the UN General Assembly’s call for a worldwide moratorium on the death penalty and at a time when a total of 135 countries have abolished the death penalty. The resolution condemns Mr Kambakhsh's arrest and calls for him to be released. It also calls on the Afghan authorities to prevent his execution and on President Karzai, if the court of appeal upholds the death sentence, to pardon him. In addition, MEPs call on the President and Parliament of Afghanistan "to speed up the development of a functional penal and judicial system based on international standards" and they welcome the announcement by the EU External Relations Commissioner of immediate financial support to help Afghanistan strengthen the rule of law and reform its judiciary. Lastly, the resolution calls on the Afghan Government "to fully respect the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and to ensure that freedom of expression is fully guaranteed and upheld for all citizens in Afghanistan". The plight of Mehdi Kazemi MEPs demand that a solution be found to the situation of Mehdi Kazemi, a 19-year-old gay Iranian citizen, who faces the prospect of deportation from Europe back to Iran, where he could be tortured and even executed because of his sexual orientation. Mehdi Kazemi requested asylum in the United Kingdom but had his application turned down. Fearing deportation, he fled to the Netherlands, where he also applied for asylum. The Dutch authorities, after examining his request, have decided to send him back to Britain because, under EU rules (the Dublin Regulation), asylum applications must be processed in the first EU country in which the applicant made an application. It is feared the UK will simply deport him to Iran. A solution for Mehdi Kazemi … The resolution, adopted by 46 votes to 2 with 12 abstentions, points out that the Iranian authorities "routinely detain, torture and execute persons, notably homosexuals" and that "Mehdi's partner has already been