Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (15 June 2010) Member States have the primary responsibility for healthcare provision, including treatment of allergies. Therefore, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the responsiblity for the organisation and financing of health services and medical care lies with the Member States. The EU supports Member States healthcare policies and fosters research. In this context, the EU has provided extensive support for research projects aimed at the study and therapy of allergy-associated diseases within the framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (FP) The overview of the projects related to study and treatment of allergy funded under FP5 and FP6 programmes can be found at http://ec.europa.eu/research/allergy/index.htm . Within the 6th and 7th Framework Programmes, a number of research projects are dealing with aspects related to epidemiology and costs of allergies across Europe. This includes for example, the effect that diet, lifestyle, infection and genetics have on the immune response, early exposure to infection and allergens and its effect on allergy later in life. An estimated EU research budget of EUR 30 million is currently supporting European research in this area. The ongoing 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP7, 2007–13) undertakes collaborative translational research in major diseases including allergies. Six projects on allergy and asthma-related topics with total EU funding of ca. EUR 42 000 000 were selected for financing and grant agreements are currently under negotiation. Under the FP7, the Commission is supporting a research project Biomarkers for Post Market Monitoring of Short and Long-Term Effects of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOS) on Animal and Human Health; http://www.gmsafood.org aiming at identifying a panel of biomarkers, including allergenic and immunogenic ones, which could be used to predict harmful GMO effects after product authorisation. Experiments carried out within this project are expected to yield data on general health with a specific focus on allergy and immunology. Moreover, it has to be stressed that for the submission of a new genetically modified organism for food and feed uses in the EU, the applicant has to provide within its application a risk assessment on the potential allergenic adverse effect of the GM food/feed on human and animal health. Allergenicity is one of the main criteria which is taken into consideration when assessing and authorising a new GMO in the EU. Gmsafood ‘Biomarkers for post market monitoring of short and long-term effects of genetically modified organisms on animal and human health’ is a research project funded with EUR 2.6 million under Theme 2 ‘Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and Biotechnology’ in the specific programme Cooperation of FP7. Scientists in Austria, Ireland, Norway, Hungary, Turkey and Australia have established a consortium to study the influence of genetically modified foods on health and well-being. The objective of the project is the development of biomarkers that could be followed after a GM food is released on the market in order to monitor the GMO-induced immunogenic and allergenic response in animals and humans, which could be used to predict harmful GM food effects after product