restoration and maintenance of buildings designated by National Authorities as being of particular historical value, Member States may licence the use of special paints, which do not meet the solvent limit values laid down in Annex II. (2) In the tri-annual reports according to Article 7 of the proposal, Member States shall inform the Commission about the number of licences granted and the nature and volume of the special paints licensed according to paragraph 1. Justification Without these derogations, there shall not be any authentic paint to restore historic buildings. Amendment 23 Article 5 a (new) NEW Article 5 (a) Substitution . 1. The Commission shall ensure that an exchange of information between Member States on the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products and their potential substitutes takes place. It shall consider the questions of: - fitness for use, - potential effects on human health and occupational exposure in particular, and - potential effects on the environment, and - the economic consequences, in particular, the costs and benefits of the options available, with a view to providing guidance on the use of products and techniques which have the least detrimental effects on air, water, soil, ecosystems and human health. The exchange of information shall be made publicly available on the Commission's internet. Every two years, the Commission shall publish updated guidance for each product category Justification This new article is largely identical to Article 7 of Directive 1999/13/EC on the limitation of emissions of VOCs due to the use of organic solvents in certain activities and installations. The exchange of information on best available technology and potential substitutes is an important tool for innovation and for use in future revisions of the directive. Such information should be facilitated, made publicly available, and updated guidance documents should be published regularly Amendment 24 Article 6, second paragraph Member States shall use national methods of determination of the VOC content if relevant CEN or ISO methods are not available . Member States shall use the available CEN or ISO11890 for determination of the VOC content. Justification As specific ISO standards (ISO 11890) are available for the determination of the VOC content of paints and varnishes, this standard should be specified as the method to be used for the purposes of applying the Directive, thereby avoiding the risk of obstacles to the free movement of goods being created by the application of particular national methods for determining the VOC content. Amendment 25 Article 7, 1st paragraph (a) (new) 1a The Commission shall submit a report, no later than (2 years after implementation date), assessing the actual and anticipated reduction in ozone formation as a result of this Directive. Justification To ensure effectiveness of the legislation. Amendment 26 Article 8 Member States shall not, prohibit, restrict or prevent the placing on the market of products which comply with the requirements of this Directive. Without prejudice to existing measures taken at Community or national level to protect the health of workers when using the products referred to in this Directive, Member