this Directive are applied. 3. If a Member State designates more than one competent authority to enforce a provision of this Directive, their respective roles shall be clearly defined and they shall cooperate closely. Each Member State shall ensure that such cooperation also takes place between the competent authorities for the purposes of this Directive and the competent authorities responsible in that Member State for the supervision of credit and other financial institutions and insurance undertakings. Member States shall ensure that those authorities exchange any information which is essential or relevant for the exercise of their duties. Article 47 Powers to be made available to competent authorities 1. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities possess all supervisory, investigatory and enforcement powers necessary for the exercise of their functions. They shall exercise such powers in conformity with national law, either directly or, where appropriate, in cooperation with other authorities, including judicial authorities. In particular, Member States shall ensure that competent authorities have at least the powers to: a) have access to any document in any form whatsoever; b) request additional information from any person, investment firm or regulated market, and if needed to summon and question a person with a view to obtaining information; c) carry out on-site inspections; d) require existing telephone and data traffic records; e) require cessation of a practice that is contrary to the provisions laid down pursuant to this Directive; f) request the freezing and/or the sequestration of assets; g) request temporary prohibition of professional activity; h) require authorised entities" auditors to provide information; i) adopt any type of measure to ensure that authorised entities continue to comply with the legal requirements; j) demand the suspension of trading in a financial instrument; k) demand the removal of a financial instrument from trading, whether on a regulated market or under other trading arrangements; l) seek judicial orders and take other action to ensure compliance with these regulatory, administrative and investigation powers; m) impose administrative sanctions; n) initiate or refer matters for criminal prosecution. 2. Member States shall ensure that competent authorities have the adequate resources for the exercise of their functions, and that the staff of such authorities observe professional standards and are subject to appropriate internal procedures or rules of conduct which ensure, in particular, the protection of personal data, procedural fairness and the proper observance of confidentiality and secrecy provisions. Article 48 Sanctions 1. Without prejudice to the procedures for the withdrawal of authorisation or to the right of Member States to impose criminal penalties, Member States shall ensure, in conformity with their national law, that the competent authorities take appropriate administrative measures or impose administrative sanctions in respect of the persons responsible where the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive have not been complied with. Member States shall ensure that these measures are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. 2. Member States shall determine the sanctions to be applied for failure to co-operate in an investigation. 3. Member States shall provide that the competent authority may disclose to the public any measure or sanction that will