the Internal Market, to create transparency for the market and to help coordination among national authorities. Fourthly, it is necessary to foresee a higher minimum share capital requirement for the SPE as a means guarantee creditors. Since a minimum capital may not be sufficient to guarantee the creditors it would be useful to foresee also a mandatory "solvency certificate". Fifthly, since the decision to transfer the seat of the company should be taken primarily on economic and legal grounds there is a need for setting out clearly the decision making procedure for taking such decisions. This has to be complemented by a complete set of rules regarding transformation, merger and division, dissolution, nullity as well as of accounting for the SPE to be viable and attractive for the small business within the Internal Market. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs calls on the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (2a) The regime for private companies (SPE regime) should be viable and simple, appropriate and consistent with the objectives, and benefit from the advantages, of the internal market. The regime should include a specific taxation and accounting scheme and specific rules on liquidation, insolvency, transformation, mergers, divisions, dissolution and nullity in order to leave as few matters as possible to national company law, thereby overcoming the burdens and costs associated with compliance with different national laws and the distortions of competition created thereby. Justification There is a need to define a common comprehensive regime specific to the SPE in order to overcome burdens and costs and of compliance with national tax systems, to guarantee a level playing field to all SPE, to avoid distortions of competition. To be viable the SPE should be a fully 28th regime system allowing for harmonization and consistency within the IM avoiding as much as possible reference to different MS national laws. Moreover a single and simple European tax regime will render the SPE form and Statute more attractive for the small businesses. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (2b) In order to ensure uniformity of the SPE regime, the Commission should, by 31 December 2010, put forward specific legislative proposal for an accounting and taxation scheme, encompassing a common tax base and a system of consolidation of profit and losses.. Justification The SPE regime should be viable, consistent with the objectives and advantages of the Internal Market and attractive for the small business. For this purpose there is a need to define a common accounting and tax regime specific to the SPE in order to overcome costs and of compliance with national systems, to guarantee a level playing field to all SPE, to avoid distortion of competitions, harmful tax competition among MS and opportunistic behaviour (for instance, in terms of transfer of seat). Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) Since