support was for democracy and not for one party. " Today we are all Ukrainians speaking the language of democracy and freedom". Ukraine was showing its political maturity and the EU could not stand idle neither could it recognise the results of the elections in the Ukraine. He appealed for a peaceful solution to be found and underlined the importance of safeguarding the territorial integrity of the country. Ukraine, he stated, was a key partner for the EU and it was necessary to "multiply the links between the EU and Ukraine ". If possible, the EU should recognise the market economy in Ukraine and introduce more flexibility in the visa regime. Concluding his speech in Ukrainian, he declared " the European Parliament welcomes democracy in Ukraine ." Martin SCHULZ (DE), for the PES group, agreed with his counterpart from the EPP-ED group and called for free and fair elections. It was easy, he said, to debate the issues in the European Parliament but not so easy on the streets of Kiev. Looking at the pictures broadcast on television was one thing, but it was difficult to truly understand what the people on the ground were living through. " There is fine line between an uprising and a bloodbath and I call for a peaceful resolution to the process ." Maintaining the territorial integrity of the Ukraine was paramount given a " divided Ukraine would have fatal consequences for the whole of Europe ". He stressed that the EU was playing a key role in finding a solution to the crisis which demonstrated the effectiveness of EU foreign policy. Bronisław GEREMEK (PL) for the ALDE group stated that this would be a historic day for both the European Parliament and Europe. He welcomed the fact that many MEPs, from all sides of the House, were wearing orange - " the colour of freedom and liberty ". He too recalled the events of 1980 and 1981 in Gdansk as well as the revolutions in Portugal and Georgia. Ukraine was going through its own peaceful revolution. It was all about liberty and he recalled that the Polish Parliament was the first to welcome representatives of the Ukrainian opposition. The EU, he said, " could not accept lies and we all stand with the people in the streets protesting in Kiev, it was time for Europe to open up to Ukraine ". Rebecca HARMS (DE) spoke for the Greens/EFA group. She said she had just returned from Ukraine and for her it was clear that if there was a threat of violence it was not from the demonstrators but from the old guard. The EU should listen to the demands of the "orange revolutionaries" she said, and press for a re-run of the second round of the elections during December. She called for a larger EP presence in the observation mission for any new elections. The shared European soul, she said, was more present in Kiev than anywhere else today. Francis WURTZ (FR), leader of the GUE/NGL group, said the developments in Ukraine were good for