shall put forward, by 31 December 2010, a legislative proposal for a taxation scheme specific to SPEs, based on a common tax base and a system of consolidation of profit and losses. Justification The SPE regime should be viable, simple and consistent with the objectives and advantages of the Internal Market. There is a need to define a common tax regime specific to the SPE in order to overcome burdens and costs and of compliance with national tax systems, to guarantee a level playing field to all SPE, to avoid distortion of competition and harmful tax competition. To be viable the SPE should be a fully 28th regime system allowing for harmonization and consistency within the IM avoiding as much as possible reference to different MS national laws. Moreover a single and simple European tax regime will render the SPE form and Statute more attractive for the small businesses. Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 4b Accounting scheme The Commission shall put forward, by 31 December 2010, a legislative proposal for an accounting scheme based on accounting rules specific to SPEs. Justification The SPE regime should be viable, simple and consistent with the objectives and advantages of the Internal Market. There is a need to define a common accounting system – complementary to a common tax regime – specific to the SPE in order to overcome burdens and costs and of compliance with national systems, to guarantee a level playing field to all SPE and to avoid distortion of competition. To be viable the SPE should be a fully 28th regime system allowing for harmonization and consistency within the IM avoiding as much as possible reference to different MS national laws. Moreover a single and simple European accounting and tax regime will render the SPE more attractive for the small businesses. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 4c Database Without prejudice to Article 9(1) and Article 46(2), the Commission shall set up and coordinate a database for SPEs, available on a public website, for the purpose of disclosing, collecting and disseminating information and particulars relating to SPEs, concerning, in particular: (a) their registration; (b) their registered office, central administration or principal place of business in the Community and, where appropriate, their branches; (c) their solvency certificates; (d) any the transfer proposal or transfer of their registered office; (e) any registration in the host Member State or removal from the register in the home Member States; (f) any transformation, merger or division; (g) any dissolution. Justification It is important to guarantee disclosure and information at European level about SPEs established within the EU, in order to guarantee consistency between the specific regime of the SPE and the appropriate dimension on the Internal Market, to create transparency for the market and to help coordination among national authorities. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment An SPE shall have its registered office and its central administration