committee believes that the Commission should take a more proactive stance when monitoring national events, in particular when they are related to crucial EC directives. The Commission should closely follow the national media and be in close contact with the relevant stakeholders, in order to detect in time any potential problems in the application of Community law. The committee therefore urges the Commission to make more intensive use of its delegations in the Member States and to investigate closer ways to cooperate with the Member States. Moreover, the vital and symbolic role of EU citizens in the effective monitoring of the application of Community law should be further recognised and strengthened. 43. The committee believes that it is essential that Member States' parliaments and the European Parliament cooperate more closely in their monitoring of the transposition and application of Community law. Closer links will promote and increase effective scrutiny of Community measures at national level, as Member States' parliaments have a distinct and crucial role to play in such monitoring. Likewise, such collaboration will strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the European Union, which will be brought closer to its citizens. 44. The committee considers that Parliament’s standing committees should take a much more active role in monitoring the implementation of legislation in the committee’s field of competence. The committee suggests that, wherever possible, and practicable, Parliament’s rapporteur for a particular file or his/her appointed successor should play a central and continuing role in the ongoing review of implementation and compliance with Community law by the Member States. In that regard, the regular sessions on implementation organised by the Committee for the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety could serve as an example. Without prejudice to the role of the Commission or of Parliament’s Committee on Petitions, the relevant rapporteur could form a focal point for complaints and feedback from citizens. Furthermore, the rapporteur, together with the shadow rapporteurs or Members of the European Parliament closely involved with the file during the legislative process, should be given sufficient administrative support to carry out their mission effectively. If appropriate, this process could ultimately lead to the creation of an implementation task force within each committee. There must be continuing and effective monitoring of the efficacy and implementation of legislation. D. RECOMMENDATIONS, PART VI - ROLE OF COMMITTEES OF INQUIRY 45. The committee recommends that its competent committee initiate work with a view to proposing to the Commission and to the Council a modification of Decision 95/167/EC, Euratom, ECSC with a view to broadening the powers and enhancing the authority of Parliament's committees of inquiry, in particular with a view to enlarging their investigative powers, to giving them the power to summon witnesses and papers in close cooperation with Member States' authorities, which should be bound to enforce such a request and to cooperate closely throughout the inquiry. 46. The committee requests that Decision 95/167/EC, Euratom, ECSC be updated and Parliament's powers of inquiry be improved and aligned with those of the majority of the Member States' parliaments. 47. The committee considers it essential, in