and the Economic and Social Committee; in view of the debate currently taking place in the Convention, also asks for the resolution to be forwarded to the President of the Convention. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The open method of coordination The open method of coordination prescribed by the Lisbon European Council closely followed the pattern set by Articles 126 and 128 of the Treaty establishing the European Community (TEC), which established the method of coordinating employment policies by stipulating that, each year, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions and the Employment Committee, should draw up guidelines which the Member States should take into account in their employment policies, on the basis of a joint annual report by the Council and the Commission. The Lisbon European Council defined the open method of coordination as a ‘means of spreading best practice and achieving greater convergence towards the main EU goals’. It involved ‘fixing guidelines for the Union combined with specific timetables for achieving the goals which they set in the short, medium and long terms; establishing, where appropriate, quantitative and qualitative indicators and benchmarks against the best in the world and tailored to the needs of different Member States and sectors as a means of comparing best practice; translating these European guidelines into national and regional policies by setting specific targets and adopting measures, taking into account national and regional differences; periodic monitoring, evaluation and peer review’. The ‘Luxembourg process’ procedures form the linchpin of this new strategy. The new elements introduced by Lisbon were simply giving a name to the method set out in Title V of the TEC, which deals with employment, and declaring the aim of gradually extending the application of the method (suitably adjusted to take account of sector-specific factors) to other areas such as the information society, research policy, enterprise policy, education, social inclusion, immigration, etc. At present the Council and Commission envisage extending the method to a range of areas including: the information society, research policy, enterprise policy, education and vocational training, action to combat social exclusion, social protection, immigration policy, a common asylum policy, the development of health services, a policy to meet the needs of the elderly, etc. Unresolved issues The introduction and application of the open method of coordination raises a number of unresolved issues. They can be summarised as follows: 1. the role of the open method of coordination; 2. the role of the various players involved; 3. the effectiveness of the application of the method. (1) Role of the open method of coordination According to the Commission White Paper on European governance, the open method of coordination (OMC) does not represent an alternative to the traditional legislative approach, but complements it. Its use is appropriate in the field of employment, as employment markets have strongly marked national characteristics and the instruments whereby national policies are implemented are so diverse, or so complex, that the effort required to achieve harmonisation would be out of all proportion to