paragraph 3, clearly refers to national or Community Courts. There is no ECJ case-law on the subject so, in principle, it seems that the sub judice limitation should be applied to national or Community Courts except, perhaps, in those cases where the purpose of the litigation is to stop the investigations of a committee of inquiry. The limitation should also be understood strictu sensu : it refers only to the specific issue sub judice and cannot be extended to collateral or related matters. 8). The meaning of maladministration is not defined by primary or secondary community law. However, the Ombudsman's Annual Report for 1996, responding to a request from the EP, explains the term maladministration as follows: Clearly there is maladministration if a Community institution or body fails to act in accordance with the Treaties and with the Community acts that are binding upon it, or if it fails to observe the rules and principles of law established by the Court of Justice and Court of First Instance. Many other instances may also amount to maladministration, including administrative irregularities, administrative omissions, abuse of power, unfairness, malfunction or incompetence, discrimination, avoidable delays, refusal of information, negligence, etc. Ombudsman's Annual Report for 1996. The EP has endorsed this approach in its resolution of 16 July 1998 OJ C 292, 21.9.1998, p. 168. . 9). The committee of Inquiry is also limited by its mandate, the initial purpose behind its constitution, and its raison d'être, and cannot investigate beyond this mandate as conferred upon it by Parliament. The decision to set up a committee of inquiry has to specify this purpose (Article 2, paragraph 1 in fine of the 1995 Decision). 10). Finally, the committee of Inquiry is limited by the deadline for submission of its report as specified in the mandate (Article 2, paragraph 1 in fine of the Decision). The deadline may be no longer than 12 months from the date when it was set up but may be extended twice by three months (Article 2, paragraph 4 of the Decision and Rule 176(4)). Powers and duties 11). Notwithstanding what is provided by the Rules or Decision 95/167, the modus operandi and powers of a committee of inquiry are the same as those provided for standing committees (Rule 176 paragraph 2). When a committee considers that one of its rights has been infringed, it shall ask the President to take the appropriate measures (Rule 176, paragraph 6). 12). The extended powers granted to a committee of inquiry are mostly found in Article 3 of Decision 95/167. Article 3, paragraph 1 provides that a committee shall carry out the inquiries necessary to verify alleged contraventions or maladministration. This provision has to be read in connection with the supervisory powers as mentioned in this note. European Community institutions and Member States are in particular obliged under Article 10 TCE to cooperate with the committee. 13). Article 3(4) establishes that authorities of Member States, institutions and bodies of the European Communities shall provide the committee with the necessary documents for the performance of its duties except