resolve the complaint itself within the limits of its rules of procedure ". " Once the competent scheme has received a cross-border complaint, it is its responsibility to try to resolve the dispute between the service provider and the consumer according to the rules laid down in its terms of reference and/or in its legal obligations, and taking into account the Commission Recommendation No 98/257, including the applicable law " (paragraph 6(4)). Finally paragraph 6(4) the MoU provides that these guidelines should be regarded as the basic cooperation procedure in the network and that Parties can always agree to an alternative method of cooperation in the interest of settling the dispute more efficiently. Paragraph 7 gives the consumer the possibility to choose the language in his dealings with the competent scheme. He may either use the usual working language of the competent scheme or otherwise deal with it in the language either of his contract with the financial services supplier or in which he normally dealt with the financial services supplier. Paragraph 8 lays down guidelines for the exchange of information both between participating schemes and the Commission and between the competent scheme and the nearest scheme. As regards the latter, paragraph 8(3) states the following: " Within the framework of its possibilities the nearest scheme provides the competent scheme with information on appropriate mandatory consumer protection rules in force in the consumer’s country of residence. The competent scheme should ask this information with a specific written request which includes concrete questions concerning the particular case. Such requests for information from other schemes will be replied to as swiftly as possible. " Mr DUCOULOMBIER from the European Commission's FIN-NET Secretariat in H9 explained the network's modus operandi in a nutshell: " The basic principle of the network is quite simple. A consumer from country A has a dispute with a financial services provider situated in country B. The principle of FIN-NET is that the consumer from country A only has to be aware of the existence of his ombudsman in his own country of residence and would then contact his own ombudsman in his own language. The ombudsman in the country of the consumer – this ombudsman is referred to as the ‘nearest scheme’ – would then transfer the consumer’s claim to his counterpart in country B, country B being the Member State in which the financial services provider is located. So it is quite a simple system, which is intended to assist consumers in finding the most appropriate scheme which will be responsible and able to handle the consumer’s cross-border dispute. It means that the consumer does not have to know languages and does not have to be informed about the existence of cross-border resolution schemes in other Member States. He only has to know his own ombudsman. " He also described the Commission's role with regard to FIN-NET: " We as the Commission, are the coordinators of this network, ... we organise the practical aspects ... we organise, convene and host the meetings and issue short minutes of these meetings.