substantially over the last few years and will continue to do so in the future. In this area, mechanisms should be developed in order to secure the active participation of national parliaments (and regional parliaments that have legislative powers) in the monitoring of community legislation. Legislative bodies in Member States are particularly concerned with the implementation issue and should therefore be willing to enhance cooperation with the European Parliament. To a certain degree, the structures for collaboration already exist and it should be possible to use them for this purpose. As has been stated previously, Member States have a degree of flexibility in transposing EU legislation into national law. Directives, by their very nature, leave Member States discretion in choosing the form and method of implementation. Thus directives are easily integrated into diverging national legal systems, administrative arrangements and traditions. However, at the same time, these different national mentalities and traditions may lead to differing application of the Directive and thus varying degrees of effectiveness. This is unacceptable in sensitive areas such as mutual recognition of financial services, where consumers expect uniform standards of supervision across the EU. Moreover, directives may loose their effectiveness as a result of their transposition into national law, as a result of the problems referred to above (e.g. linguistic difficulties, fragmented transposition), or because Member States may deliberately choose to transpose them in a way that undermines their effectiveness. It is therefore to be recommended that regulations and not directives be chosen as the standard legal form to legislate on particularly sensitive issues, in order to reflect the legislator's aims more closely. If, however, a directive is chosen rather than a regulation, it would be advisable for it to contain maximum harmonization requirements and not minimum standards. Directives should lay down clear and unambiguous requirements, which leave no room for interpretation and limit the discretion of national authorities. Derogation clauses and optional requirements should be avoided wherever possible because they diminish the EU-wide coherence and effectiveness of the law. This was illustrated by the option given to Member States in the 3LD to determine whether or not non-contractual bonuses were to be reserved (1.D, article 18 ) See Part II, Section II.1, for further details. . Conclusions PART V, ROLE OF THE COMMISSION PART V - ROLE OF THE COMMISSION The Commission’s role in the Equitable Life crisis 1. The committee is of the opinion that the Commission did not monitor the application of the 3LD effectively, although it may be said to have followed the prevailing practice at that time. The committee believes that the Commission should have taken a much more proactive stance and not simply have waited for complaints to arrive. 2. The committee believes that a dynamic approach to implementation on the part of the Commission and the Member States, considering both black letter law of the legislative text but also the aims of the legislation and the method of its practical application, would most likely have highlighted and brought to the fore the deficiencies in the application of the 3LD. 3. The