in Latvian, "Europos Parlamento nariai" in Lithuanian, "Európai Parlamenti Képviselők" in Hungarian, "Membru tal-Parlament Ewropew" in Maltese, "Leden van het Europees Parlement" in Dutch, "Posłowie do Parlamentu Europejskiego" in Polish, "Deputados ao Parlamento Europeu" in Portuguese, "Deputaţi în Parlamentul European" in Romanian, "Poslanci Európskeho parlamentu" in Slovak, "Poslanci Evropskega parlamenta" in Slovene, "Euroopan parlamentin jäsenet" in Finnish, "Ledamöter av Europaparlamentet" in Swedish. Rule 2 The independent mandate Members of the European Parliament shall exercise their mandate independently. They shall not be bound by any instructions and shall not receive a binding mandate. Rule 3 Verification of credentials 1. Following elections to the European Parliament, the President shall invite the competent authorities of the Member States to notify Parliament without delay of the names of the elected Members so that all Members may take their seats in Parliament with effect from the opening of the first sitting following the elections. At the same time, the President shall draw the attention of those authorities to the relevant provisions of the Act of 20 September 1976 and invite them to take the necessary measures to avoid any incompatibility with the office of Member of the European Parliament. 2. Every Member whose election has been notified to Parliament shall make a written declaration, before taking his seat in Parliament, that he does not hold any office incompatible with that of Member of the European Parliament within the meaning of Article 7(1) or (2) of the Act of 20 September 1976. Following general elections, this declaration shall be made, where possible, no later than six days prior to Parliament's constitutive sitting. Until such time as a Member's credentials have been verified or a ruling has been given on any dispute, and provided that he has previously signed the above-mentioned written declaration, the Member shall take his seat in Parliament and on its bodies and shall enjoy all the rights attaching thereto. Where it is established from facts verifiable from sources available to the public that a Member holds an office incompatible with that of Member of the European Parliament, within the meaning of Article 7(1) and (2) of the Act of 20 September 1976, Parliament, upon information provided by its President, shall establish that there is a vacancy. 3. On the basis of a report by the committee responsible, Parliament shall verify the credentials without delay and rule on the validity of the mandate of each of its newly elected Members and also on any dispute referred to it pursuant to the provisions of the Act of 20 September 1976, except those based on national electoral laws. 4. The committee's report shall be based on the official notification by each Member State of the full results of the election specifying the names of the candidates elected and those of any substitutes together with their ranking in accordance with the results of the vote. It shall not be possible to confirm the validity of the mandate of a Member unless the written declarations required under this Rule and Annex I to these Rules have been made. On the