Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (31 May 2006) The restrictive enrolment policy for the school year 2006-07 was decided by the Board of Governors of the European Schools (BoG) in October 2005 because of the overcrowding in the European Schools in Woluwe and Ixelles. This policy implies that no pupils of non-EU staff (Category III) can be accepted in Brussels — except siblings to currently enrolled pupils. The Commission is well aware of the inconvenience to parents and pupils who will not get the school of their choice. However, it does not agree that this policy was decided in a non-transparent manner: the decision was taken by the body which is competent for it under the European Schools’ Convention, where both parents and teachers representatives have a seat, together with one representative for each Member State and one representative of the European Commission on behalf of all EU institutions. Furthermore, the criteria agreed upon by the BoG are described in a document which is available to the public See document 712-D-2005-en-2 on www.eursc.org . The Commission believes that any effects on class sizes will be transitional until balance is reached between the various schools. In this context it should be reminded that, at its meeting of 25 April and 26 April which decided, amongst others, about the composition of the IV European School in Laeken, the BoG agreed upon the need to set up a central enrolment authority. The decision states that: ‘Based on directors’ proposals, the new central enrolment authority will decide on individual enrolments for the 4 Brussels schools, in line with the rules laid down by the BoG. It will perform constant monitoring of the evolution of pupils populations and the concrete expansion of all language sections in all four schools and all sections under the authority of the BoG. A more detail proposal on role, task and responsibilities will be presented at the BoG meeting in October. Such authority would remain fully accountable to the BoG and report to them.’ The BoG furthermore agreed that in principle the composition of such authority should include the participation of: Secretary General of the ES, European Commission on behalf of all other EU institutions, Directors of all Brussels Schools, Parents’ Representatives, Host country The Commission supports the decision of the restrictive enrolment policy due to the problematic situation of overcrowding at the moment. Therefore, it will not ask the European Schools to re-open registration as it is convinced that the situation of overcrowding endangers the quality of education. The Commission does not currently dispose of the details requested by the Honourable Member of the applications for new enrolments filed by 31 March 2006. It has therefore asked the European Schools' Directors to provide an overview in this regard. Once available, this information will be made public.