of taking the debate on progress made in the IGC directly after the debate on progress of candidate countries towards accession. He was particularly concerned about the recent ECOFIN proposals to limit the powers of the European Parliament in the budgetary area. The compromise drawn up on the finances of the Union in the Convention, he recalled, was based on a delicate balancing act - governments would have the last say on the EU's resources and the Parliament on expenditure. Giorgio NAPOLITANO (I) for the PES group warned against any removal of the legislative Council from the draft Constitution. He was another speaker to call for a more flexible review procedure for part III of the Treaty. Andrew DUFF (Eastern) for the ELDR stated that he was concerned about the direction of the IGC. He criticised Gordon Brown's statement that the draft Constitution would bring about a federal state with a centralised fiscal system and stated that he had shown " regrettable prejudice ". Mr Duff was another speaker to reject the ECOFIN proposals to remove QMV, remove the last word for the European Parliament for expenditure and to remove Parliament's right of assent. If in anyway the proposals were to be adopted he warned " the autocrats would have won over the democrats ." Sylvia-Yvonne KAUFMANN (D) of the GUE/NGL group was particularly concerned about achieving a Constitutional Treaty where social rights were enshrined and protected. Furthermore, Mrs Kauffmann stressed the importance of matching the EU's goals with its policies. Johannes VOGGENHUBER (A) for the Greens/EFA compared the arguing in the IGC to squabbling over a €10 note. Again, he warned against opening up new issues and to stick to the results of the Convention as much as possible. José RIBEIRO E CASTRO (P) for the UEN group was not surprised about the ongoing arguments in the IGC and criticised " Jacques Chirac for threatening to withdraw EU funds if France did not get its way in the IGC ." He also stressed the importance of having one Commissioner per Member State. People's expectations had been raised too highly at the Nice Summit and the EU had to be realistic in what it aimed to achieve. Jens-Peter BONDE (DK) for the EDD group stated that he had published on his website an easy to read and understandable version of the draft Constitution including a minority opinion on the way the Union should proceed. Gianfranco DELL'ALBA (I) for the non-aligned Members stated that the EU should have deepened integration further before enlargement. He also criticised the Italian Presidency for not achieving a resolution on the moratorium on the death penalty. British /Irish MEPs Richard CORBETT (PES, Yorkshire and the Humber) stated that there was a real danger in unravelling the draft Constitutional Treaty. In the last debate, he warned against what he called the " selfish " demands of the Polish and Spanish governments to return to the Nice formula. Mr Corbett was another speaker strongly against the ECOFIN proposals and stated that ECOFIN had brought them up at a very late