an item on the agenda, a political group or at least forty Members may move that the debate be adjourned to a specific date and time. Such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately. The intention to move adjournment shall be notified at least twenty-four hours in advance to the President, who shall inform Parliament immediately. 2. If the motion is carried, Parliament shall proceed to the next item on the agenda. The adjourned debate shall be resumed at the specified date and time. 3. If the motion is rejected, it may not be tabled again during that part-session. 4. Before or during a vote, a political group or at least forty Members may move that the vote be adjourned. Such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately. Any decision by Parliament to adjourn a debate to a subsequent part-session shall specify the part-session on the agenda of which the debate is to be included, on the understanding that the agenda for that part-session shall be drawn up pursuant to Rules 130 and 132. Rule 171 Suspension or closure of the sitting The sitting may be suspended or closed during a debate or a vote if Parliament so decides on a proposal from the President or at the request of a political group or at least forty Members. Such a proposal or request shall be put to the vote immediately. CHAPTER 7 PUBLIC RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS Rule 172 Minutes 1. The minutes of each sitting, containing the decisions of Parliament and the names of speakers, shall be distributed at least half an hour before the beginning of the afternoon period of the next sitting. In the context of legislative proceedings, any amendments adopted by Parliament are also deemed to be decisions within the meaning of this paragraph, even if the relevant Commission proposal or the Council's common position is ultimately rejected, pursuant to Rule 52(1) or Rule 61(3) respectively. The texts adopted by Parliament shall be distributed separately. Where legislative texts adopted by Parliament contain amendments, they shall be published in a consolidated version. 2. At the beginning of the afternoon period of each sitting the President shall place before Parliament, for its approval, the minutes of the previous sitting. 3. If any objections are raised to the minutes Parliament shall, if necessary, decide whether the changes requested should be considered. No Member may speak on the minutes for more than one minute. 4. The minutes shall be signed by the President and the Secretary-General and preserved in the records of Parliament. They shall be published within one month in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rule 173 Verbatim reports 1. A verbatim report of the proceedings of each sitting shall be drawn up in the official languages. 2. Speakers shall be required to return typescripts of their speeches to the Secretariat not later than the day following that on which they received them. 3. The verbatim report shall be published as an annex to the Official Journal of the European Union. TITLE VII COMMITTEES AND DELEGATIONS