mandates) for practically every country in the world (with the obvious exception of rich countries like the US, Canada, Norway etc). It would send a strange political signal to completely exclude the remaining TACIS countries in the Southern Caucasus and Central Asia mentioned above. Why exclude these when practically every other country in the world is covered? It should be recalled that these are some of the poorest countries in the world and would have limited access to international capital markets without guarantees. 16 March 2004 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HUMAN RIGHTS, COMMON SECURITY AND DEFENCE POLICY for the Committee on Budgets on the proposal for a Council Decision amending Decision 2000/24/EC to take into account the enlargement of the European Union and the EU's Wider Europe - New Neighbourhood policy ( COM(2003) 603 – C5‑0501/2003 – 2003/0232(CNS)) Draftswoman: Pasqualina Napoletano PROCEDURE The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy appointed Pasqualina Napoletano draftswoman at its meeting of 4 November 2003. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 24 February and 16 March 2004. At the last meeting it adopted the following amendments unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne (acting chairwoman), Geoffrey Van Orden (vice-chairman), Christos Zacharakis (vice-chairman), Pasqualina Napoletano (draftswoman), Per-Arne Arvidsson, Alexandros Baltas, Bastiaan Belder, Michael Cashman (for Klaus Hänsch), Alejandro Cercas (for Rosa M. Díez González pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Véronique De Keyser, Glyn Ford, Michael Gahler, Robert Goebbels (for Jacques F. Poos pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Alfred Gomolka, Richard Howitt, Marie Anne Isler Béguin (for Elisabeth Schroedter), Efstratios Korakas, Cecilia Malmström, Jean-Charles Marchiani, Miguel Angel Martínez Martínez (Emilio Menéndez del Valle), Edward H.C. McMillan-Scott (for John Walls Cushnahan), Philippe Morillon, Arie M. Oostlander, Elena Ornella Paciotti (for Demetrio Volcic pursuant to Rule 153(2)), José Ribeiro e Castro (for Luís Queiró pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Jannis Sakellariou, José Ignacio Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, Jacques Santer, Jürgen Schröder, Ilkka Suominen, Hannes Swoboda, Charles Tannock, Maj Britt Theorin (for Catherine Lalumière), Joan Vallvé, Johan Van Hecke (for Ole Andreasen), Karl von Wogau, Jan Marinus Wiersma, Matti Wuori. SHORT JUSTIFICATION The accession of ten candidate countries to the EU on 1 May 2004 will make it possible to increase lending from the European Investment Bank (EIB) to other non-Member states, without raising the ceiling for the EIB's external lending mandate. This is extremely welcome, at a time when the EU is intensifying its co-operation with the potential candidate countries of the Western Balkans and prepares for a progressive deepening of its relations to other neighbours, in the South and the East. The EIB's external lending mandate is divided up between different regions. Since the Western Balkans and acceding central and eastern European countries are in the same EIB region, the Western Balkans will benefit from reduced competition for the available lending space. On the other hand, Turkey is foreseen to be transferred from the Mediterranean to the central and eastern European region (which will be renamed). The net effect for the Western Balkans should still be positive. As Turkey