WRITTEN QUESTION E-4645/07 by Mario Mauro (PPE‑DE) to the Council (27 September 2007) Subject: Denial of the right to study at the Italian School in Madrid Raffaele Di Russo, Sara Emma Mangiameli, Nicolas Dovis and Sabrina Béjar are four children (Italian citizens resident in Madrid) who have been denied access to the primary school after having attended the abovementioned institution's nursery school for three years. Early enrolment at the Italian nursery school was allowed by the Italian Foreign Ministry in response to a request from the parents. That request was based upon the legal framework constituted by Law No 53 of 28 March 2003 (the ‘Moratti Law’), Legislative Decree No 59 of 19 February 2004 and Ministry of Public Education Circular No 74 (reference number 1168) of 21 December 2006. Pursuant to that legal framework, children who reach the age of six before 30 April 2008 may be enrolled early in compulsory schooling and the schools run by the Italian State are required to accept them. If the four children had been on the territory of the Italian Republic they would have started at primary school without any problem. In response to numerous applications submitted in recent years by the children's parents and the petition submitted to the Lazio Regional Court of Appeal (a copy of which is attached), the Administrative Court issued a rejection (Lazio Regional Court of Appeal, Rome, No 6777/2007) without making it available to the plaintiffs other than for consultation purposes and merely referred to the Spanish law under which early enrolment is not permitted. However, the Italian School in Madrid is governed by Italian law. It is situated on Italian soil (at the Italian Consulate-General) and its main purpose should be to enable the children of Italian citizens resident abroad to receive the same education as that provided in Italy itself. The refusal to enrol the four children and their replacement with four other children from other establishments was deemed in order by the Administrative Court. The parents of the children in question have already appealed to Italy's Council of State (No 7075/2007). What stance does the Council intend to adopt in response to discriminatory treatment of this nature (which is possible only because of the school's geographical remoteness), not least in the light of Article 153 of the EC Treaty on consumer protection, the first part of which is concerned with consumers' right to education? Will the Council comment on whether the action taken in respect of the four Italian children in question is compatible with the Treaty?