Answer given by Ms Geoghegan-Quinn on behalf of the Commission (30 September 2010) Five Joint Technology Initiatives (JTIs) have been set up as Joint Undertakings (JUs) on the basis of Article 187 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (ex Article 171 TEC). These are: — the Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI), which supports the development of new knowledge, tools and methods for new medicines, — Clean Sky, which seeks to develop technologies aiming at reducing emissions and noise and to increase the competitiveness of the European aeronautics industry, — Artemis, which addresses embedded computing systems, — ENIAC, which targets the next generations of nanoelectronics components and, — the Fuel Cells & Hydrogen (FCH) initiative, whose goal it is to speed up the development and deployment of hydrogen supply and fuel cell technologies Further information is available at: http://cordis.europa.eu/fp7/jtis/home_en.html . The Commission supports the JTI JUs financially from the FP7 budget and participates in their Governing Boards, in particular: — The EU financial support from FP7 to the JUs is up to EUR 1 billion for IMI, up to EUR 800 million for Clean Sky, up to EUR 470 million for FCH, up to EUR 420 million for ARTEMIS and up to EUR 450 million for ENIAC. — Through its participation in the JTI JUs' Governing Boards, the Commission also contributes to the JUs' decision making in important issues for which the Commission has a long-standing experience, e.g. the rules relating to the calls for proposals that the JUs launch. — In Artemis and ENIAC, the Commission also participates in the Public Authorities Board (with the JU Member States), where decisions are made about the work programmes and the selection of projects. The Commission level of support differs depending on the stage of development of each JTI JU: — At the initial stage, before a JTI JU has acquired the capacity to implement its budget (this capacity is commonly referred to as ‘autonomy’), the Commission is responsible for the establishment and the initial operation of the JU and carries out, in accordance with EC law, all necessary actions in collaboration with the other Founding Members and the involvement of each JU's Governing Board. — At the post-‘autonomy’ stage (which has now been reached for four JTIs), the Commission provides support on the basis of the legal framework applicable, including contractual arrangements such as the General Financing Agreement and the Service Level Agreements it has signed with the JTI JUs. In this context, it provides e.g. assistance in the area of the IT systems the JUs are using. Therefore, the Commission has been providing crucial support for the JTIs set-up phase and, together with its partners in the Boards, continues to accompany these novel structures in their efforts to reach their full potential and efficiently integrate industrial research in their areas.