{ "context": [ [ "Mitchell 1", [ "Mitchell 1 is a software service provider that has provided repair information to the automotive industry for over 90 years.", " Founded as a private company, Reed Electrical Manuals, the company provided the first specifications and diagrams of vehicle electrical systems to the new motoring public, and the technicians that would learn to service these new automobiles.", " Though Mitchell 1 started out as a simple provider of technical information in printed manuals to the professional technician, it has grown over the years to become a fully integrated software service provider.", " Mitchell 1 is headquartered in Poway, California and its ownership is currently held by% held by Snap-on Tools, Inc. (85%) and NAPA (15%)." ] ], [ "Leidos", [ "Leidos, a spin-off of Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), is an American defense company headquartered in Reston, Virginia, that provides scientific, engineering, systems integration, and technical services.", " Leidos works extensively with the United States Department of Defense (4th largest DoD contractor FY2012), the United States Department of Homeland Security, and the United States Intelligence Community, including the NSA, as well as other U.S. government civil agencies and selected commercial markets." ] ], [ "Lynx Software Technologies", [ "Lynx Software Technologies, Inc. (formerly LynuxWorks) is a San Jose, California software company founded in 1988.", " Lynx Software Technologies specializes in secure virtualization and open and reliable real-time operating system (RTOS).", " Originally known as Lynx Real-Time Systems, the company changed its name to LynuxWorks in 2000 after acquiring, and merging with, ISDCorp (Integrated Software & Devices Corporation) a nine-year-old embedded systems company with a strong Linux background.", " In May 2014, the company changed its name to Lynx Software Technologies as a representation of the company’s forward direction as the LynxOS RTOS family of products and the LynxSecure hypervisor continued to gain increased traction both with current customers and markets, and with the new Internet connected embedded world." ] ], [ "MANDRIL", [ "MANDRIL is integrated software produced by Leidos UK Ltd (formerly Lockheed Martin UK IS&S Ltd) for the analysis of Tactical Data Links.", " It is an acronym of Message ANalysis and Data Reduction for the Integration of Links.", " MANDRIL can decode and analyse recordings of data link traffic from Link 16 (TADIL J), Link 11 (TADIL-A & B), Link 22, VMF and so on." ] ], [ "Medical Protective", [ "Medical Protective is an American liability insurance company for physicians and dentists. Medical Protective traces its roots back to a predecessor company, the Physicians’ Guarantee Company.", " Alpheus P. Buchman, MD and Miles F. Porter, MD, both of Fort Wayne, Indiana, formed the Physicians' Guarantee Company in 1899 to provide pre-paid legal defense services for medical malpractice lawsuits.", " The company is considered one of the first companies to offer pre-paid legal defense services in the United States.", " In 1902, Physicians’ Guarantee Company changed its name to the Physicians’ Defense Company.", " In 1907, Byron H. Somers and Charles M. Niezer left the Physicians Defense Company and founded The Medical