the actuarial functioning of life offices was in the hands of GAD until the reorganisation under FSA was in place." (par.158) Although Lord Penrose confirms that " GAD actuaries were held in high regard by the regulators" he says that " they were often inhibited by their understanding of what was acceptable within broad and ill-defined standards of practice", suggesting that " Government required a 'light touch' approach to regulation, and allocated resources accordingly ." He further suggests that " increased resources ... might have improved the chances of identifying problems ", and hints at the UK political climate prevailing for most of the 1990s, when the Government's objective " was to deregulate, to reduce regulatory burdens on business, to avoid interference in private companies, and to let market forces prevail ." (par.159, 160 and 161) Finally, he states that " reforms were introduced, within the legislative framework that existed, but that Ministers had repeatedly ruled out primary legislation in this area" as there had been a general perception that " life insurance supervision was a success, as there had been only one insignificant life company failure in twenty years ." Partly for this reason "v irtually no primary legislation in the regulatory area for which DTI was responsible was taken forward by Ministers", adding that he saw no " wish list of legislative amendments that identified fundamental structural reform as a possible subject for legislation." (par.162) In his conclusion, Lord Penrose argues that "principally, the Society was author of its own misfortunes. Regulatory system failures were secondary factors" (Ch.20, par.84) indicating however the following points as 'key findings' Chapter 19, page 726. of his inquiry in relation to the role of the UK insurance regulators: a) UK regulation was based on an over-reliance on the Appointed Actuary, who in the case of the Society was also the chief executive over the critical period from 1991 to 1997, despite recognition of the potential for conflict of interest inherent in this position ; (par. 240.7) b) The regulatory returns and measures of solvency applied by the regulators did not keep pace with developments in the industry ... Thus regulatory solvency became an increasingly irrelevant measure of the realistic financial position of the Society; (par. 240.8) c) The significance of policyholders' reasonable expectations (PRE) under the legislation was understood by the regulators ... There was, however, no consistent or persistent attempt to establish how PRE should affect the acknowledged liabilities of the Society ; (par. 240.9) d) The regulators failed to give sufficient consideration to the fact that a number of the various measures used to bolster the Society's solvency position were predicated on the emergence of future surplus ; (par. 240.10) e) There was a general failure on the part of the regulators and GAD to follow up issues that arose in the course of their regulation of the Society, and to mount an effective challenge of the management . (par. 240.11). Lord Penrose concluded by stating that "the picture that emerges is of a Society that had deep-seated financial and management problems