President's decision. 5. Exceptionally, he may state that he will announce his ruling later, but not more than twenty-four hours after the point of order was raised. Postponement of the ruling shall not entail the adjournment of the debate. The President may refer the matter to the committee responsible. A request to raise a point of order shall relate to the agenda item under discussion. The President may take a point of order concerning a different matter at an appropriate time, e.g., after the discussion of the agenda item in question is closed or before the sitting is suspended. Rule 167 Moving the inadmissibility of a matter 1. At the beginning of the debate on a specific item on the agenda, its inadmissibility may be moved. Such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately. The intention to move inadmissibility shall be notified at least twenty-four hours in advance to the President who shall inform Parliament immediately. 2. If the motion is carried, Parliament shall immediately proceed to the next item on the agenda. Rule 168 Referral back to committee 1. Referral back to committee may be requested by a political group or at least forty Members when the agenda is fixed or before the start of the debate. The intention to move referral back to committee shall be notified at least twenty-four hours in advance to the President, who shall inform Parliament immediately. 2. Referral back to committee may also be requested by a political group or at least forty Members before or during a vote. Such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately. 3. A request may be made only once at each of these different procedural stages. 4. Referral back to committee shall entail suspension of the discussion of the item. 5. Parliament may set a time limit within which the committee shall report its conclusions. Rule 169 Closure of a debate 1. A debate may be closed before the list of speakers has been exhausted on a proposal from the President or at the request of a political group or at least forty Members. Such a proposal or request shall be put to the vote immediately. 2. If the proposal or request is carried, only one Member may speak from each political group which has not yet provided a speaker in that debate. 3. After the speeches referred to in paragraph 2, the debate shall be closed and Parliament shall vote on the matter under debate, except where the time for the vote has been set in advance. 4. If the proposal or request is rejected, it may not be tabled again during that debate, except by the President. Rule 170 Adjournment of a debate and vote 1. At the start of a debate on an item on the agenda, a political group or at least forty Members may move that the debate be adjourned to a specific date and time. Such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately. The intention to move adjournment shall be notified at least twenty-four hours in advance