shall call upon Members to speak, ensuring as far as possible that speakers of different political views and using different languages are heard in turn. 3. On request, however, priority may be given to the rapporteur of the committee responsible and to the chairmen of political groups who wish to speak on behalf of their groups, or to speakers deputising for them. 4. No Member may speak more than twice on the same subject, except by leave of the President. The chairman and the rapporteur of the committees concerned shall, however, be allowed to speak at their request for a period to be decided by the President. Rule 144 One-minute speeches For a period of not more than thirty minutes during the first sitting of each part-session the President shall call Members who wish to draw Parliament's attention to a matter of political importance. Speaking time for each Member shall not exceed one minute. The President may allow a further such period later during the same part-session. Rule 145 Personal statements 1. A Member who asks to make a personal statement shall be heard at the end of the discussion of the item of the agenda being dealt with or when the minutes of the sitting to which the request for leave to speak refers are considered for approval. The Member concerned may not speak on substantive matters but shall confine his observations to rebutting any remarks that have been made about his person in the course of the debate or opinions that have been attributed to him, or to correcting observations that he himself has made. 2. Unless Parliament decides otherwise, no personal statement shall last for more than three minutes. CHAPTER 4 MEASURES TO BE TAKEN IN THE EVENT OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE STANDARDS OF CONDUCT OF MEMBERS Rule 146 Immediate measures 1. The President shall call to order any Member who disrupts the smooth conduct of the proceedings or whose conduct fails to comply with the relevant provisions of Rule 9. 2. Should the offence be repeated, the President shall again call the Member to order, and the fact shall be recorded in the minutes. 3. Should the disturbance continue, or if a further offence is committed, the President may deny the offender the right to speak and exclude him from the Chamber for the remainder of the sitting. He may also resort to the latter measure immediately and without a second call to order in cases of exceptional seriousness. The Secretary-General shall, without delay, see to it that such disciplinary measures are carried out, with the assistance of the ushers and, if necessary, of Parliament's Security Service. 4. Should disturbances threaten to obstruct the business of the House, the President shall close or suspend the sitting for a specific period to restore order. If he cannot make himself heard, he shall leave the Chair; this shall have the effect of suspending the sitting. The President shall reconvene the sitting. 5. The powers provided for in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be vested, mutatis mutandis, in the presiding officers