the ATM Master Plan. The Council shall take into account the assessment referred to in Article 6 and the provisions of Article 6a. Justification This amendment is a necessary legal provision, judging from the experience of the Galileo Joint Undertaking. Amendment 21 Article 1, paragraph 2, introductory part 2. The aim of the Joint Undertaking shall be to ensure the modernisation of the European air traffic management system by federating research and development efforts in the Community . It shall be responsible in particular for carrying out the following tasks: 2. The aim of the Joint Undertaking shall be to ensure the modernisation of the European air traffic management system by coordinating and concentrating all relevant research and development . It shall be responsible in particular for carrying out the following tasks: Justification This follows from the previous amendments on the definition of the development phase. Amendment 22 Article 1, paragraph 2, indent 1 - organising and coordinating the implementation of the SESAR project, in accordance with the plan to modernise air traffic management in Europe, hereinafter referred to as “the plan”, drawn up by Eurocontrol, by combining public and private sector funding; - organising and coordinating the activities of the development phase of the SESAR project, in accordance with the ATM Master Plan resulting from the definition phase of the project managed by Eurocontrol, by combining and managing under a single structure public and private sector funding; Justification This follows from the previous amendments concerning the definition of the development phase. Amendment 23 Article 1, paragraph 2, indent 2 a (new) - ensuring the necessary funding for the activities of the development phase in accordance with the ATM Master Plan; Justification The question of funding merits special mention. Amendment 24 Article 1, paragraph 2, indent 2 b (new) - ensuring the involvement of the stakeholders in air traffic management in Europe , in both decision-making and funding; Justification This addition is needed because of the important role played, due to experience and accumulated knowledge, by air traffic management in Europe. Amendment 25 Article 1, paragraph 3 3. The seat of the Joint Undertaking shall be located in Brussels . 3. The seat of the Joint Undertaking shall be established in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No58/2003 of 19 December 2002 laying down the statute for executive agencies to be entrusted with certain tasks in the management of Community programmes 1 . _________________ 1 OJ L 11, 16.1.2003, p. 1. Justification The seat of the SESAR Joint Undertaking should not be decided by this Regulation. This decision should be taken by the European Council, in accordance with the principles underlying the decision on the seat of Agencies (see Council Reg. N°58/2003 of 19.12.2002) and other organs and services of the EC. Amendment 26 Article 2, paragraph 2 2. The Joint Undertaking shall be recognised as an international organisation within the meaning of the second indent of Article 15(10) of Directive 77/388/EEC and the second indent of Article 23(1) of Directive 92/12/EEC. deleted Justification Directive 77/388/EEC and Directive 92/12/EEC do not allow joint