{ "context": [ [ "WestAir Commuter Airlines", [ "WestAir Commuter Airlines, also known as WestAir Airlines(IATA:OE,VB/ICAO WCA,SDU), was a United States airline formed when Stol Air Commuter changed its name in 1978.", " One of the founders was Maurice J. Gallagher, Jr., who later acquired Allegiant Air.", " WestAir subsequently became a United Express air carrier via a code sharing agreement with United Airlines.", " It was headquartered in Fresno, California.", " WestAir was sold to Mesa Air Group in 1992." ] ], [ "Maurice J. Gallagher, Jr.", [ "Maurice J. Gallagher Jr., also known as Maury Gallagher, is a commercial airline entrepreneur who has been associated with the startup and operation of three airlines, WestAir, ValuJet and Allegiant Air (subsidiary of Allegiant Travel Company), as well as several other non-aviation businesses in the telecommunications and adaptive learning fields." ] ], [ "Hush (2016 film)", [ "Hush is a 2016 American horror thriller film directed and edited by Mike Flanagan, starring Kate Siegel, and written by both.", " The film co-stars John Gallagher Jr., Michael Trucco, Samantha Sloyan, and Emilia \"Emma\" Graves.", " The film was produced by Trevor Macy, through Intrepid Pictures, and Jason Blum through his Blumhouse Productions banner." ] ], [ "Maurice Prather", [ "Maurice William Prather (September 6, 1926 - January 9, 2001) was an American motion picture and still photographer and film director.", " He was born in Miami, Florida, the son of Maurice J. Prather, a mechanic, cabinet maker, and woodworker, and Zora M. Prather, both of them born in Missouri.", " Young Maurice Jr. also had a younger sister, Laura Jo, some two years his junior." ] ], [ "Allegiant Air", [ "Allegiant Air is an American low-cost airline that operates scheduled and charter flights.", " It is wholly owned by Allegiant Travel Company (NASDAQ: ALGT ), a publicly traded company with 3,700 employees and over $2.6 billion USD market capitalization.", " The corporate headquarters are in Summerlin, Nevada, a suburb of Las Vegas." ] ], [ "Highbury Studios", [ "The Highbury Studios were a British film studio located in Highbury, North London which operated from 1937 until 1956.", " The studios were constructed by the producer Maurice J. Wilson.", " During its early years the studio was hired out to independent production companies.", " Following the Second World War, Highbury was acquired by the Rank Organisation which used it to make low-budget second features featuring the company's rising actors.", " The studio was run by the producer John Croydon, who had previously worked at Ealing.", " In 1949 the studio operation was shut down as part of a series of cuts made throughout the Rank Organisation, which had suffered heavy financial losses.", " Occasional films were still made there by other companies, and it became increasingly used as a television studio." ] ], [ "Underwater (film)", [ "Underwater is an upcoming American adventure-thriller film directed by William Eubank and written by Brian Duffield.", " The film is produced by Chernin Entertainment for 20th Century Fox and stars Kristen Stewart, T.J. Miller, Jessica Henwick, Mamoudou