Rühle, Sahra Wagenknecht, Cristian Stănescu. Substitute(s) present for the final vote Ján Hudacký, Werner Langen, Maria Petre, Andreas Schwab, Katerina Batzeli, Harald Ettl, Gianni Pittella. Substitute(s) under Rule 178(2) present for the final vote Comments (available in one language only) 8.5.2007 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEN'S RIGHTS AND GENDER EQUALITY for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on modernising labour law to meet the challenges of the 21st century ( 2007/2023(INI) ) Draftswoman: Kartika Tamara Liotard SUGGESTIONS The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality calls on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: A. whereas research has shown that in the new economy social and in particular gender inequalities exist and will tend to intensify, mainly in those sectors where trade unions are weak and no collective agreements exist, B. whereas basic employment or social protection rights might be significantly reduced for women, giving rise to a situation of uncertainty about future employment prospects and affecting crucial choices in their private lives such as planning a family, C. whereas women are in a disadvantaged position in the labour market and are disproportionately represented in part-time work and in new, often precarious, forms of working arrangements, such as non-permanent contracts and rental work contracts, facing obstacles in seeking access to full social rights and benefits, as well as equal salaries and career opportunities, D. having regard to the forms of discrimination suffered by women as regards access to the employment market and resulting in a higher risk of poverty, in particular persistent income differentials even in the case of women whose education and training levels equal or exceed those achieved by men, E. whereas the disadvantaged situation of women on the employment market means that they are paid on average 15% less than men, even though equal pay for men and women has been enshrined in EU law ever since that law came into being, F. whereas inequalities generate a direct and indirect economic cost and whereas - on the contrary - equal treatment generates competitive advantages, hence the establishment of equal treatment constitutes a major strategic contribution to social and economic development; whereas, furthermore, the European Union cannot afford to dispense with the energy and the productive capacity of women, who make up half of the population, G. whereas women are now confronted with a triple bind, i.e. to increase their labour market participation, to give birth to more children and to face a growing demand for caring responsibilities in their families, while it is nearly always the woman who is required to make the compromises necessary to fit work around the family’s needs and who experiences high levels of stress and anxiety because of the combination of working and caring roles, H. whereas women often leave the labour market for extended periods of time because of child or family care responsibilities and their chances of reintegrating into the labour market are reduced, I. whereas it is a fact that hundreds of thousands of