WRITTEN QUESTION E-6575/08 by Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert (ALDE) to the Commission (11 December 2008) Subject: Sectoral driving ban in Austria Further to my Written Question E‑2474/08 and the relevant answer, the Commission states that it did not agree to the introduction of the sectoral driving ban in Austria. Moreover the Commission has let me know that in January 2008 it instituted infringement proceedings against Austria. Those proceedings are having little effect, however. The driving ban remains in force. The substantial extension of the driving ban (to take effect from 1 January 2009) also seems likely to go ahead. The Commission has asked Austria to put forward other solutions; but it must be clear that such solutions provide no consolation and certainly cannot be regarded as a concession to transit traffic. To take one example: it is proposed to remove the route from Innsbruck to Zirl from the driving ban. But transit traffic is not affected by this at all. Transit traffic simply does not use this route. The route is used mainly by Austrian hauliers from the province of Vorarlberg and so the concession is purely and simply for local transport. Austria is selling the sectoral driving ban as a ‘green’ initiative. This is a long way from the principle of ‘controlling through taxation’ (internalising external costs) on which so much time and energy is being spent. 1. Can the Commission once more explain how the above sectoral driving ban is compatible with one of the EU’s most important basic principles, namely the free movement of goods, and also with the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality? If not, why not? 2. Has the Commission not repeatedly assured me that it would always be alert if the question of the free movement of goods and the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality were put on the agenda, and that it would not hesitate to take action if that should be necessary? 3. Does the Commission agree that action is needed (in view of the urgency of the matter and the economic significance of extending the sectoral driving ban with effect from 1 January 2009) in the near future? If not, why not? 4. Does the Commission agree that legal proceedings before the Court, combined with summary proceedings, is the right (and at this time, the only) step forward? If not, why not? 5. Does the Commission not fear a knock-on effect on other countries and/or other types of goods if it does not take action against this development and thus set a precedent? If not, why not?