of ... [Interoperability Directive]* + OJ: please insert number and date of the Directive. which must be met by the rail system, the subsystems, and the interoperability constituents, including interfaces; _____________ * OJ L ... c) the following point (s) shall be added: s) "keeper" means the person or entity that , being the owner of a vehicle or having the right to use it, exploits the vehicle ▌as a means of transport and is registered as such in the National Vehicle Register referred to in Article [...] of Directive .../.../EC [Interoperability Directive] ++ OJ: please insert number of the Directive . +. 3) in Article 4(4) the term "wagon operator" shall be replaced by " vehicle keeper" ; ( 4 ) Article 5(2) shall be replaced by the following: 2. Before 30 April 2009, Annex I shall be revised, particularly with a view to incorporating therein the CSI common definitions and the common methods for calculating the cost of accidents. The measures designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive, inter alia by supplementing it with new elements, relating to the implementation of this paragraph shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 27(2a). On imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission may have recourse to the urgency procedure referred to in Article 27(2b). (5) Article 6 shall be amended as follows: a) paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: 1. An initial series of CSMs covering, as a minimum, the methods described in paragraph 3(a) shall be adopted by the Commission before 30 April 2008. They shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. A second series of CSMs covering the remaining methods described in paragraph 3 shall be adopted by the Commission before 30 April 2010. They shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The measures designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive, inter alia by supplementing it with new elements , relating to the implementation of this paragraph shall be adopted in accordance with the ║ regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 27(2a). On imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission may have recourse to the urgency procedure referred to in Article 27(2b)." ; b) paragraph (4) shall be replaced by the following: 4. "4. The CSMs shall be revised at regular intervals, taking into account the experience gained from their application and the global development of railway safety and the obligations on Member States as laid down in Article 4(1). The measures designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive , inter alia by supplementing it with new elements , relating to the implementation of this paragraph shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory ║ procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 27(2a). On imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission may have recourse to the urgency procedure referred to in Article 27(2b). (6) Article 7 shall be amended as follows: a) in paragraph 3, the first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: The first set of draft