Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (12 November 2007) Article 1(b) of the Water Framework Directive (2000/60/EC Directive 2000/60/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy, OJ L 327, 22.12.2000. ) lays down the objective of promoting sustainable water use based on a long-term protection of available water resources. According to Recital 41 of this directive, overall principles should be laid down for control on abstraction and impoundment of water in order to ensure the environmental sustainability of the affected water systems. Member States are responsible for the implementation of the Water Framework Directive and decide their own measures in the context of the river basin management plans that need to be developed by the end of 2009. On 18 July 2007 the Commission adopted a communication on water scarcity and droughts COM(2007)414 final. See also: http://ec.europa.eu/environment/water/quantity/scarcity_en.htm in order to open a broad debate on these issues in a context of increasing impacts all over Europe. One of the orientations of the communication relates to water efficiency. There is a huge potential for both water saving and better water efficiency across Europe. A recent study commissioned by the European Commission indicates that Europe continues to waste at least 40 % of its water due to inefficient management. Saving this 40 % would be enough to address the projected increase of water demand by the European Union in the coming 30 years. Lessons need to be learnt from this current situation. A more consistent and logical approach needs to be adopted. Water savings, water efficiency and any cost-effective action on water demand management must be given full consideration before other alternatives. This is the least that can be done to ensure a sustainable management of all water resources. Water uses should also be prioritised: it is clear that public water supply should always be the overriding priority to ensure access to adequate water provision. The communication from the Commission makes an overview of a set of policy options aimed at improving water efficiency and water savings throughout the European Union: (1) putting the right price tag on water; (2) allocating water and water-related funding more efficiently; (3) improving drought risk management; (4) considering additional water supply infrastructures; (5) fostering water efficient technologies and practises; (6) fostering the emergence of a water-saving culture in Europe; (7) improve knowledge and data collection. The Commission will review progress towards the set orientations and will present a follow up report in 2008.