Answer given by Mr Borg on behalf of the Commission (13 December 2004) The International Plan of Action for Seabirds adopted by the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) aims to reduce the accidental catch of seabirds in long line fisheries where this occurs. In this context, by-catches of albatrosses in particular in the Southern Oceans are of significant concern. Although the role of Community vessels in this regard seems to be relatively limited, the Community has continued to promote the necessary work and measures within Regional Fisheries Organisations. To tackle such problems, the Community has already incorporated into Community law a number of technical measures developed under the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living resources (CCALMR) to which the Community is Party Council Regulation (EC) No 600/2004 of 22 March 2004 laying down certain technical measures applicable to fishing activities in the area covered by the Convention on the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources, OJ L 97, 1.4.2004 . (Articles 8 and 9 thereof refer specifically to incidental mortality of seabirds in the course of long line fishing and trawl fishing respectively) . These technical measures aim at reducing the risk of catching birds by using bird-scaring lines with plastic streamer attached, weighting lines and using only thawed bait in order to sink faster, prohibiting the discharge of offal at sea since it attracts seabirds to the lines, or setting lines at night. Furthermore, based on a Community initiative, the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT) has adopted Recommendation 02-14 related to seabird protection, the very first measure in the ICCAT area to tackle this matter. No new specific legislation is currently under preparation by the Commission. However, as the Honourable Members rightly point out, horizontal priority measures foreseen in the Community action plan to integrate environmental requirements into the Common Fisheries Policy COM(2002)186 final , like those aimed at reducing overall fishing pressure, or limiting fishing capacity or eliminating public aid that has a detrimental effect on the environment, will contribute to reducing by-catch of non target species in fisheries. In addition, the Community action plan for the eradication of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing COM(2002)180 final. , presented as part of the 2002 package on the reform of the Common Fisheries Policy, is also of particular significance in the context of accidental mortality of albatrosses in fisheries.