monetary thresholds Under current provisions the travellers from third countries entering the EU are exempted from VAT and excise duty on imports that are of non-commercial character and do not exceed a monetary value of EUR 175 or equivalents in national currencies for Member States outside of the Eurozone. The Directive lays down as well quantitative limits for certain good as mentioned above and additional provisions for special cases. The current Commission's proposal calls for an increase of the threshold up to EUR 220, taking into account the total EU inflation rate since the last revision in 1994 of the order of 25%. When it comes to tobacco products, taking account of the global public health campaign to combat smoking and its negative effects, the proposal introduces an option of reduced limits on tobacco products and a provision this be applied to land crossings only if desired by the Member States. Regarding alcoholic beverages, the Commission proposes to introduce a new quantitative limit on beer (16 litres) and an increase in the wine limits from 2 to 4 litres in order to guarantee some consistency and non-discrimination between all alcoholic beverages as in public health terms there is no clear evidence that one category of product is any safer than another. The new quantitative limit on beer, the only alcoholic beverage previously without such restrictions brings the other Member States into line with the Finnish derogation and aims to combat alcoholism which constitutes a major public health problem in the EU. Quantitative limits on coffee and tea products as well as perfume are to be abolished as an historical anomaly when such goods had large excise duties applied which is no longer the case. III. The Rapporteur’s opinion The Rapporteur welcomes and supports in general the Commission's proposal, in particular to increase the air travellers' exemption for goods to EUR 500, suggesting nevertheless introducing several new amendments: - the age below which the Member States can lower the monetary thresholds (15 years in the proposal) and the age for which the Member States shall not apply exemptions regarding quantitative limits on importing tobacco and alcohol beverages (17 years in the existing proposal), should both be set at 18; these traditional age limits unchanged since 1969 are historic anomalies as in most of the Member States the age of majority for activities such as voting, and drinking alcohol are set at 18 and the majority of the population are not financially autonomous below the age of 18 which may not have been the case 40 years ago. Nevertheless in the interests of subsidiarity Member States are still entitled to maintain the exemptions for general imported goods if this accords with national custom other than alcohol and cigarettes. The latter is medically justified as teenage drinking and smoking pose especially serious public health concerns. - a new category of travellers, along with air travellers, private pleasure-flying, frontier zone workers, should be introduced. Namely, the sea ferry and cruise travellers who are travelling on maritime journeys of a certain duration and distance; the exact required