"Georgia is counting on us...Europe must not flinch" - Marie Anne Isler Béguin External relations 2008-08-27 - 09:20 EU must take tough decisions President of the EP delegation with the South Caucasus countries, Marie Anne Isler Béguin was in Georgia just a few days after the beginning of the conflict in South Ossetia. Appointed by EP President Hans-Gert Pöttering to represent the Parliament, she participated in the ceasefire negotiations after the first phase of hostilities, and travelled in some of the areas directly affected. Subsequently, Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, Subcommittee on Security and Defence and the Delegation for relations with the South Caucasus met on Wednesday 20 August to discuss developments in Georgia. Georgian Minister Foreign Affairs Eka Tkeshelashvili was there and called on the EU to send a mission to Georgia We spoke with Ms Isler Béguin on the phone to hear first-hand about what she saw on the ground and to hear her views on possible prescriptions for a resolution of the situation. What was the situation when you were in Georgia and what did you observe? I was in Georgia from 11 to 17 August, at the time when the Russian army advanced on Tbilisi. I tried to go to Gori three times. In Kaspi (30 km from Tbilisi), I saw that the city's cement factory had been bombed, the bridge and railway line damaged. Even on Georgian territory and away from the conflict zone, the Russian bombardment had an impact. The population of the city was panicked. I was with the French ambassador when Medvedev signed the peace agreement. What we saw on the road between Kaspi and Gori was alarming, tanks were in position and the Russians entrenched. The army was deployed on Georgian territory. The Russian soldiers conducted a war of nerves against the population as no-one knew what they would do. Since the Russian withdrawal, I have received statements from Georgians that they have left villages. But there are still 500 Russian soldiers in Georgia to "ensure security". That is unacceptable. What should the international community do? The EU and the US must urgently negotiate a UN resolution to find a new way to regulate the conflict. The CIS soldiers - 99% Russian - were legitimate peacekeepers. But following this war, they are not acceptable to Georgia. The Russians were involved in the conflict, they cannot be peacekeepers. Credible peacekeepers, in the eyes of the Georgians, must be found. UN troops must be deployed in Georgia and in the conflict zones. Mediation by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe is not working, it was supposed to send 100 observers and has sent only 20. To be credible and restore confidence in the defence of democracy we must see the blue helmets (of the UN). There was a war. What are you expecting from the EU summit on the subject organised by France for 1 September? The EU supports Georgia through its neighbourhood policy. The situation there is fragile and so long as these conflicts remain unresolved we can't move forward. It is urgent