in these cases), and the EIB covers the commercial risk. The last loan granted to these 10 States will have been repaid in 2021. Commission proposal and draftsman’s position The Commission proposes a modification to the Council regulation establishing the Fund in order to ensure an orderly transfer of these liabilities from the Fund to the budget. Once the regulation has been modified, these rules will apply to similar situations arising under future accessions. This is the import of the first amendment proposed by the Commission, which your draftsman endorses. The second amendment concerns calculation of the amount of reduction of the reserve mentioned above, on the accession to the EU of a non-member State benefiting from the Guarantee Fund. The proposed amendment states that ‘the surplus shall be paid back to a special heading in the statement of revenue in the general budget of the European Union’. In this connection, your draftsman proposes an amendment clarifying the final use to which this surplus in the Community budget will be put, which is to fund projects to reinforce nuclear safety in the Member States and non-member States. In its third amendment, at Article 7 concerning submission of an annual report on the situation of the Fund and the management thereof in the previous year, the Commission replaces ‘31 March’ with ‘30 June’. Your draftsman would prefer to set this date at 30 May (cf. Justification for Amendment 2). Your draftsman notes that when these 10 countries withdraw from the Guarantee Fund mechanism, this will create a new space and new capacity to fund loans in the context of the global capacity to grant loans conferred on the Fund up to the existing ceilings. The impact that this financing capacity should have on other countries or regions and the nature of the projects that may be envisaged are currently the subject of another report on Commission proposal COM(2003) 603 . Your draftsman stresses, however, the need to bring the objectives of these loans into line with the new innovative guidelines on EU energy policy, and draws your attention to the fact that the Euratom loans instrument contravenes fair competition conditions and also discriminates in favour of nuclear technology in comparison with other electricity sources. Care should be taken that these loans are not granted to fund construction of new nuclear reactors and that appropriations are only granted with a view to measurable reinforcement of security standards and improving safety in the reactors that already exist in non-member States. These principles must also inform the use that will be made in the Community budget of appropriations repaid from the Guarantee Fund following accession of a non-member State to the Communities. Finally, your draftsman points out that Parliament has called for abolition of the Euratom Treaty in 2007 Resolution on the Commission Green Paper entitled ‘Towards a European energy supply strategy’ ( COM(2000) 769 – C5-0142/2001 – 2001/2071(COS)). and for a special conference to be organised to revise the Treaty. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy calls on