misinterpreted the concept of " financial supervision of the entire business " contrary to Articles 8 See Part II, Sections II.1.1 and Part II, section II.2.3; see also WE 16 (Ch. 16; ch. 19, para. 210; ch. 18, para.220; ch. 21) and WE Conf 3. , 18 See Part II Section II.1.1 and Part II Section II.2.3; see also WE Conf 11, WE 16, WE 26 and WE 79. and 25 See Part II Section II.1.1 and Part II Section II.2.3; see also WE 17. of the 3LD. 8. The committee believes that the option contained in paragraph 1.D of Article 18 of the 3LD does not exclude future discretionary or non-contractual bonuses from being an integral part of the company's ‘entire business’ and does not exonerate Member State authorities from doing their utmost to respect the letter and the aim of the Directive. Furthermore, it appears from the material available to the committee See Part Section II.2.3, see also WE 16, WE 26 and WE 79. that one of the main reasons for ELAS’ financial downfall was the fact that, throughout the years, it did not properly reserve for future discretionary or non-contractual bonuses. 9. It has been argued that ELAS was not obliged to reserve for future discretionary or non-contractual bonuses because this was optional under the Directive, and the UK regulator decided not to avail itself of this option. The committee believes that the fact of making the reserving of discretionary bonuses optional undermined the strength and internal coherence of the Directive. Although the UK regulatory authorities were entitled to introduce such an option, it could be argued that this was inconsistent with the overall aim of the Directive. 10. Submissions made to the committee See WE 16, ch. 19, para 210. suggest that the regulator tended to focus on solvency margins in a narrow sense and took little or no account of future discretionary and non-contractual bonuses in its overall analysis of the financial health of the company. The committee believes therefore that it is likely that the regulator did not manage to guarantee that ELAS had an adequate solvency margin in respect of its entire business at all times. Lack of sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms 11. There are clear indications that the UK regulators knowingly failed to challenge the dual, and therefore conflicting, role of the Appointed Actuary of ELAS, who for six years also held a leading management post in the Society as its Chief Executive. The committee believes that this duality of roles created a conflict of interests detrimental to policyholders' interests which should have been challenged by regulators as an instance of bad corporate governance. Furthermore, the committee believes that, by not taking swift action on the issue of the double role of the Appointed Actuary, the UK regulator did not fulfil its obligation to require from ELAS " sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms " as required explicitly by the 3LD, and contrary to Article 8. See Part II Section II.1.1 and Part