14 November 2002 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to Oral Question B5‑0498/2002 pursuant to Rule 42(5) of the Rules of Procedure by Cristiana Muscardini on behalf of the UEN Group on the internal market: media pluralism and media concentration in an enlarged European Union European Parliament resolution on the internal market: media pluralism and media concentration in an enlarged European Union The European Parliament , A. whereas pluralism must be understood as a guarantee of diversity of information and pluralism of the media and means of information is a fundamental principle of modern democracy, B. whereas the media industry has the task of safeguarding the social, ethical and cultural values of our society, irrespective of the technology it uses to reach the consumer, C. whereas enlargement will necessarily entail changes to the internal market as regards the media, D. whereas developments in digital technology and software are creating the technological potential for a new approach to broadcasting and the use of information services, but with the potential risk that specific national laws regulating the subject may be circumvented, E. whereas operators in the telecommunications, media and information technology sector continue to compete among themselves for markets and to protect the markets they already have, F. whereas although there is general consensus about the convergence of different network platforms, i.e. technological convergence, there is no general consensus about the desirability of and timetable for total convergence of services and markets, G. whereas the national mechanisms to protect pluralism which have been set up in the Member States can be applied to situations with a Community dimension, H. whereas the Treaties and secondary legislation on competition already sanction the European Union’s competence to prevent any media concentrations which may adversely affect pluralism only in so far as the concentrations also adversely affect competition in the single market, I. whereas the aim of maintaining media pluralism is in itself neither a Community objective nor a Community competence laid down in the Treaties, but the balance between the media is regulated by the provisions issued by the Member States on the subject; the European Union, in achieving its aims and exercising its competences, must ensure that its activities and those relevant to its competence do not jeopardise pluralism, 1. Affirms that pluralism in the media and means of information in general, because of the capacity of such systems to reach and influence the behaviour of an increasingly large number of people more and more rapidly, has taken on a fundamental role in modern society, not least from the ethical and social points of view. For this reason it must be safeguarded as a practical principle of modern democracy; 2. Maintains that concentration in the media sector may have positive or negative effects on pluralism depending on the global context in which it happens. It can have a positive impact on pluralism, as for example when it enables the broadcasting area of the media to be extended or prevents their disappearance; it can have a negative impact if the concentration leads to the disappearance of newspaper titles