Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (8 September 2005) The Commission acknowledges that in many cases international roaming charges appear to be high and often without clear justification. For that reason, the Commission is actively using the instruments at its disposal to address any competition problems that may exist in this market. First, under the regulatory framework for electronic communications Directive 2002/21/EC (Framework Directive); Directive 2002/19/EC (Access Directive); Directive 2002/20/EC (Authorisation Directive); Directive 2002/22/EC (Universal Service Directive), all in OJ L 108, 24.4.2002; and Directive 2002/58/EC (directive on privacy and electronic communications), OJ L 201, 31.7.2002. , national regulatory authorities must analyse their relevant markets to determine the effectiveness of competition before deciding whether to impose remedies. In this case, the relevant market is the wholesale national market for international roaming. The Commission has been encouraging the national regulatory authorities to complete their analyses of this market. The Commission notes that the European Regulators Group (ERG) recently has adopted a ‘Common position on international roaming’ ERG common position on the coordinated analysis of the markets for wholesale international roaming, ERG (05) 20, 25.5.2005. . However, the national regulatory authorities must proceed to analyse their national markets and shall notify the Commission of the results of their analysis. The Commission is also using its own investigative and enforcement powers under the competition rules of the EC Treaty to combat anti-competitive behaviour by specific network operators. Proceedings have been initiated against operators in Germany and the United Kingdom, which allege that these operators may have charged excessively high wholesale tariffs, thus keeping retail roaming charges paid by EU consumers at unduly high levels. These proceedings are still in progress. While there have been some indications that the market may be becoming less rigid in tackling this problem, with some operators introducing simplified tariff packages, the Commission believes that roaming prices are still very high and more could be done to increase transparency for the consumer. It is for this reason that the Commission has recently announced that it will take measures to enhance the transparency of international mobile roaming charges to help consumers to choose the best offer. Specifically, the Commission will start publishing, from autumn 2005 onwards, a special website listing samples of international roaming retail tariffs of operators in the 25 EU Member States. The Commission also welcomes the recent announcement by national regulatory authorities that they too will investigate actions to enhance transparency and awareness for consumers. This action, which the Commission will follow closely, will complement that of the Commission.