Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (3 July 2006) The Commission keeps close track of political developments affecting the people of Moldova and, in particular, takes an active role in the Border Advisory Mission under the EU common foreign and security policy. Relations have become even closer with the recent opening in Chisinau of the office of the EC Delegation to Moldova. Upon Romanian accession, relevant parts of its international borders, for example with Moldova, will become part of the EU's external border. A Commission funded programme (the external border initiative) is in hand to support appropriate border facilities and arrangements. The existing rail links between Moldova and other countries are indeed ‘very much geared to its former relations with the Soviet Union’. The question of railway inter-operability between ‘ex-Soviet’ networks and those of neighbouring Member States was one of the aspects carefully covered by the Commission's High Level Working Group, chaired by Mrs De Palacio, in its report ‘Networks for peace and development’ published in November 2005 The full text is available at http://ec.europa.eu/ten/transport/external_dimension/hlg/index_en.htm . A Commission communication based on this report is expected to be presented shortly. The report of the High Level Working Group did not recommend the inclusion of new rail links between Romania and Moldova in one of the trans-European transport corridors. In fact, the existing route forms part of the TEN-T rail Corridor IX. The report makes clear that a considerable reduction in travel time could already be achieved by means of relatively simple administrative measures. It should be noted that such improvements have not been selected as the highest priority by Romania together with Moldova in the framework of the joint management of their cross‑border cooperation programme under the Phare programme. It remains to be seen what will be the priorities, after Romania's accession, under the future European neighbourhood programme initiative.