is effectively addressed, G. whereas illegal trade seriously undermines the global agenda of environmental and developmental sustainability, undermines good governance and facilitates the spread of communicable diseases, H. whereas species covered by CITES are listed in the CITES Appendices on the basis of their conservation status and because they are or may be affected by trade; whereas CITES Appendix I contains species threatened with extinction, international trade in which is prohibited; whereas CITES Appendix II includes species in relation to which trade must be controlled in order to avoid utilisation incompatible with their survival; whereas CITES Appendix III contains species that are protected in at least one country, which has asked other CITES Parties for assistance in controlling the trade, I. whereas the Principality of Monaco submitted a proposal to list northern bluefin tuna in CITES Appendix I in order to establish an interim suspension of international commercial trade in the species, J. whereas the scientific committee of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), at its meeting of 21-23 October 2009, estimated that the current spawning stock biomass of northern bluefin tuna is less than 15% of what it was before fishing began, therefore confirming that the species meets this criteria for a CITES Appendix I listing, K. whereas porbeagles and spiny dogfish are highly vulnerable to overexploitation in fisheries and very slow to recover due to their biological characteristics (slow growth, late maturity, low reproductive capacity, longevity and long generation time), L. whereas CITES Appendix II listing for those species is necessary to ensure that future international trade is supplied by sustainably managed, accurately recorded fisheries that are not detrimental to the status of the wild populations they exploit, M. whereas CITES Resolution Conf. 9.24 states that species qualify for listing in CITES Appendix I if, inter alia, they ‘are or may be affected by trade’ and if they show a ‘marked decline in the population size in the wild, which has been [...] inferred or projected on the basis of [...] a decrease in area of habitat or a decrease in quality of habitat’, N. whereas polar bears are severely threatened by loss of habitat due to climate change, which is leading to declining populations throughout most of their range, and they are negatively affected by commercial trade in their body parts which has increased since the 1990s, O. whereas CITES Parties agreed during their 14th meeting (CoP 14) that there should be no further proposals to trade in ivory for a period of at least nine years, P. whereas the initial call, in discussions at CoP 14, was for a resting period of 20 years and whereas, since then, there have been significant seizures of ivory and reports of widespread and increasing levels of poaching, Q. whereas Asian big-cat populations remain under threat from poaching, habitat depletion and prey loss and whereas, despite repeated calls, there has been a disappointing lack of progress in many areas with regard to firm action to halt the decline of tigers and other big cats, R. whereas CITES Decision