Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (28 April 2009) The Honourable Member asks the Commission to re-think the phasing out of the milk quota system and to change existing regulations to help milk producers. In the question the Honourable Member states that milk production has increased. However, while it is true that on 1 April 2008 milk quotas have been increased by 2 % in all Member States and by 2.5 % in 11 Member States milk production has actually gone down. So the quota increase on 1 April 2008 did not play a role in the current market circumstances. It is rather the reduction in demand due to the economic difficulties that cause the current problems on the dairy market. The use of classical market management instruments like private storage, export refunds and intervention is not a change in the approach decided in the Health Check. The Health Check provides for a further market oriented Common Agricultural Policy via decoupling, reducing support to a safety net level and eliminating, amongst others, milk quota. The re-activation of the classical market instruments is providing the safety net under difficult market circumstances, just as was meant by the Health Check decisions. As regards the phasing out of the quota, the so called soft landing addressed in the Health Check is the process in which quotas become less and less relevant for farmers' production decisions. From that perspective, the current development in which the EU milk production in the quota year 2008/2009 has so far been reduced by 0.4 % while quotas were increased by 2 % is the right development, proving that the sector is responding to market signals in accordance with the philosophy of the 2003 reform. It is also correct, as the Honourable Member says that the current circumstances may require exceptional responses. In that context the European summit agreed on an exceptional package to stimulate the economy. This package includes an amount of EUR 1.02 billion for broadband in rural areas and new challenges which includes dairy restructuring, of which EUR 600 million is already available in 2009. This would accelerate the results of the Health Check as the financing of eligible actions would start one year earlier than foreseen in the Health Check. The Commission follows the market very closely and will continue to act, if necessary, using the most appropriate set of market management measures.