be illusory, however, to think this problem can be solved before May next year in such a way that all discrimination will have been banned. That would take at least a generation. Jas GAWRONSKI (EPP-ED, I) pointed out that Poland is by far the biggest of the acceding countries and thus has the most problems. However, part of the problem lies in Brussels, which has delayed spelling out clearly what the problems are. Mr Verheugen said he was not aware of delays, but stressed that the problems with Polish agricultural administration had been known for one and half years. It was at first very hesitant and then changed its strategy and that resulted in delays. Mr Verheugen did acknowledge that the EU administrative structures in many areas were extremely complicated, so much so that even very willing countries were not able to fulfil all requirements. The Sapard programme was a case in point. Who is responsible for this complexity, was another matter. Luis QUÉIRO (EPP-ED, P) asked the Commission how it assessed the situation with the Status Law on Hungarians living in neighbouring countries. He also inquired about the Commission's position regarding a recent financial scandal, which might indicate that Hungary's financial supervision is not yet in order. Mr Verheugen did not wish to bring up the problems with the Hungarian status legislation again. He pointed out that Hungary and Romania had found an agreement and that talks were under way between Hungary and Slovakia. Should these not result in an agreement, then European legislation would come into force by May next year, which forbids discrimination on the basis of nationality. On the financial scandal Mr Verheugen said he did not believe it to be a systematic problem and he did not wish to enter into an internal policy debate in Hungary. Hannes SWOBODA (PES, D) applauded the visible measures against corruption taken recently in Romania. He expressed his concern, however, over the small-scale criminality flowing over into neighbouring countries. Mr Swoboda appealed to the Commission to prevent Turkey being used as a campaigning issue in the upcoming European elections. Mr Verheugen pointed out that politicians are free to choose their own campaign items. He felt, moreover, that citizens had every right to have an open debate on these issues. Geoffrey VAN ORDEN (EPP-ED, Eastern) hoped negotiations with Bulgaria would be completed by May next year and stressed that each country should be able to join on its own merits. Mr Verheugen agreed that no country should be made to wait for another. But he did not think a decoupling of the negotiations with Romania and Bulgaria would be necessary. The monitoring and progress reports will be debated by Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee in February next year, which will draw up a resolution for debate by the full House in March next year. Relevant links: European Commission's Comprehensive Monitoring Report Progress report on Bulgaria Progress report on Romania Progress report on Turkey Intergovernmental Conference MEPs concerned over progress in the IGC Statement by the Council Presidency and the Commission on the progress