ecosystem is reduced through a system of mitigation and compensation. 3.11. Water policy Substances on the list of priority hazardous substances for water policy annexed to Directive 2000/60/EC should not be approved. 4. Criteria for approval as a candidate for substitution An active substance shall be defined as a candidate for substitution pursuant to Article 25 where any of the following conditions are met : – its ADI, ARfD or AOEL is ▐ lower than those of the majority of the approved active substances , taking into account residents, bystanders and the most vulnerable population groups; – it meets one of the criteria to be considered as a PBT substance; – it is prone to leaching to groundwater; – there are reasons for concern linked to the nature of the critical effects and properties which may give rise to very restrictive risk management measures (such as extensive personal protective equipment or very large buffer zones); – it has potentially endocrine disrupting, neurotoxic or immunotoxic properties, in adults or during development, on the basis of assessment and other available data and information including a review of scientific literature; – it contains a significant proportion of non-active isomers. Annex II List of active substances approved for inclusion in plant protection products ANNEX III List of co-formulants, safeners and synergists approved for inclusion in plant protection products ANNEX IV Comparative assessment pursuant to Article 53 1. Conditions for comparative assessment A comparative assessment shall be performed by Member States when evaluating an application for authorisation for a plant protection product. In this process, priority shall be given to plant protection products containing an active substance approved as a candidate for substitution. Where refusal or withdrawal of an authorisation of a plant protection product in favour of an alternative plant protection product is considered (hereinafter "substitution"), the alternative must, in the light of scientific and technical knowledge, show significantly lower risk to health or the environment. An assessment of the alternative plant protection product shall be performed to demonstrate whether it can be used with similar effect on the target organism and without significant economic and practical disadvantages to the user or not. Further conditions for refusal or withdrawal of an authorisation are: a) substitution shall be applied only where the ▐diversity of the active substances and other non-chemical methods of plant protection and pest and crop management is sufficient to minimise the occurrence of resistance in the target organism; b) substitution may be applied by Member States to all active substances which, where used in authorised plant protection products, present a ▐higher level of risk to human health or the environment; ▐ 2. Significant difference in risk A significant difference in risk , especially for health risks, shall be identified on a case-by-case basis by the competent authorities, taking into account known cumulative and synergistic effects . The properties of the active substance, and the possibility of exposure of different population subgroups (professional or non-professional users, bystanders, workers, residents, specific vulnerable groups or consumers) directly or indirectly through food, feed, water or the environment shall