small U.S. federal law enforcement agency headquartered in the District of Columbia, whose mission is to ensure the integrity of the constitutional mission of the U.S. Supreme Court by protecting the Supreme Court building, the Justices, employees, guests, and visitors.", " In accordance with , the Supreme Court Police falls under the jurisdiction of the Marshal of the United States Supreme Court who is appointed by the Supreme Court.", " The Marshal and the Supreme Court Police are authorized by to police the Supreme Court Building and protect the Justices, employees of the Court, and visitors to the Court." ] ], [ "United States v. Graham", [ "United States v. Graham, 846 F. Supp.", " 2d 384 (D. Md. 2012), was a Maryland District Court case in which the Court held that historical cell site location data is not protected by the Fourth Amendment.", " Reacting to precedent established by the recent Supreme Court case \"United States v. Jones\" in conjunction with the application of the third party doctrine, Judge Richard D. Bennett, found that \"information voluntarily disclosed to a third party ceases to enjoy Fourth Amendment protection\" because that information no longer belongs to the consumer, but rather to the telecommunications company that handles the transmissions records.", " The historical cell site location data is then not subject to the privacy protections afforded by the Fourth Amendment standard of probable cause, but rather to the Stored Communications Act, which governs the voluntary or compelled disclosure of stored electronic communications records." ] ], [ "Mitchel v Reynolds", [ "Mitchel v. Reynolds is a landmark decision in the history of the law of restraint of trade.", " It is generally cited for establishing the principle that reasonable restraints of trade, unlike unreasonable restraints of trade, are permissible and therefore enforceable and not a basis for civil or criminal liability.", " It is largely the basis in US antitrust law for the \"rule of reason.\"", " William Howard Taft, then Chief Judge of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals, later US President and then Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, quoted \"Mitchel\" extensively when he first developed the antitrust rule-of-reason doctrine in \"United States v. Addyston Pipe & Steel Co.\", which was affirmed in 1899 by the Supreme Court.", " The doctrine also played a major role in the 1911 Supreme Court case \"Standard Oil Company of New Jersey v. United States\" 221 U.S. 1 (1911)." ] ], [ "Pepper v. United States", [ "Pepper v. United States, 562 U.S. 476 (2011), is a decision by the Supreme Court of the United States concerning whether a United States District Court properly handled the sentencing of a former methamphetamine dealer.", " He was originally sentenced to 24 months in prison, far shorter than what federal guidelines generally specify for crimes of that nature.", " Prosecutors appealed the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which remanded the case back to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Iowa, which affirmed the original sentence after testimony relating the