and promote human rights; calls on the Special Procedures Coordination Committee to work in an efficient and transparent manner in order to avoid technical debates which could delay substantive debates and hamper the mandates of Special Procedures; Complaint p rocedure 30. Notes that the complaint procedure outlined as part of the UNHRC's institution-building process appears to be very similar to the former '1503 procedure'; calls for a new process which will be more effective in identifying, preventing and addressing situations of manifest gross human rights violations; EU involvement 31. Recognises the active involvement of the EU and its Member States in the first year of work of the UNHRC; 32. Welcomes the involvement of the EU in the difficult negotiations at the sixth regular session to achieve positive results regarding the renewal of the Special Procedures mandates in particular; 33. Points to the need for the EU to speak with one voice to address human rights issues, but also to the importance of each EU Member State's voicing the EU position in order to give it more weight; 34. Calls for enhanced cooperation with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights and for preservation of its independence by granting it adequate funding; 35. Calls for ongoing support for Special Procedures in terms of finance and staff; gives its support for the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR), as it is an important source of financing for the Special Procedures; welcomes the initiatives of the Working Party on Human Rights (COHOM) presidency to enhance its cooperation with Special Rapporteurs, notably by systematic invitations to relevant meetings; 36. Calls on the Commission and the Council to adopt a 'common position' so as to ensure that EU Member States automatically sign and ratify all international human rights instruments; 37. Notes the EU's work in favour of the adoption of resolutions by consensus; calls on the EU Member States to pursue their efforts to engage with countries from other regional groups in order to guarantee broad support for resolutions strengthening protection and promotion of human rights; calls on the EU to make more effective use of its aid and political support for third countries, so as to give them an incentive to cooperate with the UNHRC; 38. Mandates the European Parliament delegation to the seventh session of the UNHRC to voice the concerns expressed in this resolution, calls on the delegation to report to the Subcommittee on Human Rights on its visit, and considers it appropriate to continue sending a European Parliament delegation to relevant sessions of the UNHRC; o o o 39. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the UN Security Council, the UN Secretary-General, the President of the 61st UN General Assembly, the President of the UN Human Rights Council, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and the EU-UN working group established by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.