be placed at the beginning of the offence notification in order to provide better information. Amendment 37 Proposal for a directive Annex - form for the offence notification - page 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Reply form Reply form (please complete using block capitals and mark the applicable option) (please complete using block capitals and mark the applicable option) A. Identity of the driver: A. Identity of the driver: Were you the driver of the vehicle at the time of the commission of the offence (yes/no) If yes, please complete the following: - Name and first name: - Name and first name: - Place and date of birth: - Place and date of birth: - Number of driving licence:...delivered - Number of driving licence:...delivered (date):...and at (place): (date):...and at (place): - Address: - Address: If you were not the driver of the vehicle at the time of the commission of the offence, are you able to indicate the identity of the driver (yes/no) If yes, please complete the following in respect of the driver : - Name and first name: - Place and date of birth: - Number of driving licence:...delivered (date):...and at (place): - Address: B. List of questions: B. List of questions: (1) Is the vehicle, make... registration number...registered in your name? (1) Is the vehicle, make... registration number...registered in your name? yes/no yes/no If not, the holder of the registration certificate is: If not, the holder of the registration certificate is: (name, first name, address) (name, first name, address) (2) Do you acknowledge that you committed the offence? (2) Do you acknowledge that you committed the offence? yes/no yes/no (3) If you do not acknowledge this, please explain why: (3) If you do not acknowledge this, including refusing to reveal the identity of the driver, please explain why: Please send the completed form within 60 days from the date of this notification to the following authority: Please send the completed form within 60 days from the date of this notification to the following authority: at the following address at the following address Justification The amendments proposed in the text must be reflected in the form. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT A new legal instrument to reduce by 50% the number of persons killed on European roads by 2010 On the occasion of the White Paper on European transport policy published in 2001, the European Union set itself the ambitious objective of reducing by 50% the number of persons killed on the roads by 2010, a target that now applies to all the 27 Member States. When the White Paper was issued in a Europe of 25 Member States, the number of road traffic fatalities was 54 000 Source: Care (EU database on road accidents) or national publications. . Since then significant progress has been made, and there has been a general downward trend in road deaths. However, this progress took place mostly during the first half of the decade. Since 2005 the reduction in the number of road deaths has been slowing down. In 2007 over 40 000 people were