WRITTEN QUESTION E-1057/09 by Werner Langen (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (20 February 2009) Subject: Classification of invert sugar syrup in the REACH system The REACH Regulation ((EC) No 1907/2006 OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1. ) contains provisions on the registration of substances. Substances listed in Annexes IV and V, among others, are excepted from this registration requirement, representing as they do a proven minimal risk, given their inherent properties. Substances are also exempted from the registration requirement if they are used in foodstuffs. This does not, however, apply to the same substances of identical quality if they are used in non-exempted areas. In chemical terms, invert sugar is made up of glucose, fructose, sucrose and water only. All of these components of invert sugar are, under Annex IV (water, as a natural substance, under Annex V) excepted from the registration requirement. 90 % of invert sugar of this quality is used in foodstuffs. Under the REACH Regulation, however, this state of affairs becomes less simple: where invert sugar syrup is manufactured from the abovementioned components by mixing, it is deemed to be a ‘preparation’ under Article 3(2) of the REACH Regulation. Under the usual procedure, invert sugar syrups are only produced using the acid- or enzyme-catalysed, partial hydrolysis of sucrose dissolved in water (inversion). If invert sugar syrup were classified as a multi-component substance, i.e. as a new substance, it would be subject to a registration requirement, although the end-products (invert sugar) of the two processes described are chemically identical. This would also mean that, contrary to the framework conditions laid down for REACH and to animal protection law, ethically unjustifiable animal experiments would have to be conducted. If, on the other hand, in accordance with the sucrose inversion process described above, the chromatographically isolated glucose and fructose from the reaction mixture were stored and then remixed with sucrose, the invert sugar syrup thus produced would not be subject to a registration requirement. I would therefore like to ask the Commission the following questions: 1. Does the application of the guidance document to the above example of sucrose inversion not lead to a violation of the proportionality principle; i.e. should the cases of pure mixing, inversion and the combined variants, given their identical and totally harmless composition, not all be exempt from the registration requirement? 2. The differing registration requirement classifications of identical substances is based on a Commission guidance document which is not part of the regulation. Should multi‑component substances within the meaning of this guidance document not be exempted from registration?