access to central counterparty, clearing and settlement systems in their territory for the purposes of finalising transactions in financial instruments. Member States shall ensure that access of those investment firms to such facilities is subject to the same transparent and objective commercial criteria as apply to local participants. Member States shall not restrict the use of those facilities to the clearing and settlement of transactions in financial instruments undertaken on a regulated market or MTF in their territory. 2. Member States shall ensure that regulated markets in their territory offer direct, indirect and remote members or participants the right to designate the system for the settlement of transactions in financial instruments undertaken on that regulated market, subject to: a) such links and arrangements between the designated settlement system and any other system or facility as are necessary to ensure the efficient and economic settlement of the transaction in question; and b) agreement by the competent authority responsible for the regulated market that technical conditions for settlement of transactions concluded on the regulated market through a settlement system other than that designated by the regulated market are such as to allow the smooth and orderly functioning of financial markets. 3. The rights of investment firms under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be without prejudice to the right of operators of central counterparty, clearing or securities settlement systems to refuse on legitimate commercial grounds to make the requested services available. 4. In order to ensure the consistent application of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, the Commission shall adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), implementing measures which clarify: a) the nature of the technical links between settlement systems designated by investment firms and other systems and facilities which are needed to ensure the efficient and economic settlement of transactions, and the conditions under which those links are to be considered adequate for the purposes of this Article; b) those considerations which a competent authority is entitled to take into account when assessing whether the settlement of transactions on a regulated market through a securities settlement system other than that designated by the regulated market might prove prejudicial to the smooth and orderly functioning of financial markets. TITLE III REGULATED MARKETS Article 34 Authorisation and applicable law 1. Member States shall reserve authorisation as a regulated market to those entities on their territory which comply with the provisions of this Title. Authorisation as a regulated market shall be granted only where the competent authority is satisfied that both the market operator and the rules and systems of the regulated market comply with the requirements laid down in this Title. In the event of a regulated market being a legal person and being managed or operated by a market operator other than the regulated market itself, Member States shall establish how the obligations imposed on market operators under this Directive are to be apportioned between the regulated market and the market operator. 2. Member States shall require the operator of a regulated market to perform tasks relating to the organisation and operation