which may receive a Community grant under the programme will come under one of the following strands: The activities carried out by organisations which may receive a Community grant under the programme will come under one of the following strands: Justification This amendment aims to maintain coherence in the text of the Commission proposal. Amendment 16 Annex, paragraph 2, point 2.1 2.1. Strand 1: ongoing activities of the European Women's Lobby, whose members are women's organisations in the Member States of the European Union, respecting the following principles: 2.1. Strand 1: ongoing activities of the European Women's Lobby, whose members are , inter alia, women's organisations in the Member States of the European Union, respecting the following principles: Justification According to the Statutes of the European Women's Lobby, the members of that association are non-governmental organisations, women's sections of non-governmental organisations, and natural persons. Amendment 17 Annex, paragraph 2, point 2.1., second indent - the European Women's Lobby must be free to pursue its activities in accordance with point 1. 2 . of the Annex. - the European Women's Lobby must be free to pursue its activities in accordance with point 1. 1 . of the Annex. Justification The reference should be to point 1.1., which is the one dealing with the activities of the European Women's Lobby. Amendment 18 Annex, paragraph 2, point 2.2, first subparagraph 2.2. Strand 2: ongoing activities of an organisation pursuing an objective of general European interest in the field of gender equality or an objective which is part of the European Union's policy in this area . 2.2. Strand 2: ongoing activities of a non-profit-making organisation pursuing an objective of general European interest in the field of gender equality: Justification Self-explanatory. Amendment 19 Annex, point 2.2., paragraph 2 In accordance with Article 2 of the Decision, this applies to a non-profit-making body carrying out its activities exclusively in order to achieve equality between women and men or an organisation with a wider aim which carries out part of its activities exclusively to promote equality between women and men . In accordance with Article 2 of the Decision, this applies to a non-profit-making body carrying out its activities exclusively in order to achieve equality between women and men , inter alia by combating violence as an obstacle to equality. Justification According to the Beijing Platform for Action (Paragraph 112), violence against women is an obstacle to the achievement of the objectives of equality, development and peace. Amendment 20 Annex, paragraph 3, point 3.3 3.3. Bodies entitled to receive a grant for specific action under strand 3 of the programme will be selected on the basis of calls for proposals. 3.3. Bodies entitled to receive a grant for specific action under strand 3 of the programme will be selected on the basis of calls for proposals. The priority themes and types of activity of calls for proposals will be communicated to the European Parliament before proceeding to the calls for proposal. Justification In order to keep control over the Commission's priorities when issuing a call for proposals, the