The Minister of Justice, in reply to the questions submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs, explains most of the observations made by Dr Zelezný and expressed its conviction that the bodies active in criminal proceedings conducted against Dr Zelezný have acted in accordance with the law and have in no way been influenced by the Government or by its Members. II. PARLIAMENTARY IMMUNITY OF MEMBERS OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT: TEXTS AND PRINCIPLES 1. Article 10 of the Protocol of the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities( () See also Article 9 of this Protocol: 'Members of the European Parliament shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties.' ), annexed to the Treaty establishing a Single Council and a Single Commission of the European Communities( ()Referred to in Article 4(2) of the Act concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage of 20 September 1976. ), which incorporates the provisions of Article 9 of each of the protocols annexed to the Treaties establishing the ECSC, the EEC and the EAEC, reads as follows: During the sessions of the European Parliament, its Members shall enjoy: (a) in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliament; (b) in the territory of any other Member States, immunity from any measure of detention and from legal proceedings. Immunity shall likewise apply to Members while they are travelling to and from the place of meeting of the European Parliament. Immunity cannot be claimed when a Member is found in the act of committing an offence and shall not prevent the European Parliament from exercising its right to waive the immunity of one of its Members. 2. The charges brought against Dr Vladimír Železný, a Czech MEP, relate to events that took place within the territory of the Czech Republic. Dr Železný therefore enjoys the same immunities as those granted to Members of the Czech Parliament, as based on Article 26 of the Czech Constitution. 3. The procedure to be followed by the European Parliament is laid down in Rules 6 and 7 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. Ever since its Members have been elected by direct suffrage, Parliament has responded to applications for the parliamentary immunity of its Members to be waived. Certain general principles have emerged from Parliament's deliberations; these were given recognition in the resolution adopted at the sitting of 10 March 1987( ( 1 ) OJ No C 99, 13.4.1987, p. 44 1 ) on the basis of Mr Donnez's report on the draft Protocol revising the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities of 8 April 1965 in respect of Members of the European Parliament ( A2‑121/86 ). 5. It seems useful to remind the principles that are applicable to the case under consideration, stressing the need for decisions on waivers of immunity to have a sound legal basis so that they are not influenced by