3. Calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly, pursuant to Article 119, second paragraph, of the Euratom Treaty; 4. Calls on the Council to notify Parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 5. Calls for initiation of the conciliation procedure under the Joint Declaration of 4 March 1975 if the Council intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 6. Asks the Council to consult Parliament again if it intends to amend the Commission proposal substantially; 7. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 13 (13) The Joint Research Center should contribute to the attainment of the objectives set out above by carrying out direct activities and by providing customer-driven support for the implementation of EU policies. (13) The Joint Research Center has the crucial role of providing customer-driven scientific and technological support for the conception, development, implementation and monitoring of EU policies. Continuous support should be given to the Joint Research Center to allow it to function as a reference center of science and technology for the EU, independent of private and national interests. Justification This wording is exactly the same as the description of JRC's role as decided by the Council in FP5, and confirms that it will continue in FP7 as it has in FP6 . Amendment 2 Recital 16 (16) Appropriate measures should also be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and the necessary steps should be taken to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities financial interests, (EC, Euratom) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the European Communities’ financial interests against fraud and other irregularities and Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). (16) Appropriate measures should also be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and the necessary steps should be taken to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities financial interests, (EC, Euratom) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the European Communities’ financial interests against fraud and other irregularities and Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). In any case, steps should be taken to ensure that any funds recovered from frauds and irregularities committed in breach of the abovementioned regulations are returned to the Framework Programme and earmarked essentially for the training of research staff and scientific advisory activities. Justification This should be made clear, given the budget restrictions affecting the seventh framework programme. Amendment 3 Article 3, paragraph 1, introductory part The