Supreme Court which applied the Establishment Clause in the country's Bill of Rights to State law.", " Prior to this decision the First Amendment words, \"Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion\" imposed limits only on the federal government, while many states continued to grant certain religious denominations legislative or effective privileges.", " This was the first Supreme Court case incorporating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment as binding upon the states through the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.", " The decision in \"Everson\" marked a turning point in the interpretation and application of disestablishment law in the modern era." ] ], [ "Serbian Orthodox Diocese v. Milivojevich", [ "Serbian Orthodox Diocese v. Milivojevich, 426 U. S. 696 (1976), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the judicial determination of the Illinois Supreme Court violated the First Amendment and Fourteenth Amendments.", " In matters of dispute within hierarchal religious organizations, the Establishment Clause precludes intervention by civil courts regarding internal disputes of church governance.", " Per the Establishment Clause, decisions imposed by hierarchal religious organizations are binding in civil courts." ] ], [ "Neo-creationism", [ "Neo-creationism is a pseudoscientific movement which aims to restate creationism in terms more likely to be well received by the public, by policy makers, by educators and by the scientific community.", " It aims to re-frame the debate over the origins of life in non-religious terms and without appeals to scripture.", " This comes in response to the 1987 ruling by the United States Supreme Court in \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" that creationism is an inherently religious concept and that advocating it as correct or accurate in public-school curricula violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment." ] ], [ "Wright v. Houston Independent School District", [ "Wright v. Houston Independent School District was a 1972 American legal case brought by a parent of a student in the Houston Independent School District in Houston, Texas suing on behalf of her daughter and fellow students to prevent the district from teaching evolution as fact and without reference to alternative theories.", " The plaintiffs claimed evolutionary theory endorsed a secularist religious view, and argued the school's failure to incorporate the teaching of a particular religious alternative to evolutionary theory as derived from the Bible's creation account held that religious view up to ridicule and contempt.", " To allow evolution while avoiding creationism was unconstitutional, the suit claimed, because it advanced one particular sectarian view over another.", " The plaintiffs maintained that the school's evolutionary teaching constituted \"the establishment of a sectarian, atheistic religion\" and was an interference of their own rights to the free exercise of religion as guaranteed by the Establishment clause in the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.", " The case is one of a series of legal battles over the teaching of evolution in American public schools, and the first to be initiated by opponents of such teaching." ] ], [ "Town of Greece v. Galloway", [ "Town of Greece v.