Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (29 September 2011) The level of bank fees, including those which are charged for the use of payment cards is not regulated in EU legislation. Therefore, banks in Member States are free to set their level unless there is a national legal restriction in this matter. However, according to the Directive 2005/29/EC on Unfair Commercial Practices OJ L 149, 11.6.2005, p. 22-39. (the ‘UCPD’), consumers must be provided with complete, fair and understandable information on the offered service including on its price, before the transaction has taken place, allowing them to decide on whether to proceed with the purchase or not. The directive contains also specific safeguards concerning vulnerable consumers. Indeed its Article 5 provides that when a commercial practice is specifically aimed at a clearly identifiable group of consumers who are particularly vulnerable because of their mental or physical infirmity, age or credulity in a way which the trader can reasonably be expected to foresee, the impact of the commercial practice should be assessed from the perspective of the average member of that group. Furthermore, in the area of financial services Member States can adopt national legislation which provides for stricter requirements than those set out in the UCPD, to enhance the level of consumer protection, and to the extent that these are compatible with other Union legislation. In this sense, although no harmonised numerical limits are set, one can say that European consumers, including the most vulnerable ones, enjoy of a similar set of rights of protection against excessive fees imposed by banks across the EU: such rights need to be properly enforced at national and cross-border level, also thanks to the resort to the regulation on Consumer Protection Cooperation OJ L 364, 9.12.2004, p. 1. , which sets a clear procedural framework for cooperation amongst the competent national authorities. In this regard, the Commission would like to highlight that it is right now in the process of reviewing the overall application of the UCPD, including at cross-border level. It intends to issue in spring 2012 a Report which will amongst others include the results of a study on the application of the UCPD in the specific areas of financial services and immovable property, with a view to assess whether the requirements of the directive need to be made more stringent. More generally, the European Commission is well aware that the current structure and disclosure of bank fees hinder the price transparency of financial services, thus making it difficult for consumers to understand and compare offers, and for competition between financial services providers — notably banks — to play its role optimally. In August 2010, the European Commission invited the EU banking industry, represented by the European Banking Industry Committee (‘EBIC’) to ‘identify and implement appropriate solutions to ensure proper understanding and comparability of bank fees throughout the EU’. In response to the Commission's invitation, EBIC has committed to drafting self-regulatory principles on transparency and comparability of personal current account fees. Consumer representatives at EU level are consulted on this