same year as the European Parliament" and he looked forward to "the next major anniversary of this home of European democracy". European Commission President José Manuel Barroso It has been 50 years since Schuman brought together the three European communities in a new single assembly, but the political choice outlining a European representative democracy has been confirmed at every subsequent stage of the European construction, said Commission President José Manuel Barroso. The founding fathers foresaw that Europe needed lasting and strong institutions to enshrine the ever-deeper links among the Six. These institutions also had to be able to evolve, he continued, noting that Europe's "unique institutional triangle" has since proven its vitality by adapting to vast growth in the tasks entrusted to the Union and to the dynamics of enlargement. "We owe this success to the ingenuity and balance of our institutional construction, which does not follow the usual distribution of powers. We owe it also to the way we work, which respects both the Community method and subsidiarity", he added. Fifty years on, Europe, living in peace and spanning the continent, still needs strong institutions to tackle the challenge of our time: globalisation. Its experience of opening markets, accompanied by rules that reflect its values of freedom, solidarity and sustainable development, mean that "Europe alone has the dimensions, institutions and instruments necessary to shape globalisation", said the President. Mr Barroso saluted Parliament's contribution to the European project, in every field of daily life. In 50 years, Parliament has gained many powers and prerogatives. Some of this power derives from the peoples' votes. Some is formal, such as co-decision and budgetary powers. And some derives from political influence - Parliament has become a co-legislator and an influential partner in the institutional triangle, but has also developed close links with national parliaments, he said. Parliament's power has strengthened Europe as a whole. A strong European Parliament is an indispensable partner for other institutions, and in particular the European Commission, said the President, adding that the Lisbon Treaty, once ratified, will extend Parliament's powers, and also strengthen the Commission's dual democratic legitimacy through stronger links with Parliament and the Council. Mr Barroso concluded with a quote from Portuguese writer Agustina Bessa Luis: "At 15 years old you have a future; at 25, a problem; at 40, experience; but before 50 years old, you have no history". -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 ITEM-COVER-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080307BRI23279 ITEM-002-EN DOC XML V0//EN Institutions Estonian President Ilves on Europe's past and future 2008-03-17 - 10:43 A speech to the European Parliament on Tuesday (11 March) by Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves ranged across Europe's recent past as well as its prospects for the next ten years and beyond. Among the key issues facing the EU, Mr Ilves highlighted competitiveness, energy security and the Union's relations with its neighbours. But he also stressed the need for Europeans to remember "where we came from and how we got