WRITTEN QUESTION E-1738/05 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (18 May 2005) Subject: Growing likelihood that the new Betuwe railway line between the port of Rotterdam and the German hinterland cannot be used for freight transport 1. Is the Commission aware of the possibility that, when the time comes, the Betuwe line — the as yet uncompleted freight line between the port of Rotterdam and the German hinterland via the existing border crossing between Zevenaar (NL) and Emmerich (D) — will not be used, or will hardly be used, because the businesses which might have been interested in it consider the scale of charges exorbitant (it will be eight times as expensive to send ore or coal by rail), while lower charges would result in excessive losses on the necessary maintenance of the line? 2. Is the Commission aware that these unfavourable expectations are rendered more plausible by the fact that, at the time when it was decided to build the line, it was assumed that measures would be taken to severely restrict the quantities of goods carried by road between the port of Rotterdam and Germany (report of the Hermans Commission), but these measures have never been implemented, so that when the Betuwe line is completed this will result in a further increase in the already large transport capacity between Rotterdam and the Ruhr, comprising, inter alia , the A15 motorway and the River Waal? 3. Is the Commission aware that grave doubts have arisen in the Netherlands as to whether the connecting third track on the Emmerich-Oberhausen line in Germany, as provided for in the Warnemünde Agreement, will be completed in time (before 2010), so that in practice it will not for some time be possible to carry large quantities of goods between the two countries, even should the demand arise? 4. Does the Commission regard the anticipated problems with the operation of the Betuwe line as a needless waste of money, part of which has been contributed by the EU? Is it resigned to this situation, or does it consider it necessary to respond with measures to reduce road haulage and to speedily supplement Germany's rail network? Source: Rotterdams Dagblad , 22 April 2005.