Europe is the continent of tolerance". This lesson had taken a long time to learn and the worst period of "hatred, devastation and destruction" lay not so far in the past but this was all the more reason for Europe to promote the virtue of tolerance at home and abroad. The Chancellor referred to Lessing's story Nathan the Wise, a key text of the German Enlightenment which urges understanding between Christianity, Islam and Judaism. She, as a Christian, felt the finest moment in the play was when, seeking to overcome the gulf created by their differing beliefs, the Muslim simply says to the Jew "Be my friend". This "has always been and remains the great aim of European integration". The motto of her country's EU presidency was "Succeeding together" and indeed, to deal with the challenges of the 21st century, she believed "Europe can only succeed together". Moving on to her government's programme for its six months in office, Mrs Merkel spoke first of the urgent need for new ground rules to enable the EU to function properly. "I undertake to produce a roadmap by the end of the German presidency to enable the constitutional process to move towards completion", she said. This must be achieved by the next European Parliament elections in 2009. "Failure would be a historic let-down". On external policy, priorities would include Kosovo, the Middle East, Iran's nuclear programme, Afghanistan, the European Neighbourhood Policy, the Doha Round, the EU-US summit and a new partnership agreement with Russia. The EU also needed to be a trailblazer on climate change. And an EU-Africa summit was needed "to redefine our relations with Africa". To do all this, it was essential to have a European foreign minister, and "that is reason enough for a constitutional treaty". On internal policies, Mrs Merkel emphasised growth and jobs, including the Lisbon strategy. In connection with "better regulation", she proposed a "discontinuity principle", whereby any legislation not passed by the end of the European Parliament's term of office should lapse. "A cut-off point of this kind would lend even greater importance to the European Parliament elections", she argued and called on MEPs to support the idea. The Chancellor underlined the value of the triple presidency programme which has been devised by Germany, Portugal and Slovenia to cover the coming 18-month period, as a means of giving much-needed continuity to the EU's business. This led her to stress once again the importance of constitutional reform as a means of enabling the EU "to act in concert". She said an American academic, Richard Florida, had identified three ingredients as crucial to successful development in various parts of the world. These were "technology, talent and -tolerance!" "What good news for Europe!", said Mrs Merkel. Indeed, she added "Europe thrives on innovation, on scientific, technical, economic and social progress" and "Europe thrives on curiosity". Ultimately, "Europe without its outstanding power of innovation would not be the Europe that it is today". With a final quotation from the German writer Peter Prange, Mrs Merkel said "Everything we Europeans have ever achieved,