marine ecosystems, having recently discussed integrated coastal management in Europe and cooperation in the event of accidental or deliberate marine pollution. Even though its opinion focuses on issues linked to the CFP, there are several sources of pollution which endanger the balance of the aquatic environment apart from fishing. The search for a solution must involve all factors. Indicators play a decisive role in future decision-making. Detailed knowledge must be available on the current state of stocks, biological diversity and levels of marine pollution. Many of the most profitable fish stocks found in Community waters are subject to over-fishing and have now fallen below the biological safety threshold. The result is an as yet little studied imbalance in the marine food chain. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy calls on the Committee on the Fisheries, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. Points out that the appropriate legal basis for environmental policy is Article 175 and that specific legislation on the protection of the marine environment stemming from the review of the common fisheries policy must take account of that fact; 2. Welcomes the analysis and the guidelines contained in the Commission communication and instructs the Commission to put forward specific proposals for a sectoral integration strategy to be incorporated into the current review of the CFP; 3. Considers that, if environmental-protection requirements are to be properly integrated into the CFP, the principles of that policy must include the Community environment policy principles set out in Article 174(2) of the Treaty; 4. Reaffirms its determination to participate in the forthcoming review of the CFP with an approach based on the balance of the marine ecosystem, switching from a traditional resource management approach to an approach focusing on the ecosystem, including in relation to the adoption of TACs; 5. Calls on the Commission to carry out a thorough study on the environmental impact of aquaculture and industrial fishing and calls for these two sectors to be included in the review of the CFP - they are barely mentioned in the current Green Paper on the future of the CAP; 6. Points out that the current shortage of resources makes it unjustifiable that one-third of Community fish catches should be destroyed as they are processed into fishmeal and fish oil and is concerned, from the point of view of food safety, at the high levels of pollution caused by dioxins in the areas where most of those fish are caught - fish which are mainly used as feed in aquaculture farms, which means that the dioxins enter the food chain; 7. Calls on the Commission to present key indicators which will make it possible to evaluate the impact on marine ecosystems of imbalances caused by fishing activity, either owing to preferential catches of certain species or to the various types of gear used; 8. Calls on the Commission to present the conclusions of studies into the harm caused by the various types of gear to fish, marine mammals and birds