the report of the Commission's Internal Audit Service on the activities of the EAR, in line with the request in the European Parliament's 2002 discharge of the Agency; Legality and regularity of the underlying transactions 21. Notes the ECA's call for a reduction in the number of authorising officers (56 by the end of 2003) and recognises the efforts by the Agency, which limited this number by February 2004 to only 20 delegations and sub-delegations, which should allow a proper financial implementation while ensuring an efficient implementation of the actions planned at local level; 22. Welcomes the participation of the Agency's Director in the hearing in the context of the Discharge procedure 2003 which led to a number of clarifications on the level of its achievements in the implementation of its mandate; expects that the Agency will undertake all the necessary actions to achieve fully sound financial management; 23. Recognises the fact that the presence of the EAR's Director before the Committee on Budgetary Control, and on a later occasion before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has been helpful in clarifying certain issues and providing explanations for certain situations which had been of genuine concern to the European Parliament, in particular, the question of the allocation of tasks between the Commission's "deconcentrated" delegations in the region and the EAR's operational centres; General points addressed to the Commission and the Agencies 24. Recalls its position that while it supported the Commission's efforts to establish a limited number of models, at least for future "regulatory" agencies, it took the view that the structure of current and future agencies merited in-depth consideration at inter-institutional level; also stresses that before the Commission defines the framework conditions for the use of regulatory agencies an inter-institutional agreement should spell out common guidelines; this should happen before setting up a harmonised framework for the structure of the agencies; 25. Notes the Commission's position As set out in Annex 1 of the Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament "Building our common future, Policy challenges and Budgetary means of the Enlarged Union 2007-2013", ( COM(2004)0101 , p. 38). with regard to delegating responsibility for the execution of tasks to bodies, including agencies, other than the Commission's core administration; takes the view that this does not answer Parliament's call for in-depth consideration at inter-institutional level of the structure of existing agencies; therefore invites the Commission to provide clarification on this point and on the future overall inter-institutional agreement related to the new arrangements to be set up within or in parallel with the Financial Perspective See Annex to the Commission's report on the follow-up to 2002 Discharges ( COM(2004)0648 , p. 108). ; 26. Invites the Commission to organise and perform in the medium term, e.g. on a standard three-year cycle, a cross-cutting analysis of the evaluations carried out on individual Agencies in order to a) reach conclusions with regard to the coherence of Agency activity with EU policies in general and as regards the synergies existing or to be developed between the agencies and Commission departments