WRITTEN QUESTION E-4754/09 by Michail Tremopoulos (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (7 October 2009) Subject: Pollution of the Gulf of Euboea in Greece by the mining company LARKO The main plants of the mining company LARKO are based in Larymna (Fthiotida) in Greece. Waste from processing the minerals is discharged into the Gulf of Euboea. According to research carried out by the Greek Marine Research Centre, this industry pollutes the Gulf with approximately one million tonnes annually of slag containing toxic heavy metals, such as nickel, chromium, cadmium and mercury. According to research by Greenpeace, local fish stocks contain such high levels of toxic heavy metals, that the long term consumption of these fish poses a serious threat to public health. Despite complaints by citizens' organisations and political bodies, the Greek government has provocatively failed to provide a solution and to protect the health of local people and the fragile marine environment of the region. On the contrary, it is encouraging the irresponsible behaviour of this company which already has an exceptionally poor record as regards environmental and labour safety. An examination of all the facts of the case indicates that this is a violation both of the provisions of national environmental legislation and of Directive 2000/60/EC OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1. , the EU Water Framework Directive, Directive 76/464/EEC OJ L 129, 18.5.1976, p. 23. on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the Community, and Directive 91/689/EEC OJ L 377, 31.12.1991, p. 20. on hazardous waste. In view of the above, will the Commission say: 1. Is it aware of, or has it received any complaints about, the pollution of the Gulf of Euboea by the LARKO plant? If so what actions has it taken or does it intend to take? 2. Has it been informed by the Greek government about the state of coastal waters in the northern part of the Gulf of Euboea, within the framework of Directive 2000/60/EC or any other Community legislation or programme? If so what is the content of this notification and how does it evaluate the relevant data? 3. Has it drawn up or approved any financial programme intended to protect the coastal waters of Greece from industrial pollution? What are the conditions for approving and implementing such a programme?