" anyone may file a complaint with the Commission free of charge against a Member State about any measure (law, regulation or administrative action) or practice by a Member State which they consider incompatible with a provision or principle of Community law ". Any correspondence which is likely to be investigated as a complaint is recorded in a central registry of complaints kept by the Secretariat-General of the Commission. After investigating the complaint, Commission officials may ask the College of Commissioners either to initiate infringement proceedings against the Member State in question under Article 226 of the Treaty, or to close the case. The Commission decides on the matter at its discretion. In its annual reports on monitoring the application of Community law, the Commission has regularly acknowledged the vital role played by the complainant in detecting infringements of Community law. For instance, in 2005, complaints accounted for around 43.5% of the total infringements detected. 23rd Annual report from the Commission on monitoring the application of Community law (2005); COM(2006) 416 final. While the Commission may decide to initiate infringement proceedings against a Member State, it cannot award compensation to complainants. However, the launch of infringement proceedings may facilitate matters for a claimant to substantiate claims for damages under Francovich . This point is further discussed below. In an internal Commission note dated 19 March 2004, which the Commission provided as part of WE-CONF 11 it is stated that " in total we have received 7 complaints from individual citizens, 5 letters from MEPs and two EP written questions [concerning Equitable Life] ". In H1, Mr TERTÁK quoted from the Commissioner's reply to a letter from Mr Perry, MEP: " In normal circumstances, where an aggrieved party considers that national supervisory authorities have not properly respected the requirements of the relevant EC directives, redress may be sought by application to national courts. Furthermore, in such cases, national courts also have the power to award damages to aggrieved parties, something the Commission cannot do. ... At the present time, the Commission is not aware of any infringement of the EU insurance directives in connection with Equitable Life, but it will review the position in the light of the results of the Penrose Inquiry, if necessary ". Similarly, according to WE-CONF 11, the Commission's initial response to the complaints by citizens had been " that we would await the outcome of the independent report ... by Lord Penrose before determining what action, if any, should be taken ". By the time the Penrose report had been published, the Commission stressed (by analogy with the position it expressed in response to the request for information by the Petitions Committee) to complainants that the events complained about related to a prior regulatory and supervisory regime which has since been replaced by the UK (WE-CONF 11). In WE 1 Pages 7-9. , the Commission explained its position as follows: " The Commission is not in a position to take a definitive view on whether there might have been an infringement in the practical application of the directive