Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (17 January 2007) The Honourable Member is referring in his questions 1, 2, 4, 5 and 7 to points of discussion that have been extensively explored in the Parliament during the legislative process leading to the adoption of the social package for road transport under the conciliation procedures. The list of all the possible national exemptions in Article 13 has been updated in Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 Regulation (EC) No 561/2006 of the Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the harmonisation of certain social legislation relating to road transport and amending Council Regulations (EEC) No 3821/85 and (EC) No 2135/98 and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85, OJ L 102, 11.4.2006. . During the discussions in the Parliament and the Council this change received strong support. Vehicles and vehicle combinations exceeding 3500 kg have been subject to tachograph use since 1985 and this has not been changed in Regulation (EC) No 561/2006. However, also under Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 561/2006, Member States keep the possibility to grant an exception for the carriage of materials, equipment or machinery for the driver’s use in the course of his/her work, limited to operations where the vehicle is used within a radius of 50 kilometres from the base of the undertaking, corresponding exactly to the legal provisions since 1985. For the sake of road safety, adequate social conditions and fair competition, no further exceptions from the social rules are provided for. The only change that the Parliament and Council agreed upon in this respect was the stipulation in Article 13 that this exception can be granted only if the maximum permissible mass of the vehicle or vehicle combination used is not more than 7.5 tonnes as vehicle combinations for such transport typically does not exceed this maximum weight. Regardless whether the vehicles are used for transporting paints and brushes or for materials, equipment or machinery that is used by agricultural, horticultural, forestry, farming or fishery undertakings, they would continue to fall under possible exemptions under Article 13 of the regulation. It is up to the national authorities to determine that granting such an exception does not negatively affect fair competition, working conditions and road safety. National authorities may also prescribe under which conditions such an exception, if granted, may be exercised. The Commission confirms that it will monitor the implementation of the regulation in the Member States. Should the need arise to further clarify certain provisions, in the light of experience, the Commission will of course be open to consider the most appropriate way to do it. The Commission has received a number of similar letters from various Dutch sources and an international association of painting and decorating firms, to which it has replied.