Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (26 January 2011) Tenders issued by national Governments which receive EU aid in the form of budget support are not required to specify that such funding comes from EDF budget support. The Commission is aware that one ACP country did incorrectly issue a tender specifying EU Budget Support and the relevant Delegation has pointed this error out to the authorities. The Commission is not in any way involved in the award or management of the contract awarded under this tender. In the event that payments are not made by the contracting authority, the contractor should pursue his rights under the relevant contractual provisions. The EU provides budget support only after checking that the country is committed to a poverty reduction/national development strategy, or a sector strategy. Before making payments, the Commission uses a combination of benchmarks and indicators to assess the progress that the Government has made in implementing these strategies. For example, for a programme that aims at improving road infrastructure, the Commission might assess the enactment of any necessary legislation, or measure progress against specific road condition indicators. The management and supervision of budget support in this way provides both a sound platform for dialogue with partner countries whilst at the same time limiting the risks to the EU‑funded programmes. Funds provided under budget support are paid directly into the beneficiary country's treasury accounts, and are used in accordance with the public financial management system and domestic accountability mechanisms of the partner country. They are not usually earmarked or targeted to specific budget lines or projects. The practice of not earmarking is considered as the best practice by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Court of Auditors. Earmarking is in any case pointless because of the fungibility of funds; in normal cases (in which the revenues are well forecast and expenditures in line with the expected revenues), the execution of the Budget will proceed as planned and targeting specific expenditures with funds provided through Budgetary Support will not add anything to the planned budget execution. On the contrary, the targeting of those expenditures will represent an additional burden to the partner Government and the donor. It could even create additional problems in that governments might delay the execution of the targeted budget lines until donor funds arrive, even if the respective budget line covers priority expenditures (e.g. goods and services in the health or education sector).