and its participation as an observer at the last G-7 meeting, – having regard to the Indo-US Parliamentary Forum held at the headquarters of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry in New Delhi in March 2005, – having regard to the visit to the region by the US Secretary of State, Condoleeza Rice, in March 2005 and to that of the Prime Minister of China, Wen Jiabao, to Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and India in April, – having regard to the WTO Doha Declaration on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) and Public Health adopted on 14 November 2001, – having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the opinions of the Committee on Development and the Committee on International Trade ( A6-0256/2005 ), A. whereas the EU and India constitute the biggest democracies in the world, and their shared commitment to democracy, pluralism, the rule of law and multilateralism in international relations contributes to global peace and stability, B. whereas India and the EU share a common vision in which trade, investment and free competition constitute key factors for economic development, and whereas both recognise that to promote such development, socio-economic cohesion, environmental protection and consumer rights should be ensured, C. whereas the EU is the biggest trading partner and the biggest source of foreign direct investment in India, D. whereas the Congress Party, which won the elections in May 2004, received its electoral support from the rural classes, which had considered themselves to be excluded from the benefits deriving from the technological explosion in India, E. whereas there is enormous linguistic, social and religious diversity in India, a country of paradoxes with a population of 1.069 billion people, an open society facing the challenge of freeing 370 million people from poverty, a world leader in the field of information technology but a country in which 550 million live off agriculture, F. whereas 34.7% of India's population are living below the poverty line, a quarter of these in urban areas; whereas, therefore, EU poverty eradication programmes in India must continue in order to help achieve the Millennium Development Goals, G. whereas both the European Union and India are democratic and open societies, H. whereas India has the second highest Muslim population in the world after Indonesia and whereas the European Union is home to several million people of that religion and culture, I. whereas the EU and India have the potential to build a privileged relationship in international relations, but whereas there is in India a lack of awareness of the EU and its democratic system; highlighting the potential of India as a partner of the EU in helping to encourage new and young democracies, J. whereas India and Pakistan have engaged in a continuous dialogue since the beginning of 2004 in order to put an end to some of the disputes facing them, K. whereas, however, a new crisis may be brewing in Kashmir, and in the Indian states of Punjab