down a common charging scheme for air navigation services OJ L 341, 7.12.2006, p. 3. and Council Directive 96/67/EC of 15 October 1996 on access to the groundhandling market at Community airports OJ L 272, 25.10.1996, p. 36. , respectively. (3) It is vital for airport users to obtain from the body setting or applying the charges , on a regular basis, information on how and on what basis aviation security charges are calculated. This information will provide airport users with an insight into the costs incurred by providing security services such as those referred to in Regulation (EC) No 300/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2008 on common rules in the field of civil aviation security OJ L 97, 9.4.2008, p. 72. and its implementing rules, the productivity of related investments and any grants and subsidies allocated by the authorities for security purposes . To allow the competent body setting or applying the charges to properly assess the requirements with regard to its future investments, ▌airport users should be required to share all their operational forecasts, developments projects and specific demands and wishes with the competent body on a timely basis. (4) As the methods for funding or establishing and levying the amounts due for the coverage of security costs differ across the Union, the harmonisation of the basis for charging security costs at Union airports where the costs of security are reflected in the security charges is necessary. At these airports the charge should be related to the cost for providing security, taking into account any public funding of security costs , with a view to avoiding any profit and to providing suitable and cost-effective security services and facilities at the airports concerned . (5) It is important to establish transparency with regard to the use of national security measures more stringent than the common basic standards established in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 300/2008. (6) In every Member State in which security charges are levied at airports an independent supervisory authority ▌should ensure the proper and effective application of this Directive. The authority should be in possession of all the necessary resources in terms of staffing, expertise and the financial resources for the performance of its tasks. (7) Member States should have the possibility of applying a common charging system to cover an airport network or other groups of airports including those serving the same city or conurbation. (8) When calculating security charges in respect of cost-relatedness, objective criteria should be used as a basis, such as those laid down in the relevant International Civil Aviation Organization documents, which advocate the use of the number of passengers or aircraft maximum take-off weight or a combination of these. (9) Since the objectives of the action taken cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, as security charges systems cannot be put in place at national level in a uniform manner throughout the Union and can therefore, by reason of the scale and effects of the action, be better achieved at Union level, the Union