in Europe. The full and effective exploitation of the ITER device, once it is built, will require a strong commitment by an adequate number of skilled European scientists and engineers as well as an high level knowledge of the Physics behind; thus the accompanying programme must be adequately supported, with an earmarked appropriation, out of the overall budget on Fusion. Continuity with the research activities in FP6 requires the accompanying programme, carried out by the Associations, be financed with not less than 900 m€. Scientific and Technological Objectives Fusion Energy Research . The rapporteur believes that the EU should exploit to the highest degree the potential of fusion to make a major contribution to the realization of a sustainable and secure energy supply and that a “fast track” to fusion energy should be followed in order to shorten as much as possible the distance to an actual Fusion Power Plant. The activities foreseen in the Commission proposal appear adequate for this purpose. Referring to the need for a full and effective exploitation of the ITER device, already mentioned above, and -as a consequence- for a bold accompanying programme, the rapporteur welcomes the proposal for R&D activities on all the magnetic confinement toroidal devices, already existing or under construction in all Member States (which all together make the accompanying programme). The exploitation of such devices, during the construction of ITER (which will last one decade), will increase the knowledge in a number of ITER-relevant topics and will prepare a new generation of European fusion scientists that will effectively work on ITER. Now that ITER will actually be built in France, we have also to take into account how important engineering activities linked with this project are for many industrial sectors in Europe. Numerous technological spin-offs will reinforce the technological development and reaffirm the leadership of European Industry in a number of key sectors. Nuclear Fission and Radiation Protection . Due to the substantial contribution of nuclear power to electricity generation in the EU and the increasingly important property of nuclear power not to emit CO 2 , the rapporteur believes that a renewed momentum should be given to R&D activities in this sector, to develop new technologies aiming at intrinsic safety and higher efficiency, i.e. less waste production. He also welcomes the proposal for R&D activities in the field of Management of Radioactive Waste and of safety of Reactor Systems. These two fields cover the content of the two Commission proposals for directives on Safety of Nuclear Installations and Nuclear Waste Management, about which the ITRE Committee has expressed in the recent past its position, asking for an adequate funding for research in both areas. Concerning the proposal for R&D activities on Radiation Protection, the rapporteur agrees that it can provide the scientific knowledge for a reliable and socially acceptable system of protection. However he believes that more details should be given concerning the objective “to minimize the threat posed by nuclear and radiological terrorism and mitigate its impact”. Nuclear Activities of the JRC . All the activities foreseen for the JRC are