located shall enforce the obligations of this provision and any implementing measures adopted under paragraph 5 in respect of the services provided by a branch to its clients. Article 21 Obligations of investment firms when employing tied agents 1.. Member States shall ensure that an investment firm may employ tied agents in particular for the purposes of promoting the services of the investment firm, soliciting business or collecting orders from clients or potential clients and transmitting these to that investment firm, and providing advice in respect of financial instruments or services offered by that investment firm and of all activities necessarily linked to it . 2. Member States shall require an investment firm employing a tied agent to remain fully and unconditionally responsible for any action or omission on the part of the tied agent when acting on behalf of the firm. Should the investment firm be subject to the own funds requirement, the amount of own funds required must be geared to the actual liability risk, having regard to existing insurance cover. Member States shall require the investment firm to ensure that a tied agent , prior to mediating a particular product, discloses immediately to any client or potential client the capacity in which he agent is acting and the firm which he is representing. 3. Member States shall ensure that investment firms monitor the activities of their tied agents and adopt measures and procedures so as to ensure that they operate, on a continuous basis, in compliance with this Directive. 4. Each Member State shall ensure that tied agents which act or wish to act on its territory are entered in a public register which is established and maintained under the responsibility of the competent authority. The competent authority shall ensure that tied agents are only admitted to the public register if it has been established that they are of sufficiently good repute and that they possess appropriate general, commercial and professional knowledge so as to be able to communicate accurately all relevant information regarding the proposed service to the client or potential client. The existence of appropriate general, commercial and professional knowledge may be determined by way of a grandfathering clause in terms of existing professional experience or appropriate training or further training measures. The register shall be updated on a regular basis. It shall be publicly available for consultation. 5. Member States shall ensure that investment firms employ only tied agents entered in the public registers referred to in paragraph 4. 6. Member States may allow the competent authority to delegate the establishment and maintenance of the public register pursuant to paragraph 4 and the tasks of monitoring compliance of tied agents with the requirements of paragraph 4 to a body meeting the conditions laid down in Article 46(2). 7. The Member States shall ensure that the rights and obligations of tied agents are geared to the requirements of Directive 2002/92/EC and that harmonisation is carried out accordingly. Article 22 Transactions executed with eligible counterparties 1. The Member States shall ensure that investment firms authorised to execute orders