subsidiaries in different Member States, or – a parent company registered in another Member State . Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment An SPE shall have its registered office and its central administration or principal place of business in the Community. An SPE shall have its registered office and its central administration or principal place of business in the Community. An SPE shall not be under any obligation to have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. An SPE shall not be under any obligation to have its central administration or principal place of business in the Member State in which it has its registered office. If the central administration or principal place of business is located in a Member State other than that in which it has its registered office, the SPE shall lodge in the register of the Member State where the central administration or principal place of business is located , the particulars referred to in Article 10(2)(a), (b) and (c). The information recorded in the register shall be deemed to be accurate. The lodging of documents in a European central register fulfil l the requirements for lodging documents in accordance with the second paragraph . Amendment 19 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The registered office shall be the address at which all legal documents relating to the SPE are to be served. Amendment 20 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. An SPE shall have articles of association that cover at least the matters set out in this Regulation, as provided for in Annex I. 1. An SPE shall have articles of association that cover at least the matters set out in this Regulation, as provided for in Annex I. 2. The articles of association of a SPE shall be in writing and signed by every founding shareholder. 2. The articles of association of a SPE shall be in writing and signed by every founding shareholder. Further formalities may be prescribed by applicable national law, unless the SPE uses official model articles of association that are published by the Commission in the Official Journal . 3. The articles of association and any amendments thereto may be relied upon as follows: 3. The articles of association and any amendments thereto may be relied upon as follows: (a) in relation to the shareholders and the management body of the SPE and its supervisory body, if any, from the date on which they are signed or, in the case of amendments, adopted; (a) in relation to the shareholders and the executive management body of the SPE and its supervisory body, if any, from the date on which they are signed or, in the case of amendments, adopted; (b) in relation to third parties, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable national law implementing paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of Article 3 of