Answer given by Mr Mandelson on behalf of the Commission (28 June 2007) The current review on trade defence instruments (TDI) does not put these instruments or their use into question. The purpose of this exercise is not to either weaken or strengthen the current TDI rules but to make them clearer, more transparent and more consistent. The Green Paper acknowledges repeatedly the need to counter unfair competition by third country operators. This readiness to tackle unfair competition applies to all sectors for which TDI can be used, including the textile and clothing industry. The importance the Commission attaches to protecting the textile and clothing industry against unfairly traded textile imports is also evidenced by the use of TDI in the past and the investigations which are currently ongoing (e.g. the case dealing with apparel filament fabrics (certain finished polyester)). Furthermore, it goes without saying that, if a representative share of the textile and clothing industry decide to introduce an Anti-Dumping or Anti-Subsidy complaint, the Commission will analyse the facts and take the appropriate measures if the relevant legal criteria are fulfilled. Also in this respect, the textile and clothing industry is in the same position as any other EU industry. The Commission is aware of the challenges the textiles and clothing sector has been faced with and it closely monitors the developments in the sector in collaboration with Euratex, the European Apparel and Textile Organisation. The Commission wishes to draw attention to the communication adopted on 13 October 2004, entitled ‘Textiles and Clothing after 2005 — Recommendations of the High Level Group for textiles and clothing’ COM(2004)668 final. , where the Commission built on the work carried out by the High Level Group on textiles and clothing and proposed a set of concrete actions to be taken at regional, national and EU levels to enhance the competitiveness of the European textile industry in a fair, post-quota environment. Although the High Level Group on textiles and clothing concluded its work in September 2006, the Commission carries on implementating recommendations of the Group for EU actions as set out in the last Group’s report issued in 2006. The Commission grants its full support to the social partners of the textile sector who meet regularly in the European sectoral social dialogue committee on textiles and clothing. Restructuring in the textiles industry and adaptation to change are essential elements of the social partner's work programme and the Commission's Directorate-General responsible for Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, recently provided financing for a restructuring project implemented by the European social partners. Furthermore, the European Social Fund provides substantial possibilities for funding of programmes related to adaptability of workers and enterprises and other aspects related to industry restructuring and employment at national level, in accordance with the national strategic reference framework and the operational programmes of each Member State. Finally, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is a new instrument which provides support to workers made redundant as a result of serious economic disruption, notably in the event of substantial increase of imports into the EU, or rapid