Answer given by Ms Damanaki on behalf of the Commission (15 February 2011) According to Council Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006 of 21 December 2006 concerning management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the Mediterranean Sea (the ‘Mediterranean Regulation’) OJ L 409, 30.12.2006. ,which as of 1 June 2010 is fully in force, boats using seines exploiting transparent goby (rossetto), Mediterranean sand eel (cicerello) and fries of sardine (bianchetto) may be granted specific derogations to the general provisions of the regulation, based on a number of conditions and strict criteria. The adoption of a management plan by the national authorities and its prior notification to the Commission is a precondition to benefitting from the abovementioned derogations. Fulfillment by Member States of this precondition was expected by the end of 2007. Unfortunately, this deadline was not met. A first set of management plans was presented by Italy late March 2010 and, following evaluation by the Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries (STECF), it was considered not to fulfil the requirements. A revised version was submitted in October 2010. The STECF released a new opinion on 24 November 2010 which indicated some rather positive elements regarding the way the authorities propose to regulate these fisheries. Based on these elements, the Commission is finalising its science-based assessment. The Commission would like to underline that derogations will only be granted as far as all conditions set out in the regulation are fulfilled. The Commission is well aware of the economic and social impact of these fishing activities in Italy and is committed to ensuring that delays are minimised in the decision-making process, irrespective of the final decision that will be taken. The Commission has also reminded Member States several times of the need to ensure that requests for derogations are submitted in a timely manner, especially since Member States have not always fully complied with the original timetable set by the regulation for the adoption of management plans.