the Equitable as a box of Smarties. The teacher promises a group of children four each. But the tube is smaller than the teacher thought and, when the sweets are shared between the whole class, there are only enough for three each. The disappointed group demands the promise be kept. The only way to get the extra Smarties is by grabbing them from their classmates. After a scrap, nothing remains but mushy chocolate and broken icing." (WE46) 3b) The Compromise terms in detail In practice, the compromise terms meant that: - 70.000 GAR individual policyholders would get an increase of 17,5% in their policy value , in exchange for giving up their rights to a guaranteed annuity rate - 415.000 non-GAR individual policyholders would get an increase of 2,5% in their policy value , in exchange for giving up their right to sue Equitable Life for mis-selling. In WE29 Professor David BLAKE claimed that " the compromise scheme proposal documentation of December 2001 (and the 2001 interim accounts) indicated to policyholders that the with-profits fund would face an uncertain future only if policyholders failed to vote for the compromise scheme proposal that removed the problem with guaranteed annuities (GARs). These documents gave no indication that, even if the CSP was approved, the with-profits fund would be close to technical insolvency." He added as a policy recommendation: " in future, investors should only be permitted to participate in the same pooled investment fund if they all get the same expected (or ex ante) return." WE29, para.5 and 7. Referring to the content of the Compromise Scheme proposition, WE29 reported that the EL board had argued that "four principles underpinned its proposed solution. It must be fair to all with-profits policyholder groups, easily understandable and implementable, as well as acceptable to the High Court." The Board claimed that the Scheme satisfied these principles in respect of GAR policyholders since it involved "fair value compensation to GAR policyholders based on a ‘realistic estimate’ of the value of their legal rights given up ..., it apportions the compensation to different GAR policyholders in accordance with their rights; it reduces that compensation by the value of any possible claim for compensation given up by the non-GAR policyholders; the compensation takes the form of a proportionate increase in GAR policyholders’ policy values in both guaranteed and non-guaranteed form." see WE29, annex A.17-18. In the event that the Compromise Scheme were not approved at the policyholders' vote, the EL had board considered the following options see WE29, annex A.24-25. : 1. Maintain the current position, matching GAR liabilities with hedging instruments 2. Entering bilateral agreements with policyholders 3. Apply to the court for a ‘reduction of contracts’ (Section 58 of ICA 1982) 4. Make suitable amendments to GAR policies For instance a 'Schedule 2C transfer' under ICA 1982 or a 'Section 112 transfer' of the with-profits business to a third party under FSMA 2000 " (WE29). 5. Liquidate ELAS. The Board decided not to recommend any particular one of these options, as it argued that each of them had