at a disadvantage by discriminatory restrictions and that the solution sought should be workable, automatic and economically viable, G. whereas the deadline was not met, primarily owing to the insistence of some pharmaceutical companies and the United States government that there needed to be further restrictive definitions of public health crises, together with a specified list of diseases to which the provisions applied, H. whereas the Commission has proposed that the advice of the World Health Organisation could be sought in the event of a dispute, but that such advice would be non‑binding, I. whereas the TRIPs Council is to reconsider the matter at its forthcoming session, 1. Strongly condemns the position taken by the United States, motivated by the interests of some pharmaceutical companies, in blocking the adoption by the TRIPs WTO Council of an expeditious solution to the problem of access to medicine for developing countries before the end of 2002, as agreed in Doha; 2. Asks the Commission and the Members States to assume a stronger position in the TRIPs WTO negotiations in order to ensure that priority is always given to public health and not to commercial considerations, patents and the profits of pharmaceutical companies; 3. Considers that the language of the Doha Declaration is clear and unambiguous and the question of what does or does not constitute grounds for the issue of compulsory licences does not require further interpretation, either by means of an ‘approved list’ or of any external approval mechanism. Any allegations of abuse of the provisions of TRIPs should be dealt with through the relevant disputes procedure; 4. Insists that the Commission must therefore respect the clarifications provided in the Doha Declaration and reject any position that would result in limitations regarding the scope of diseases or the countries that could make use of an effective solution to the problem defined in paragraph 6; 5. Believes that the ongoing negotiations in the WTO on a solution to the problem of paragraph 6 of the Doha Declaration should aim at placing WTO members without sufficient manufacturing capacity in the same position as WTO members who do have manufacturing capacity; 6. Calls on the Commission to find an equitable solution to the problem stated in paragraph 6 of the Doha Declaration, and insists that this should not result in discrimination between WTO members with differing capacities to respond to public health crises; 7. Insists that neither the countries with insufficient manufacturing capacities nor the countries that will utilise the mechanism to produce for export should be subject to any conditions, notification procedures or any other procedural mechanism more onerous than the ones already provided for under WTO rules; 8. Recognises that the WTO is not the appropriate body to arbitrate or make rules on questions of public health or access to essential medicines and that, in this regard, the TRIPs Agreement has to be subservient to other values and authorities, as is implicit in the Doha Declaration; 9. Agrees with the Commission that the World Health Organisation could play an important role, but warns that the