or from the cancelled commitment appropriations from the previous two years, excluding those related to Heading 1b. The appropriate amounts are entered into the budget as a provision as soon as the sufficient margins and / or cancelled commitments have been identified. As concerns the procedure, in order to activate the Fund the Commission, in case of a positive assessment of an application, presents to the budgetary authority a proposal for mobilisation of the Fund and, at the same time, a corresponding request for transfer. In parallel, a trialogue could be organised in order to find an agreement on the use of the Fund and the amounts required. The trialogue can take a simplified form. II. State of play: Commission's proposal On 6 May 2010 the Commission has adopted three new proposals for a decision on the mobilisation of the EGF in favour of Ireland and Spain in order to support the reintegration in the labour market of workers made redundant due to the global financial and economic crisis. The current proposal concerns the Ireland application following redundancies occurred in Waterford Crystal and three of its suppliers. This is the seventh application to be examined under the budget 2010. It foresees the mobilisation of the EGF for a global amount of EUR 2.570.853, in order to cover the assistance to 653 workers made redundant in one enterprise: Waterford Crystal and three of its suppliers: Thomas Fennell Engineering Ltd, RPS Engineering Services and Abbey Electric situated in the NUTS III South-East region, of which 598 are targeted for assistance form the EGF. This application, case EGF/2009/012 IE/Waterford Crystal, was submitted to the Commission on 7 August 2009. The application was based on the intervention criterion of Art. 2 (a) of the EGF Regulation which requires at least 500 redundancies over a four-month period in an enterprise in a Member State, including workers made redundant in its suppliers or downstream producers and was submitted within the deadline of 10 weeks (Art. 5 of the Regulation). Commission's assessment was based on the evaluation of the link between the redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial crisis, the unforeseen nature of the concerned redundancies, demonstration of number of redundancies and compliance with the criteria of Article 2, explanation of the unforeseen nature of those redundancies, identification of dismissing enterprises and workers targeted for assistance, the territory concerned and its authorities and stakeholders, the impact for the redundancies as regards the local, regional or national employment, co-ordinated package of personalised services to be funded, including its compatibility with actions funded by the Structural Funds, dates on which the personalised services to affected workers were started or planned to start, procedures for consulting the social partners, management and control systems. In accordance with Commission's assessment, the application fulfils the eligibility criteria set up by the EGF Regulation and recommends to the Budget Authority to approve the applications. In order to mobilise the Fund, the Commission has submitted to the Budget Authority a transfer request (DEC 09/2010) for a global amount of EUR 2.570.853