which has still to welcome two Eastern countries, Bulgaria and Romania, expected for January 2007. Furthermore, huge advances in technology took place, which are currently reshaping the global marketplace. The world wide web, only just over a decade old with the introduction of the browser system in 1995, has fundamentally not only altered the way in which people work and do business, but also has brought in over 2 billion consumers into the global market. As a result, barriers are being flattened and competition is more focussed and vigorous for European countries than at any other time in the history of the EU. 4. Globalisation is no new phenomenon, but is a fact of life. As recently described by a leading European industrialist, 'it is the phenomenon of the gradual and worldwide elimination of physical, political, societal, cultural , linguistic and other borders, which separate economic regions, cultural or scientific communities, political regimes and other entities'. With the resulting intensity in global competition comes the central question on the capability of entrepreneurs and societies to adjust sufficiently to the changes underway. While most businesses are coping with the challenges this brings, there is less certainty about the success of societies to adjust. The saying that everything is being internationalised except governments has an undeniably strong ring of truth about it. 5. The policy debate about Europe's adjustment to these trends is picking up, in particular in the wake of the French and Dutch votes on the Constitutional Treaty. Issues such as the vital necessity to invest in research and promote innovation, and providing the right environment in which SMEs can flourish are increasingly recognised as major priorities for Europe's competitiveness. The urgent need to assure long-term energy supplies and the related environmental factors will continue to require clear solutions. Not least the effect of demographic change and immigration will be a theme of growing importance in the minds of European policy makers. Europe should not just manage the process of globalisation, it should try to lead it! 6. Why mention these subjects in a priorities paper for the annual budget? The reason is simple. As the EU completes its discussions on a new financial perspective, probably running to 2013, it is essential for policy makers to focus on what the real challenges will be for the EU in the years ahead, and not be limited to old notions of what were priorities a decade ago. The first budget of the new FP should be strategic in nature, looking at those areas of external and internal policies where funding can make a significant difference and which provide real value for money. This is of particular importance should the Union eventually be landed with a FP which is more a holding operation than a fundamental shift in policy consideration. 7. A critical assessment of the current FP proposed for the next seven years reveals that never have the global challenges been greater - and yet the resources likely to be available to meet them are insufficient, especially in the area of research and innovation.