shall be fully budgetised by creating a budget line in the revenue and expenditure side of the budget, following the principles of budgetary specificity. The revenue shall cover all expenditure of the Coal and Steel Research Fund, including administrative costs of coal and steel research. The revenue shall be used to finance research projects which are not covered by the research framework programme. It shall form the Coal and Steel Research Fund and shall be managed by the Commission. Justification The Committee on Budgets rejects the Commission’s proposal, which would cover an estimated EUR 8.4 million per year in administrative costs through the general budget. It is difficult to see how the Parliament could agree with these extra costs, which would be taken from heading 5, but at the same time not to have any influence on the management and use of appropriations within the Coal and Steel Research Fund. Amendment 5 Article 4, paragraph 2 2. The amounts yielded by the Fund shall be distributed, 27.2% being allocated to the coal sector and 72.8% to the steel sector. Should it prove necessary, t he Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, shall modify the breakdown between coal‑related research and steel‑related research. 2. The amounts yielded by the Fund shall be distributed, 27.2% being allocated to the coal sector and 72.8% to the steel sector. T he Council and the Parliament , acting on a proposal from the Commission, can modify the breakdown between coal‑related research and steel‑related research to take into account the effects of enlargement . Justification See justification under amendment 1. Amendment 6 Article 4, paragraph 3 3. The multiannual technical guidelines for the research programmes shall be adopted by the Council acting by qualified majority under Article 205 of the EC Treaty on a proposal from the Commission after receiving the opinion of the European Parliament . 2. The multiannual technical guidelines for the research programmes shall be adopted under the co-decision procedure by the Council and the European Parliament, in accordance with Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, on a proposal from the Commission. Justification See justification under amendment 3. Amendment 7 Article 6 Administrative expenditure resulting from the liquidation and from the investment and management of the Coal and Steel Research Fund, which replaces that laid down in Article 20 of the Treaty establishing a single Council and a single Commission of the European Communities of 8 April 1965, the amount of which was adjusted by the Council Decision of 21 November 1977, shall be met by the Commission from the general budget of the European Communities. Delete. Justification See justification under amendment 4. Amendment 8 Article 6 (new) The Commission shall present a financial assessment of all of the activities which are currently covered by the ECSC Treaty but are not included in the Coal and Steel Research Fund. Based on this assessment, the budgetary authority shall decide which activities shall be incorporated in the general budget. The current Financial Perspective shall be adjusted by the relevant amount, with no