or investigation with the aid, in view of their specific competence, of persons appointed for that purpose and not employed in the public sector, the possibility of exchanging information provided for in the first subparagraph may be extended to such persons under the conditions stipulated in the second subparagraph. In cases referred to in point (c) of the second subparagraph, the authorities or bodies referred to in the first subparagraph shall communicate to the competent authorities which have transmitted the information the names and precise responsibilities of the persons to whom it is to be sent. Member States shall communicate to the Commission and to the other Member States the names of the authorities or bodies which may receive information pursuant to this paragraph. 6. This Article and Articles 51 and 59 shall not prevent a competent authority from transmitting to central banks, the European System of Central Banks and the European Central Bank, in their capacity as monetary authorities, and, where appropriate, to other public authorities responsible for overseeing payment systems, information intended for the performance of their tasks. Likewise such authorities or bodies shall not be prevented from communicating to the competent authorities such information as they may need for the purposes of paragraph 3. Information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy laid down in Article 51. 7. This Article and Articles 51 and 59 shall not prevent the competent authorities from communicating the information to a clearing house or other similar body recognised under national law for the provision of clearing or settlement services for the markets of one of the Member States, if the competent authorities consider that it is necessary to communicate that information in order to ensure the proper functioning of those bodies in relation to defaults or potential defaults by market participants. The information received shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy laid down in Article 51. The Member States shall, however, ensure that information received under paragraph 1 of this Article may not be disclosed in the circumstances referred to in this paragraph without the express consent of the competent authorities which transmitted it. 8. In addition to and notwithstanding the provisions referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and in Articles 51 and 59, Member States may, by virtue of provisions laid down by law, authorise the disclosure of certain information to other departments of their central government administrations responsible for legislation on the supervision of credit institutions, financial institutions, investment firms and insurance undertakings and to inspectors instructed by those departments. Such disclosures may, however, be made only where necessary for reasons of prudential supervision. 9. This Article and Article 51 shall not prevent the competent authorities from communicating information to any body or bodies to whom they have delegated their functions if they consider it necessary in order to ensure the proper exercise of those functions. The information received shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy laid down in Article 51. The Member States shall, however, ensure that information received