Immunity presupposes the existence of a mandate. Under electoral law, this begins once the conditions of eligibility have been met. After investiture, in addition to their powers, Members enjoy a set of prerogatives including parliamentary immunity. These prerogatives, which guarantee the independence and dignity of Parliament and its Members vis-à-vis other authorities, are exceptional in nature and in principle have the same duration as a Member's term of office. 11. The exemption of Members of Parliament from responsibility for opinions expressed and votes cast in the performance of their duties (Article 9 of the PPI) applies throughout their term of office. The inviolability which Members enjoy under Article 10 of the PPI applies 'during the sessions of the European Parliament'. 12. What is meant by the duration of sessions has been interpreted by the Court of Justice in two judgments issued in 1964 Judgment of 12 May 1964, Wagner v. Fohrmann and Krier , 101/63 [1964] ECR 383. and 1986 Judgment of 10 July 1986, Wybot v. Faure , 149/85 [1986] ECR 2391. respectively. In the Wybot judgment, the Court notes that the concept of a parliamentary session should be understood only in the light of Community law and that any reference to national legislation to interpret it would be incompatible with the text of the Protocol and with the object of Article 10 of the Protocol Wybot judgment, recital 12. . In the absence of any treaty provision concerning the duration of Parliament's sessions, the matter falls under the European Parliament's powers of internal organisation. 13. According to an initial interpretation, the immunity provided for in Article 9 of the PPI would be applicable with effect from the constituent meeting of the European Parliament. This interpretation has a systematic basis, namely Article 9 of the PPI in conjunction with Article 3 of the Act of 1976 and is compatible with the provisions of Rules 8(1) and 10 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, whereby a Member's term of office begins with the opening of the first session held after each election. This interpretation can also be justified by the teleological argument. Articles 9 and 10 of the PPI seek to ensure the protection of the European Parliament as a Community institution and not the protection of its individual Members and it does not begin its work until its constituent meeting. 14. A second possible interpretation would be that Article 9 of the PPI would be applicable with effect from the proclamation of the election result until the end of the Member’s term of office. However, this can be ruled out on grammatical grounds, taking into account Article 9 of the PPI in conjunction with Article 3 of the Act of 1976. In exercising its powers of internal organisation, Parliament has adopted rules of procedure which refer systematically to provisions of the Act of 1976 with regard to the beginning of parliamentary activity (Rule 8(1) of Parliament’s Rules of Procedure). 15. A third interpretation, based on Article 3(2) and (3) of the Act of 1976, in conjunction with Rule 8(1) of Parliament’s Rules