the Administrative Board, on the basis of the draft statement of revenue and expenditure, shall produce a statement of estimates of revenue and expenditure for the Agency for the following financial year. 6. This statement of estimates, which shall include a draft establishment plan together with the provisional work programme, shall, by 31 March, be forwarded by the Administrative Board to the Commission and to the States with which the Union has concluded agreements in accordance with Article 20. 7. The statement of estimates shall be forwarded by the Commission to the European Parliament and to the Council (hereinafter referred to as "the budgetary authority") together with the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union. 8. On the basis of the statement of estimates, the Commission shall enter in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union the estimates it deems necessary for the establishment plan and the amount of the subsidy to be charged to general budget, which it shall place before the budgetary authority in accordance with Article 314 of the TFEU. 9. The budgetary authority shall authorise the appropriations for the subsidy to the Agency and shall adopt the establishment plan for the Agency. 10. The budget shall be adopted by the Administrative Board. It shall become final following final adoption of the general budget of the European Union. Where appropriate, it shall be adjusted accordingly. 11. The Administrative Board shall, as soon as possible, notify the budgetary authority of its intention to implement any project which shall have significant financial implications for the funding of the budget, in particular any projects relating to property such as the rental or purchase of buildings. It shall inform the Commission thereof. 12. Where a branch of the budgetary authority has notified its intention to deliver an opinion, it shall forward its opinion to the Administrative Board within a period of six weeks after the date of notification of the project. Article 11 Implementation and control of the budget 1. The Executive Director shall implement the budget of the Agency. 2. By 1 March following each financial year, the accounting officer of the Agency shall communicate the provisional accounts to the Commission's accounting officer, together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year. The Commission's accounting officer shall consolidate the provisional accounts of the institutions and decentralised bodies in accordance with Article 128 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002. 3. By 31 March following each financial year, the Commission's accounting officer shall forward the provisional accounts of the Agency to the Court of Auditors, together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year. The report shall also be forwarded to the European Parliament and the Council. 4. On receipt of the Court of Auditors' observations on the provisional accounts of the Agency, under Article 129 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, the Executive Director shall draw up the final accounts of the Agency under his/her own responsibility and submit them to the Administrative Board for an opinion. 5. The Administrative