Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (10 May 2007) The Commission, as a member of the International Cocoa Organisation (ICCO) follows with great interest the debate regarding the problem of the child labour that regularly takes place also in this forum. In ICCO it was agreed that a comprehensive approach was necessary at international and intergovernmental level to ensure that cocoa is grown responsibly and without the worst forms of child labour. The International Cocoa Initiative, which is a partnership of industry, organised labour and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), is supposed to develop a programme of research, information exchange and action to enforce recognised labour standards at international level. The European Consensus on Development adopted in December 2005 places a special emphasis on the situation of working children — including those engaged in the worst forms of child labour. The Commission strongly supports the International Labour Organisation (ILO) decent work agenda, which includes the fight against child labour in all its forms as per ILO Conventions No 182 on the worst forms of child labour and No 138 on the minimum age for admission to employment. The Commission is committed to promoting the universal application of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and is increasing its overall efforts to fight all forms of child labour and the trafficking of children. In this regard, the Commission supported a significant project in West Africa based on African interregional collaboration in the fight against the trafficking of human beings, and more specifically, in children. This programme has led to the Declaration of Libreville. The Declaration of Libreville was signed on 7 February 2003 by Ministers from 7 French-speaking countries in West and Central Africa (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Gabon, Mali and Togo). The Declaration called for capacity building and harmonisation of legislation against trafficking of children. The main player at country level was the Italian NGO ‘Alisei’ supported by the Commission under the initiative on democracy and human rights and in collaboration with the ILO. Alisei has just started another project in Gabon to update the existing work against trafficking of children. Under the European initiative for human rights and democracy (EIDHR), children's rights are mainstreamed in all the thematic priorities pursued. Specifically targeting child rights, the calls for proposals announced in the second half of 2005, the so-called ‘Campaign 2 — Fostering a culture of human rights’ called for projects to promote advocacy, awareness-raising and training in the field of children's rights relating to the signature, ratification and implementation of relevant international instruments and related commitments. West Africa (Sub-Saharan) was designated as a focus region for regional macro projects (EUR 300 000 to EUR 1 500 000). The future calls for proposals under the new European Instrument for human rights and democracy will continue to be open to proposals in this field. In Ivory Coast, during the last years, significant funding has benefited the sector of primary education, providing children with access to basic education and therefore substantially reducing the risk of them being exploited by