Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (10 April 2007) The Commission refers the Honourable Member to its replies to his previous Written Questions E‑4874/06 and P‑0174/07 on the same subject. As guardian of the Treaties, the Commission ensures that the EC directives prohibiting discrimination are correctly transposed by Member States. The United Kingdom (UK) has transposed the provisions of Council Directive 2000/78/EC Council Directive 2000/78/EC of 27 November 2000 establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation, OJ L 303, 2.12.2000. concerning prohibition of discrimination in employment. The Commission is currently examining the legislation of all Member States, including the United Kingdom, to ensure that it accurately reflects the requirements of Council Directive 2000/78/EC. According to Article 9(1) of Council Directive 2000/78/EC, Member States shall ensure that judicial and/or administrative procedures, including where they deem it appropriate conciliation procedures, for the enforcement of obligations under this directive are available to all persons who consider themselves wronged by failure to apply the principle of equal treatment to them, even after the relationship in which the discrimination is alleged to have occurred has ended. This provision has been transposed into law in the UK and covers discrimination based on religion. The primary responsibility for proper implementation and enforcement of Community law lies with Member States. Once a directive has been transposed into national law, any person who considers to have been discriminated against on any of the grounds covered by Council Directive 2000/78/EC can bring his case to a national court. The Commission does not normally intervene in individual cases unless a complaint reveals a possible breach of Community law by the Member State. As mentioned on previous occasions, the Commission has not received any complaint concerning the case referred to by the Honourable Member.