of the Treaty, ownership of ECSC assets and liabilities would revert to the Communities remaining. ECSC assets would be separated from other Community funds, and they would make up the revenue for the Coal and Steel Research Fund. The Commission would be responsible for ensuring separate budgetary supervision, guaranteeing that operations not completed in 2002 are carried through, managing the ECSC assets and ensuring their long-term profitability, as well as allocating the income to financing research. The Commission has now presented a set of proposals in order to convert these guidelines into legal instruments and operational procedures. The proposals include the following texts: a Council decision establishing the succeeding instruments to the ECSC (as stated in the Protocol annexed to the Nice Treaty), a Council decision laying down multiannual financial guidelines for managing the assets of the “ECSC in liquidation”, and a Council decision laying down the multiannual technical guidelines for the future Coal and Steel Research Fund. According to the Commission’s estimates, the assets of the ECSC in liquidation will amount to approximately € 1,6 billion. In its communication on the expiry of the ECSC Treaty published in 1997 “Expiry of the ECSC treaty – financial activities”, COM(97) 506 final of 8.10.1997. , the Commission suggested that all revenue (which was in 2001 € 48 million, and is estimated to be around € 45 million per year after 2002) from the management of the ECSC assets should be considered as earmarked revenue under the general budget. This revenue would be used for financing research on coal and steel outside of but complementary to the RTD framework programme. This mechanism would be set up for an indefinite period with a possibility of a revision. The financial and legal arrangements were approved by the Member States at the European Council summit in Nice in December 2000 “Draft protocol on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty and the establishment and management of the research fund for coal and steel”, Annex VII of the Treaty of Nice adopted on 7-10 December 2000. . They will be annexed to the EC Treaty once the provisions adopted at the Nice Summit have been ratified by the Member States. 2. The Commission’s proposals In March 2001, the Commission updated its initial proposals COM(2000) 519 , COM(2000) 520 and COM(2000) 521 of 6.9.2000. so that they would comply with the changes caused by the Nice Protocol. However, these technical adjustments do not alter the substance of the initial proposals. The rapporteur suggests to concentrate on the first two proposals (the framework proposal on ECSC’s succeeding instruments and the multiannual financial guidelines for managing ECSC assets) as they fall directly within the competences of the Committee on Budgets. Framework proposal on ECSC’s succeeding instruments The framework proposal establishes the succession of the European Community to the ECSC. According to the proposal, the net revenue deriving from the investments of the assets of the Coal and Steel Research Fund would constitute revenue in the EU budget. This revenue would be earmarked for a specific purpose, namely for