a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 97/68/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to measures against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from internal combustion engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery ( COM(2002) 765 – C5‑0636/2002 – 2002/0304(COD)) Draftsman: Jan Marinus Wiersma PROCEDURE The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism appointed Jan Marinus Wiersma draftsman at its meeting of 21 January 2003. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 18 March and 30 April 2003. At the last meeting it adopted the following amendments unanimously. The following were present for the vote Rijk van Dam vice-chairman, acting chairman; Gilles Savary vice-chairman; Jan Marinus Wiersma draftsman; Sylviane H. Ainardi, Pedro Aparicio Sánchez (for Rosa Miguélez Ramos), Philip Charles Bradbourn, Christine de Veyrac, Paolo Costa (for Dirk Sterckx), Jan Dhaene, Garrelt Duin, Alain Esclopé, Giovanni Claudio Fava, Jacqueline Foster, Mathieu J.H. Grosch, Konstantinos Hatzidakis, Georg Jarzembowski, Dieter-Lebrecht Koch, Giorgio Lisi, Emmanouil Mastorakis, Enrique Monsonís Domingo (for Herman Vermeer pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Josu Ortuondo Larrea, Wilhelm Ernst Piecyk, Samuli Pohjamo, Bernard Poignant, Alonso José Puerta, John Purvis (for Ari Vatanen pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Reinhard Rack, Carlos Ripoll y Martínez de Bedoya, Ingo Schmitt, Brian Simpson, Ulrich Stockmann, Margie Sudre, Daniel Varela Suanzes-Carpegna (for Rolf Berend), Hannes Swoboda (for John Hume), Joaquim Vairinhos, Christian Ulrik von Boetticher, Mark Francis Watts and Brigitte Wenzel-Perillo(for Luigi Cocilovo). SHORT JUSTIFICATION The proposal aims at tightening the emission standards of compression ignition enginges intended for use in non-road mobile machinery and with an engine power of 18 - 560 kW by amending Directive 97/68/EC. Directive 97/68/EC defines two stages of emission standards: Stage I standards have already entered into force and Stage II standards enter into force between December 2000 and December 2003 depending on the power band. Article 19 of Directive 97/68/EC makes arrangements for a further reduction in emission limit values (Stage III), provided that the air quality situation makes this necessary and that the required techniques are globally available.The implementation of Stages I and II of the current legislation has reduced nitrogen oxides (NOx) and particulate emissions (PM). As this reduction has been counteracted by an increased number of engines, the first prerequisite for the implementation of Stage III is fulfilled. The Commission states that technology to further limit the emissions of air pollution from compression engines is available or will be available on the global market within 3 to 5 years, meaning that the second requirement of Article 19 is also met. The competences of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism are only touched by the following two modifications to the scope of the Directive: 1.The Directive shall be applicable for railway locomotives designed to carry passengers or freight with an engine power between 18 and 560 kW, i.e. for small (railcar) engines. Specifications for heavy-duty engines in railway applications are not a part of this proposal and shall be addressed separately. 2. The Commission wants vessels on inland waterways to improve their environmental performance and therefore extends the