WRITTEN QUESTION E-2127/08 by Roberta Angelilli (UEN) to the Commission (15 April 2008) Subject: Legal nature of the Associazione Nazionale Combattenti e Reduci [National Association of Combatants and Ex-Servicemen] and the Istituto di Vigilanza Urbe [Rome Institute of Vigilance] In 1923 — by means of Royal Decree No 850 issued by the then Kingdom of Italy — the ANCR (Associazione Nazionale Combattenti e Reduci) was recognised as the sole representative and protector vis-à-vis the Italian Government of First World War soldiers' spiritual and material interests. Following the granting of such recognition the ANCR was raised — by means of Royal Decree No 1371 of 1923 — to the status of a charitable trust with public functions which were confirmed by means of Judgment No 588 issued by the Council of State in 1970. Subsequently — in 1977, by means of Presidential Decree No 616 (concerning the delegation of State social tasks and the re-organisation of public bodies) — certain unnecessary public bodies were disbanded, whilst bodies with a community structure such as the ANCR continued to exist as charitable trusts and retained their assets, so as to be able to perform the social tasks required of them; they were to adopt the status of a legal body governed by private law only after ad hoc decrees had been issued. However, it would appear that no such decree in respect of the Associazione Nazionale Combattenti e Reduci has ever been issued, which means that the ANCR still has the status of a public body as laid down in Judgment No 588, issued by the Council of State in 1970. For the above reasons the Italian State has — since 1980 and by means of appropriate laws — supported welfare activities by making an ordinary state contribution to the ANCR and banning contributions for private bodies. Furthermore, the ANCR is monitored by Italy's Court of Auditors, by the Ministry of Defence and by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In addition the Italian State passed a legislative decree (No 157) in 1995 for the purpose of transposing Directive 92/50/EEC OJ L 209, 24.7.1992, p. 1 , in which the legal nature of welfare and charity bodies such as the ANCR and the IVU (Istituto di Vigilanza Urbe [Rome Institute of Vigilance]) is reconfirmed. (The latter is the ANCR's ‘active arm’ with no legal autonomy, as stipulated in Presidential Decree No 127 of 1986 concerning the ANCR's status.) However, the Italian State would now like to break the link between the ANCR and the IVU (a link which has already been acknowledged in many civil and penal judgments) and to strip them of their status as public bodies, which will seriously undermine the job-security of their employees. In the light of the above, will the Commission answer the following questions? 1. Does the lack of recognition as a charitable trust not constitute an infringement of Community law? 2. Will the Commission provide an overview of the situation?