News Alert : 18-10-2002 Brussels, 18 October 2002 The Week Ahead 21 – 27 October 2002 The President of the European Parliament, Pat Cox, will comment on the result of the Irish referendum on the Nice Treaty at a press conference in Strasbourg on Monday 21 October at 6pm. The Strasbourg plenary session opens on Monday afternoon with a Commission statement plus debate on the Stability Pact, as the latter comes under increasing strain. The first item on Tuesday's agenda is a debate on medicinal products, a key issue here being the rules on information and publicity. This is followed by a debate on health regulations for the transport of pets. At 12 noon the President of Hungary, Ferenc Mádl, will address the House. In the afternoon MEPs hold their first-reading debate on the 2003 budget, the vote on which takes place on Thursday. Wednesday's sitting includes a debate on the Brussels summit of 24-25 October, where the key items on the agenda will be enlargement and Kaliningrad. The same day Parliament's Conference of Presidents will select the winner of this year's Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought. Several committee meetings are taking place this week in Strasbourg. At the Employment Committee a report is due to be adopted on the rights of temporary and agency workers, while the Environment Committee is holding a hearing of the candidate proposed as head of the new European Food Safety Authority. On Tuesday Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres has a meeting with Mr Cox and also appears before the Conference of Presidents. Returning to Brussels, Parliament's President will address the Heads of State or Government at the opening of the summit on Friday. STRASBOURG PLENARY SESSION 21 – 24 October 2002 Monday, 21 October 5-9.30pm - Opening of plenary session and order of business - Commission statement on the Stability Pact - Report by Andrew DUFF (ELDR, UK) on the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights * - Report by Jean LAMBERT (Greens/EFA, UK) on minimum standards to qualify for refugee status * - Report by Charlotte CEDERSCHIÖLD (EPP-ED, S) on attacks against information systems - Report by Geneviève FRAISSE (EUL/NGL, F) on theatre and the performing arts in an enlarged Europe Tuesday, 22 October 9am-1pm, 3-6pm, 9pm–12 midnight - Votes on requests for urgent procedure (Rule 112) Joint debate on medicinal products ***I . Report by Rosemarie MÜLLER (PES, D) on the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products ***I . Report by Françoise GROSSETÊTE (EPP-ED, F) on the Community code on medicinal products for human use ***I . Report by Françoise GROSSETÊTE (EPP-ED, F) on the Community code on veterinary medicinal products ***II - Recommendation by Jill EVANS (Greens/EFA, UK) on animal health requirements applicable to non-commercial movement of pets 11.30am - Votes, including votes under Rule 110(a) on: * . Report by Gianfranco DELL'ALBA (IND, I) on framework financial regulation for Community bodies ***I . Report by Gianfranco DELL'ALBA (IND, I) on amendment of the constituent acts of Community bodies (codecision procedure) * . Report by Gianfranco DELL'ALBA (IND, I) on amendment