concerned are granted a reflection period allowing them to recover and escape the influence of the perpetrators of the offences so that they can take an informed decision as to whether to cooperate with the competent authorities. (1) Member States shall ensure that the third-country nationals concerned are granted a reflection period allowing them to recover and escape the influence of the perpetrators of the offences so that they can take an informed decision as to whether to cooperate with the competent authorities. The duration and starting point of the period referred to in the first subparagraph shall be determined according to national law . The duration of the reflection period shall be 30 days from the point at which the third-country national breaks off all relations with the alleged perpetrators of the offences referred to in Article 2, points (b) and (c) . Amendment 5 Article 9, paragraph 1 (1) Member States shall ensure that the third-country nationals concerned who do not have sufficient resources are granted standards of living capable of ensuring their subsistence and access to emergency medical treatment. They shall attend to the special needs of the most vulnerable, including, where appropriate and if provided by national law , psychological assistance. Member States shall ensure that the third-country nationals concerned who do not have sufficient resources are granted standards of living capable of ensuring their subsistence and access to emergency medical treatment. They shall attend to the special needs of the most vulnerable, such as pregnant women, victims of sexual and other forms of violence, disabled persons and, insofar as Member States make use of the possibility provided for in Article 3(3), minors, including, where appropriate and if provided by national law, psychological assistance. Amendment 6 Article 13 a (new) Article 13a Court proceedings Member States shall protect the privacy and identity of persons who take part in court proceedings and shall guarantee, in particular, that such proceedings are not held in public . Justification Persons who act as witnesses in court proceedings above all have the right to be protected against intimidation and/or reprisals. The confidentiality of such proceedings represents a basic precaution. Amendment 7 Article 14, point (c a) (new) (ca) In addition, Member States shall ensure that unaccompanied minors are accommodated on the basis of arrangements in the following order of preference: - with adult relatives; - with a foster family; - in institutions which specialise in accommodating minors; - in other forms of accommodation suitable for minors. Justification Consideration must also be given to accommodating victims who are minors.