for the establishment , the management and the transparent functioning of this network ▌. 5. The Commission shall only allow such authorities to join the network which fulfil the principles of good governance as defined in paragraph 1. Article 21 Data collection for statistical and monitoring purposes 1. Member States shall collect statistical ▌data needed for monitoring purposes on the provision of cross-border healthcare, the care provided, its providers and patients, the cost and the outcomes. They shall collect such data as part of their general systems for collecting healthcare data, in accordance with national and Community law for the production of statistics and on the protection of personal data , and specifically Article 8(4) of Directive 95/46/EC . 2. Member States shall transmit the data referred to in paragraph 1 to the Commission at least annually, except for data that are already collected pursuant to Directive 2005/36/EC. 3. Without prejudice to the measures adopted for the implementation of the Community Statistical Programme as well as to those adopted for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1338/2008 , the Commission shall, in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 22(2), adopt measures for the implementation of this Article. Chapter V Implementing And final provisions Article 22 Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee, consisting of representatives of the Member States and chaired by the Commission representative. In that process, the Commission shall ensure the consultation of experts from the relevant patient and professional groups in an appropriate manner, especially in the context of the implementation of this Directive, and shall provide a reasoned report on those consultations. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 of that Decision. The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at 3 months. Where implementing measures relate to the processing of personal data the European Data Protection Supervisor shall be consulted. 3. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5a (1) to (4), and Article 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. Article 23 Reports The Commission shall within five years after the date referred to in Article 25 (1) draw up a report on the operation of this Directive , including statistics on patient outflows and inflows resulting from this Directive, and submit it to the European Parliament and to the Council. To that end and without prejudice to Article 25 , the Member States shall communicate to the Commission any measure they have introduced, modified or maintained with a view to implementing the procedures laid down in Articles 8 and 9. Article 24 References to other legislation As from the date of applicability of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 ║: – references to Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 in this Directive shall be construed as references to Regulation (EC) No 883/2004; – references to Article 22 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 in this Directive shall be construed as references to