Question for written answer E-001862/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Sophia in 't Veld (ALDE) , Antonyia Parvanova (ALDE) , Françoise Castex (S&D) , Véronique Mathieu (PPE) , Norbert Neuser (S&D) , Sirpa Pietikäinen (PPE) and Jean Lambert (Verts/ALE) (15 February 2012) Subject: Follow-up to the EUR 1 billion Millennium Development Goals initiative At the UN Millennium Development Goals Summit in September 2010, the President of the Commission announced that the EU would launch a EUR 1 billion initiative to help the world's poorest countries make progress in achieving their Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The governments of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States were invited to submit proposals for the EDF committee’s approval. On 21 December 2011, the Commission published MEMO/11/930, which included a list of countries alongside their projects and MDG focus, as well as the sums of money these countries are to receive under the initiative. Civil society stakeholders were consulted during the drafting of the proposal, and they also worked together with the governments of Kenya, Senegal and Ethiopia – which have some of the world's highest maternal mortality rates – to ensure that Millennium Development Goals Nos 4 and 5 were prominently mentioned in their MDG initiative proposals. Despite the high quality of the proposals, no MDG No 5 projects were selected in the three aforementioned countries. Can the Commission clarify: 1. How were the ACP governments’ MDG proposals evaluated, and what guidelines were used to evaluate the quality of those proposals? What criteria were used in making this decision? 2. Which institution or agency was responsible for this evaluation process, and can it come forward with a reasoned explanation why the three aforementioned countries will not be supported? 3. Will the Commission give further feedback to the ACP governments to explain its decision? 4. Could the competent body also elaborate on how the funds will be implemented in the different countries?