Life and the Life Assurance Industry: an Interim Report'; in August 2001 Lord Penrose started his wide-ranging investigation; in September 2001 the Corley Report into Equitable Life was published; in October 2001 the Baird Report into regulatory handling of Equitable Life was published. In April 2002 the Society tried to sue its former auditor, Ernst & Young, and 15 former directors but the action was ultimately unsuccessful. In June 2003, the UK parliamentary Ombudsman issued a report finding prudential regulators not guilty of maladministration. In March 2004, the Penrose report was published. It stated in essence that, despite having identified some serious regulatory failings in the way the firm was supervised, the balance of blame lay more with ELS' management than with the regulators. Later the same year, the first petitions on the case reached the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions. The petitioners argued that UK regulators failed to supervise adequately the Society's ability to meet its regulatory financial requirements and that the actions and omissions of the past regulators were in breach of UK rules and the corresponding EU life insurance Directives. On 18 January 2006, Parliament decided to set up the Committee of Inquiry into the Crisis of the Equitable Life Assurance Society (EQUI) committee, which held its constituent meeting on 2 February 2006. Main figures and policies At the height of its business in 2001, the number of with-profits policyholders affected by the policy cut was close to one million, mostly in the UK. If non with-profits policyholders are included, up to 1.7 million policyholders were affected, according to some estimates. Today, the with-profits fund, worth ยฃ10 billion, still has about 600,000 members. It is estimated that some 15,000 policies had been sold in Germany, the Irish republic and other non-UK Member States by the time of the closure of ELS to new business in 2001. Currently there would appear to be 8,300 with-profits policyholders remaining in Ireland and some 4,000 in Germany. Types of policies Before describing what type of products were sold by ELS, it is perhaps useful to clarify for the layman what an annuity is. In essence, it is an insurance product that provides a series of periodic payments that are guaranteed as to amount and payment period. If a person chooses to take the annuity payments over his or her lifetime, the person will have a guaranteed source of income until his death. If he dies before his life expectancy, he will get back from the insurer far less than was paid in. On the other hand, if he outlives his life expectancy, he might get back far more than the cost of the annuity plus earnings. Usually, the earnings that occur during the term of the annuity are tax-deferred (i.e., they are not taxed until they are paid out). The following are different types of annuity products, with an indication of the types of policies sold by the Society and the outstanding amounts For more detail see WE 28. : ยง Single-Premium Annuities : the investment is made all at once ยง Flexible-Premium