hours (which in many Member States is the minimum length of time required for it to be confirmed that an individual is or is not being held in custody). Again in order to make the text more immediately comprehensible to users of the system, the rapporteur considers it useful to specify that the reply form from the requested Member State must be accompanied by a statement of the convictions which appear in the criminal record . Amendments 4, 5 and 6 - Article 5: Conditions for the use of personal data This article is an extremely delicate one, and the rapporteur is aware that the requirements of investigative activities (where speedy exchange of information is essential) must be balanced against the need to safeguard and protect personal data. However, it is a condition of the mutual trust which must underpin relations between Member States that where personal data are forwarded for purposes other than criminal proceedings, the information gathered may be used solely and exclusively within the limits specified by the requesting Member State and accepted by the requested Member State . Furthermore, as a further safeguard that there will not be misunderstandings of any kind between Member States, whenever personal data are forwarded for purposes other than criminal proceedings, the Member State to which such a request is issued must automatically be informed of the use made of it by the requesting Member State. Lastly, the rapporteur considers that, pending the advent of a single text which will protect the use of personal data in this third-pillar field, the wording of the text must contain a reference (already present in the recitals) to the rules which protect personal data on the basis of the 28 January 1981 Council of Europe Convention on the protection of individuals with regard to the automatic processing of personal data and Article 23 of the 29 May 2000 Convention on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union. The ideal thing would be a reference to the new rules which the EU some time ago undertook to adopt with a view to protecting data in cases where the latter are used for the purpose of maintaining public security. If such rules are adopted before the text under consideration is, the reference contained in the proposed amendment should be updated. Amendment 7 - Article 8: Implementation With regard to the timing of this decision (which will be directly applicable in all the Member States), the rapporteur considers that deadlines (which might not be met) should not be laid down in advance; it would be better to wait for a definite timeframe to emerge once the procedure is concluded. The decision must in any event be implemented by the Member States as soon as possible and at the latest within six months of the date upon which it is published in the Official Journal of the European Union . Amendment 8 - Form With reference to the standard forms proposed by the Commission, the rapporteur considers - as the Council has already agreed