with the establishment of the Financial Services Ombudsman. Germany In Germany there has been an Ombudsman for the insurance sector ( Versicherungsombudsmann ) since October 2001. In contrast to the UK system and the recently established Irish Financial Services Ombudsman, the German scheme was not established by law but by voluntary agreement of the insurance industry, which is also responsible for its financing. It follows that jurisdiction and powers of the ombudsman are not defined by law. The scheme is set up in the legal form of a registered association ( eingetragener Verein ). Most of the insurance undertakings operating in Germany are members of the scheme. They include undertakings whose registered office is in other countries and have set up branches or agencies in Germany. In total, approximately 95% of all business of the insurance market is covered by the ombudsman scheme. Institutions which are members of the scheme are listed on the Ombudsman’s website: http://www.versicherungsombudsmann.de/VOM/Navigationsbaum/WirUeberUns/AngeschlosseneUnternehmen/index.html The insurance undertakings that are members of the ombudsman scheme have entered into contractual obligations, subjecting themselves to the jurisdiction of the ombudsman and the procedural rules promulgated under the scheme (see ES 3 Pages 70-74. ). The procedural rules adopted by the ombudsman prescribe that the ombudsman shall have jurisdiction over any disputes that arise out of insurance contracts entered into between a consumer and an insurance undertaking that is a member of the scheme. The consumer may file the complaint in oral or written form and does not need to be represented by an attorney. In order to be admissible, a complaint shall not exceed a value of €50.000, it shall not be concerned with the application of actuarial principles, no lawsuit shall be pending with a court in the same matter and the claim shall not be time-barred. While the ombudsman has far-reaching discretion in the settlement procedure, he is bound by statute and law in his decisions. If the value of a complaint is less than €5.000, he issues a decision which is binding for the defendant but not the complainant, who may subsequently appeal to the courts. If the value exceeds €5.000, he issues a recommendation which is not binding for either party. The complainant does not incur any costs, irrespective of the outcome of the proceedings. The committee was informed that ELAS was not a member of the German Ombudsman Scheme (see for instance ES 3 Page 71. , Mr WEYER, H3; Mr DUCOULOMBIER, H9). Mr THOMSON explained in WE-CONF 21 that this was due to the fact that the German scheme was established only after ELAS had closed to new business: " Prior to 2001 when the Society had already closed to new business, there was no applicable consumer complaints body in Germany ". German policyholders therefore did not have access to this route to redress. Mr WEYER in H3 reflected the experience made by German Equitable Life policyholders who approached the German Ombudsman for Insurance. They were told that " Equitable Life is not a Member of our association" and advised to "approach the Financial Ombudsman Service