2006, a committee delegation visited Dublin and met with aggrieved Irish policyholders. Following this visit, a questionnaire was sent by the committee to the participants with detailed questions, in particular concerning the avenues they pursued in trying to obtain redress. 30 Irish policyholders returned the questionnaire completed, some of them enclosing copies of documents and of their correspondence with ELAS, financial authorities and ombudsman schemes (WE-FILE 33). a.) Motivations for investing with ELAS Many policyholders emphasised that, when they decided to invest in an Equitable Life with-profits policy, they relied on the long-standing reputation of Equitable Life as the oldest UK mutual life insurer. Some also alluded to the Society's excellent credit rating (see for instance WE-FILE 15, WE-FILE 33), such as emphasised in Equitable's sales material (see annex to WE-FILE 15). Irish policyholders told the committee during the meeting in Dublin on 6 October 2006 that they were attracted to Equitable Life by the fact that they could purchase policies directly from the Society's branch and thus avoid commission fees charged by intermediaries for policies offered by ELAS competitors. In addition, international policyholders pointed out that, when they invested, they were informed by ELAS that the industry was properly supervised by regulators (see also Mr SEYMOUR in WE 36 and H7; Mr DUGGAN in WE-FILE 14). b.) ELAS advertising International policyholders informed the committee that their decision to invest with Equitable was also influenced by advertisements and sales-material from the Society, which emphasised the " supreme performance " of the fund (see WE 53 C-1. ) or referred to the "extraordinary figure" of 10.75% interim rate for bringing values forward during 2000 (WE-FILE 12 and WE-FILE 15). Equitable sales material submitted to the committee also alluded to " smoothing of fluctuations " (WE-FILE 13; WE 53): Mr SEYMOUR (H7) referred to " a document, [which] stated the method of management that ELAS provided something of a smoothing fund based on the build up of reserves... ELAS claimed it was running its pension fund as a smoothing fund by holding reserves. " Finally, policyholders said that Equitable's sales material made them believe their investment was absolutely safe. The ELAS advertisement of 2000 annexed to WE-FILE 12 states the following: " With the Equitable you are putting nothing at risk ". ELAS advertising was also subject to criticism in Germany. Mr WEYER indicates in WE 85 Page 8. that " in early 2000 ELAS started an aggressive campaign to attract more German clients and launched adverts referring to achieved interest rates of 13% for 1999 ". In H3 he claimed that Equitable Life's sales adverts implicitly suggested to potential German policy buyers that they were buying a policy subject to prudential scrutiny of the German regulatory authorities, which was not the case. Copies of EL advertisements published in German newspapers " Buy German, earn British. High returns consistent with a high degree of security - the ideal savings strategy for German investors first had to be devised " and " 13% returns: ask your insurer why they only give you half " full-page