made clearer and that it should include a European analysis of human rights developments, including rights for national minorities, in the various Member States and a definition of strategies to enable national and European policies in this field to evolve with a view to improving their coherence; 93. Urges the Member States to ratify the Convention establishing an International Criminal Court as soon as possible and to take all the necessary measures to ensure that, in the near future, perpetrators of crimes against humanity can under no circumstances benefit from impunity within the EU; 94. Believes that the European Union should consider establishing an independent European Human Rights Agency, as was suggested at the European Council meeting in Cologne; calls, however, on the Commission to consider the feasibility of actually establishing such an agency or extending the scope of the existing European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia; 95. Suggests that such an agency would carry out a systematic monitoring of the human rights situation within the Union as well as evaluating the mainstreaming of human rights into all areas of EU policy; 3. Education and information 96. Emphasises the unique role of education in promoting a spirit of tolerance and calls on the Member States and the European Union to promote projects aimed at improving the teaching of civics; 97. Welcomes the important contributions made by NGOs in the fields of tolerance and international understanding through intercultural activities, educational exchange programmes etc.; 98. Urges the Member States to step up the training of law-enforcement officials and prison personnel in respect for human rights and conflict management and proposes that the future European Police Academy, which the Tampere European Council decided to set up, be responsible for this major aspect of training; 4. The Wider Context 99. Stresses that improving the human rights situation, securing the rights of minorities, eliminating discrimination and combating violence, exclusion and poverty should be seen in the much wider context of the European objectives of economic and social cohesion and promotion of sustainable growth, as set out in Article 2 of the EC Treaty; 100. Emphasises the dangers posed to respect for human rights, the fight against racism and xenophobia and democracy in general by the existence of extremist parties and groupings and the ideology they propagate and calls on the EU institutions to display greater vigilance; 101. Hopes that the next European Parliament report will be based on uncontentious and objectively verifiable criteria, such as the exact state of, and arrangements for, enforcement of rights recognised in each country's national legislation as enforceable at law, failures to respect these rights as indicated by judgments handed down by the courts of each country, and a breakdown, Member State by Member State, of any adverse judgments given by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg; this report should be based also on the work of UN bodies supervising international human rights conventions; 102. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the governments and parliaments of the Member States and the candidate