Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (10 December 2010) The EU is following closely the situation of religious minorities, including the Christian community, in Pakistan. It should be noted that Pakistan’s Constitution provides for freedom of religion and requires the state to safeguard the rights of minorities. The EU is aware of the Gojra incidents, and the violence against Christians there can only be described as appalling. The EU is aware that violence against Christians is part of a wider assault by extremist elements, not just against religious minorities, but even against traditional forms of Sunni Islam, as suicide attacks on principal Sufi shrines in the country have amply demonstrated. The EU wishes to demonstrate solidarity with the vast majority of Pakistani citizens who wish only to carry on their lives without the constant threat posed by sectarian violence. In as far as the rights of religious minorities are concerned, the EU has consistently used its political dialogue with Pakistan to raise human rights issues, and there have been a number of diplomatic demarches. This has been complemented from 2007 onwards with the human rights dialogue under the cooperation agreement with Pakistan, which allows for regular and two-way dialogue on governance and human rights. The EU has insisted that individual and minority rights be respected. The blasphemy laws have also repeatedly been brought up by the EU with the Government of Pakistan as part of this human rights dialogue. The EU understands that, in absolute terms, the majority of those accused under the laws belong to the Muslim faith. But the EU is conscious of the fact that the blasphemy laws have often been applied against religious minorities, and that false accusations have been used as a tool to settle private disputes or for personal gain. The last meeting of the EU‑Pakistan Joint Commission took place on 25 March 2010, preceded by a sub-group on governance, human rights and migration on 24 March. The issue of freedom of religion and rights of minorities were discussed on that occasion. The EU has also raised the issue at the Summit with Pakistan on 4 June 2010. Further to this, the EU statement at the 14th Human Rights Council in Geneva (31 May-18 June 2010) also explicitly referred to the situation of minorities in Pakistan.