been stabilized by the Compromise Scheme, a fact which proved to be untrue, as the fund remained subject to market fluctuations and the subsequent stock market fall during 2002. As a result, aggrieved policyholders claimed that after the Scheme was adopted in February 2002, non-GAR policyholders were definitely worse off than before, having signed away their right to claim redress from the Society, without having obtained any factual counterpart. Equitable Life and the FSA (H4) have repeatedly argued that the subsequent policy cuts had nothing to do with the terms of the Compromise as such but were due to the drastic stock market fall in 2002 that weakened the asset base of the with-profits fund, and claimed that a market downturn of that magnitude could not have been foreseen at the moment the Scheme was devised in September 2001 Between September 2001 and September 2002 the FTSE-100 stock market index fell by 29%, but between December 2001 and April 2002 it remained basically unchanged. . The Cazalet Memorandum of January 2001 sent to the Treasury Committee agreed that " it would be in the interest of the Society as a whole to resolve the guaranteed annuity option problem by having policyholders with pensions in deferment relinquish their options ... However, it is not at all clear that the GAR policyholders will vote for such a scheme, as it appears that the likely proposal will see the value of the GAR group's policies enhanced as a result of the up-front capital boost but that, on the basis of current market conditions, the subsequent loss of the GAR would cause a concomitant fall in annuity income in retirement ... If Equitable did succeed in persuading its policyholders to vote for what it calls the "compromise", this would not strengthen its financial situation considerably, notwithstanding the £250m kicker from Halifax, as the Society would incur substantial expenditure in buying out the GARs. The real benefit would not be the modest improvement in Equitable's solvency position, but the fact that the fundamentally unstable GAO problem would be eliminated" (WE58, page 14) Referring to the Compromise Scheme, policyholder Mr. WEIR (WE6) claimed that " when Equitable Life proposed (with the participation of the FSA) a Compromise scheme in which policyholders would give up all their legal rights to sue in return for a very small increase in policy values, Equitable promised greater stability and hope for the future and that the Society would be putting £4 billion back into equity investments if the Compromise was voted through. But the increases in policy values were not guaranteed – indeed within just a matter of weeks the 2.5% increases had magically turned into 4% fund reductions! ... It is difficult to believe that at the time the Compromise was devised the management of Equitable Life didn’t already know full well that they were going to get people to sign away their rights based on a totally false prospectus, with the full knowledge of the FSA. Without a financial 'consideration' (however small) being offered to policyholders in return for giving