Reply (21 September 2006) 1. The human rights violations figure high on the agenda of the discussions EU Special Representative Ajello has with his Congolese interlocutors, in particular in the context of the security sector reform. During the difficult transition phase it became very clear, that only once the security sector has undergone substantial reforms leading to a truly republican army respecting human rights as well as basic democratic principles can we actually address the problem of child soldiers who are still recruited by force into rebel militias. To this end, and by deploying its EUSEC mission focusing on SSR support, the European Union is committed to supporting the DRC in its efforts to end this human tragedy. 2. In the context of his political demarches, the EU Special Representative raises regularly the issue of child soldiers with his interlocutors, in particular with the President and the Vice‑presidents. So does the Personal Representative of SG/HR Solana for Human Rights, Mr Michael Matthiessen. Once a newly elected and legitimate government is in place, more pressure can be used and more assistance will be provided, including through the provisions of the Cotonou Agreement. This should be done in close cooperation with MONUC representatives who are engaged in a permanent dialogue with the Congolese authorities in this respect. 3. In the fragile and difficult transition period, the international community focuses mainly on establishing the conditions in terms of stability, territorial control and institutional capacity which would allow this pressing problem to be addressed. As regards the World Bank, the EU and its Member States have substantially contributed to the setting up of the Multi-Country Demobilisation and Reintegration Programme (MDRP) focusing mainly on disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration activities, in particular in DR Congo. Although the MDRP has encountered many problems and delays in DR Congo, it addresses explicitly the challenge of demobilising and reintegrating child soldiers.