work must be made available without any unnecessary restriction in order to ensure ready, affordable access to the final product and/or to any subsequent research. One of the points of the EC action programme to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis refers to the ‘development of specific global public goods’. The future results of the EDCTP programme must be seen in this light. The initiative would fail if the products derived from such research were not finally made available, for reasons involving patents and high prices. Furthermore, since the ECDTP programme is essentially a public initiative, mainly involving public financial investment, the results thereof should primarily serve the public interest, i.e. the health of the people in developing countries. A transparent approach to intellectual-property, rights, with the public interest in mind, should be a basic principle underlying all EDCTP-related activities. Amendment 22 Article 2, paragraph 3a (new) 3a. Strategic decision-making shall involve, through a process of active participation, parties from the developing countries and scientific experts from both North and South. The implementation of the programmes shall be done in cooperation with patients’ groups, NGOs and WHO. Justification Experts and the peoples directly concerned must be involved in devising and undertaking the activities provided for under the programme. Amendment 23 Article 2a (new), paragraph 1 (new) (1) In the context of the activities under the EDCTP Programme referred to in the annex to this decision, the common structure must ensure a high level of involvement of developing countries at all stages. Based on their full participation in the decision making procedures of the EDCTP, including setting and implementing strategic objectives and representation in the EDCTP executive structure, developing country ownership of programme activities will be ensured. Justification The structure of the EDCTP will have to ensure an active participation and responsibility of the developing countries in the decisions on priorities and agenda, and the common structure must ensure this. Amendment 24 Article 2a (new), paragraph 3 (new) (3) The common structure should cooperate effectively with other successful research and development initiatives as appropriate, especially those supported by several Member States and/or the European Commission. Justification It is essential that the EDCTP does not delay or duplicate existing successful research initiatives that are meeting developing country needs. Strategic co-operation is essential if global efforts and the outcomes for developing countries are to be maximised. Amendment 25 Article 3a (new) 3a. The activities described in the Annex must be undertaken in strict accordance with basic ethical principles and with the ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects, as defined in the World Medical Association’s Helsinki Declaration, and the sound clinical practices laid down in Directive 2001/20/EC on the conduct of clinical trials on medicinal products for human use in the European Union must be applied. Justification The World Medical Association has adopted the Helsinki Declaration laying down the ethical principles which must apply to medical research involving human subjects. That declaration, which comes from within the medical profession, must be taken as a reference for any clinical-trial programme conducted anywhere in the world. On