Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (28 January 2009) The development of wind energy contributes to reaching the European Community target to increase the share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources to 21 % by 2010. However the Commission is aware that there are environmental risks from the inappropriate location of wind farms and that wind energy developments should be carried out in a sustainable and balanced way that does not lead to significant damage to areas of conservation importance. The Valencian Wind Farm Plan referred to by the Honourable Member has been object to complaints that motivated an investigation by the Commission. According to this investigation, the 15 zones that the plan comprises were or will be submitted to environmental impact assessment procedures and a favourable environmental impact declaration is needed before the approval of this wind farms project. According to the information provided by the Spanish authorities, none of the wind farms proposed by this Plan are or will be located in any of the Special Protection Areas (SPA) designated by the Autonomous Region of Valencia and the same provision will be applied to the future SPA that will have to be designated in order to comply with the European Court of Justice Judgment Judgment of the Court (Second Chamber) of 28 June 2007. Commission of the European Communities v Kingdom of Spain. Case C‑235/04, OJ C 199, 25.8.2007. of 28 June 2007 (Case C‑235/04). In the context of Case C‑235/04 against the Kingdom of Spain for its failure to establish a complete network of SPAs, the European Court of Justice Judgment declared that Spain failed to classify as SPA territories sufficient in number to offer protection to all the species of the birds listed in Annex I of Directive 79/409/EEC Council Directive 79/409/EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds, as amended by Commission Directive 91/244/EEC of 6 March 1991, OJ L 115, 8.5.1991. and the migratory species not covered by that Annex. The Spanish authorities have reported on an ongoing process to classify new SPAs in the Autonomous Community of Valencia based on scientific data. The new classification will be evaluated jointly by SEO/BirdLife. This proposal has not yet been submitted by the Spanish authorities. Regarding the reported high death toll of birds protected under Annex I of the Birds Directive, the Commission is going to contact the Spanish authorities to request information on the implementation of the provisions of Article 4 of this directive and the right implementation of the mitigation measures as stated in the environmental impact assessment for these projects.