during the November plenary session. In the present resolutions, MEPs call for the setting up of a European Observatory on drought, desertification, floods and other effects of climate change to ensure a more effective response to these problems. European Civil Protection Corps? During Monday's debate, Environment Commissioner Stavros DIMAS welcomed the cooperation between the civil protection services of different EU countries in tackling forest fires, while recognising that it was possible to go further. In their resolution, MEPs are calling for the establishment of a European civil protection corps to focus, in particular, on border areas. Given the criminal origin of most of the forest fires, they call for more stringent penalties for the perpetrators. In the short run, Parliament calls on the European Commission: release rapidly the necessary funds to help the affected areas, via the EU budget's Solidarity Fund. The rules for this fund need to be modified explicitly to include disasters such as drought and forest fires - it was set up in 2002 after serious floods in Germany and central Europe; to expedite all the relevant procedures for re-programming structural and cohesion funds and to make them more flexible; to come up with proposals for a Community policy for mastering forest fires; to encourage monitoring and prevention measures through the " Forest Focus " regulation and the new European Union Forest Strategy; to step up research resources for flood prevention; to support measures to raise public awareness regarding sustainable water and soil use, in particular in southern Europe. Finally, MEPs call on the Council to reinstate the recently abolished aid to farmers for creating fire breaks. Given the long-term investment needed to prevent future natural disasters, they ask the Council to abandon its strategy of limiting the future financial perspective to one per cent of EU Gross National Income. Press enquiries: André Riche (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73840 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 40992 (32) 0498.983.585 e-mail : envi-press@europarl.eu.int Trade Opening up the textile market but only on equal terms Tokia SAÏFI (EPP-ED, FR) Report on textiles and clothing after 2005 (2004/2265(INI)) Doc.: A6-0193/2005 Procedure : Own-initiative Vote : 06.09.2005 Parliament expressed its concern at the soaring imports of Chinese textiles into the EU and called for a " level playing field " between the EU and China, with both sides playing according to the rules of trade, " which so far has certainly not been the case ". MEPs want Chinese manufacturers to observe international labour and environmental standards and they want China to refrain from dumping and do more to combat the production of counterfeit goods. In adopting an own-initiative report by Tokia SAÏFI (EPP-ED, FR) on textiles and clothing, MEPs stressed that they do not seek protectionism but simply equal terms for EU manufacturers. Parliament took note of the Memorandum of Understanding of 10 June 2005 between Commissioner Peter MANDELSON and Chinese Trade Minister Bo XILAI aimed at limiting Chinese textile exports. But MEPs want to go further and called on the Commission and Council to " extend the coverage of the agreement to other categories, where necessary,