Answer given by Ms Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (8 October 2007) Until August 2007 and since the overthrow of the Saddam Hussein regime in 2003, the Commission has made available a total amount of EUR 728.7 million in grants to Iraq. This corresponds therefore to a share of 5.1 % of the total EU financial assistance of EUR 14.2 billion. Of this amount EUR 618.5 million was devoted to reconstruction and EUR 110.2 million to humanitarian assistance. The Commission assistance for reconstruction was mostly channeled through the International Reconstruction Fund Facility for Iraq (IRFFI), with its two branches, managed by the United Nations Development Group (UNDG) and by the World Bank Group (WBG). The assistance of the Commission to Iraq channelled through the UNDG and the WBG amounts to a total of EUR 598 million, or 97 % of its total reconstruction assistance to Iraq. Supervision and monitoring of projects managed by the IRFFI is done under the responsibility of the UNDG and the WBG. The Commission checks the compliance of the UNDG and WBG with the contractual obligations periodically through evaluations and verification missions, as per the agreements passed between the Commission and these two institutions. A specific evaluation mission to the IRFFI projects in Iraq is also going to be performed shortly, with its results expected by April 2008. Progress reports of the IRFFI are produced every six months and are available for consultation on the IRFFI website, www.irffi.org. A summary document of the Commission's support to Iraq has also been shared with Member States and with the Budgetary Committee. The Commission is ready to share this information upon request. Concerning humanitarian assistance, the Commission's funding to Iraq since 2003 amounts to EUR 110.2 million, of which EUR 100 million was allocated in 2003. In addition, in 2007, EUR 6.2 million was made available to support refugees in countries neighbouring Iraq through the United Nations (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs), non-governmental organisations and European Red Cross societies. Another EUR 4 million was allocated to operations within Iraq itself in support of the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) programme. In general, the Commission directly supervises the implementation of humanitarian aid projects through its field monitoring and through the review and approval of the operational and financial reporting by the supported organisations, which may include audits. In the case of the Commission's funding to ICRC in Iraq, where the security conditions do not allow field monitoring by the Commission, this supervision is done remotely and funding has been granted on the grounds of the establishment by the ICRC of an elaborate system of field monitoring.