the process of evaluation and decision-making provided for in Articles 4 to 22 , Member States and the Authority shall take into consideration any further guidance developed in the framework of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health for the purposes of refining, where relevant, the risk assessments. 2. General decision-making criteria 2.1. Article 8 (1) shall only be considered as complied with, where, on the basis of the dossier submitted, authorisation in at least one Member State is expected to be possible for at least one plant protection product containing that active substance for at least one of the representative uses. 2.2. Submission of further information In principle an active substance shall only be approved where a complete dossier is submitted. In exceptional cases an active substance may be approved even though certain information is still to be submitted where: a) the data requirements have been amended or refined after the submission of the dossier or; b) the information is considered to be confirmatory in nature, as required to increase the confidence in the decision. In such cases the additional information shall be submitted to the rapporteur Member State for evaluation within a deadline set by the Commission. The Member State shall report to the Commission on the results of the assessment. 2.3. Restrictions on approval Restrictions on approval, where necessary, may be linked to: – identification of unacceptable risks under particular conditions ; – gaps in the risk assessment resulting from the limited range of representative uses and preparations notified by the applicant. Where the rapporteur Member State considers that the dossier provided lacks certain information, to the effect that the active substance could only be approved subject to restrictions, it shall contact the applicant at an early stage to obtain more information which may possibly enable these restrictions to be removed. 3. Criteria for the approval of an active substance 3.1. Dossier The dossiers submitted pursuant to Article 8 (1) shall contain the information needed to establish, where relevant, Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI), Acceptable Operator Exposure Level (AOEL) and Acute Reference Dose (ARfD). In the case of an active substance for which the limited range of representative uses includes use on feed or food crops or leads indirectly to residues in food or feed, the dossier submitted pursuant to Article 8 (1) shall contain the information necessary to carry out a risk assessment and for enforcement purposes. The dossier shall in particular: a) permit any residue of concern to be defined; b) reliably predict the residues in food and feed, including succeeding crops; c) reliably predict, where relevant, the corresponding residue level reflecting the effects of processing and/or mixing; d) permit a Maximum Residue Level (MRL) to be defined for the commodity and, where appropriate, for products of animal origin where the commodity or parts of it is fed to animals; e) permit, where relevant, concentration or dilution factors due to processing and/or mixing to be defined. The dossier submitted pursuant to Article 8 (1) shall be sufficient to permit, where relevant, an estimate of the