Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (1 July 2008) The Commission is well aware that, with its close connections to the environment and climate itself, tourism is a highly climate-sensitive economic sector and has identified the several impacts that climate change can have on tourism and tourism destinations. Indeed, a recent study of UNEP (United Nations Environment Program) UNEP 2008 — Climate Change Adaptation and Mitigation in the Tourism Sector: Frameworks, Tools and Practices. identified the Mediterranean region as a climate change vulnerable hot spot for tourism, mainly due to expected warmer summers, water scarcity, land, biodiversity loss, marine biodiversity loss and the higher probability for diseases outbreaks. This was also reflected in the communication adopted in 2007 by the Commission on the adaptation to climate change in the EU. In March 2006, the Commission adopted a renewed Tourism Policy COM(2006)134 final. having as a main objective to contribute to ‘improving the competitiveness of the European tourism industry and creating more and better jobs through the sustainable growth of tourism in Europe and globally’. The Commission recognises that promoting environmental objectives is of high importance for the 21st century and therefore identifies itself with the role of main player in coordinating action at a European level. The Commission encourages Community and bilateral aid programmes to recognise, and support, appropriate tourism development as a tool for sustainable development and poverty alleviation, and to work together and with international bodies on this. In this framework, a critical objective for tourism sustainability in Europe is to ensure that the destination management process fully embraces sustainability objectives and principles. The Member States that have in place a climate change adaptation strategy identified actions for sectoral adaptation in the tourism sector. In addition, the Commission provides a supportive policy framework for the integrated development and implementation of sustainable tourism strategies at a local destination level, in conjunction with Member States. It also encourages conducting and disseminating research on relevant issues across Europe like climate change impacts and vulnerability, as well as identifying and disseminating examples of good practices with regard to climate change mitigation and adaptation. In its Conclusions of 22-23 November 2007, the Competitiveness Council invited the Commission (as well as the Members States and the tourism stakeholders) to encourage the creation of networks for the exchange of experiences and good practices. Since November 2007, the Commission has been following the creation of a network of Regions for a sustainable and competitive European tourism initiated by three Mediterranean regions. In a near future, this network will also work on topics related to climate change (environmental management, de-seasonality, transport and mobility, among others) and could allow exchanging information on climate change impacts and share best practices on adaptation to climate change thus increasing the awareness in the sector. Indeed, available studies UNWTO and UNEP 2007 — Climate Change and Tourism: Responding to Global Challenges; OECD, 2007, Climate change adaptation in the European Alps. that have examined the climate change risk appraisal of tourism have consistently found low awareness of climate change and little