in logistics and information technology to facilitate access by SMEs to the new e-economy and e-market. (Amendment 12) Recital 2e (new) (2e) The multiannual programme for SMEs must promote measures targeted at specific groups such as women, young people and sectors of the social economy. (Amendment 13) Recital 3a (new) (3a) Any promotion and information policy targeted at SMEs and craft enterprises must be geared to the level of knowledge of such businesses in order to ensure the necessary transparency and effective use by such undertakings. (Amendment 14) Recital 3b (new) (3b) In this connection, the work of Euro-info Centres (EICs), as central points of contact, will be indispensable for SMEs and craft businesses. They provide an interface between the range of funding available and the specific needs of SMEs and craft enterprises. Budget cuts must not affect the work of the EICs. (Amendment 15) Recital 5 (5) On 9 November 1999, the Council approved a report on the integration of sustainable development and enterprise policy in the European Union . (5) On 9 November 1999, the Council approved a report on integrating sustainable development into the industry policy of the European Union. The Commission should therefore ensure that environmental objectives are taken into account when framing and implementing the measures to be adopted under this programme. (Amendments 4 and 16) Recital 5a (new) (5a) On 20 June 2000 the European Council welcomed the European Charter for Small Enterprises( 1 ) and requested that its full implementation should be included in the proposals for the Multiannual Programme for Enterprise and Entrepreneurship. European Union action to assist SMEs must take account of the objectives laid down in the Charter. _____________ ( 1 ) Presidency conclusions. European Council of Santa Maria da Feira (19/20 June 2000) Annex III. (Amendment 17) Recital 6a (new) (6a) The objectives of the multiannual programme are more effectively served by a small number of assistance programmes than by a large number of micro-programmes. (Amendment 18) Recital 6b (new) (6b) SMEs often have difficulty in obtaining satisfactory access to the new e-economy and electronic platforms. Actions to support efforts in this direction are of great added value. (Amendment 19) Recital 7a (new) (7a) The Commission will strive to promote training in entrepreneurship at all levels of society. It will promote the enterprise culture among young people, parents, teachers and in the areas of initial and lifelong learning, while providing for individual monitoring. This should be done through close cooperation with educational establishments, training bodies and all bodies working to promote training. (Amendment 20) Recital 7b (new) (7b) The Commission will strive to give greater encouragement to innovatory initiatives and practices by regularly holding events designed to promote and reward the most deserving efforts. (Amendment 58) Recital 9 (9) Since the measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision are management measures within the meaning of Article 2 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission , they should be adopted by use of the management procedure