Parliamentary Session 14-17 September Parliamentary Session 14-17 September This dossier will allow you to follow the main subjects of the September Parliamentary session (14-17) in Strasbourg, eastern France, which are the inaugural speech of President Buzek, the decision on whether Jose Manuel Barroso will be reconfirmed as Commission President, milk subsidies and preparations for the G20 summit. It will be updated daily. Members gather in Strasbourg from 14-17 September for their monthly session of debates and votes on proposed European legislation. This focus will be updated daily with all the latest news from Strasbourg. To guide you round, here is where you will find the information you need - it will be put there and updated following debates and votes from the Chamber. Section 1: Overview of main issues of the week Section 2: Inaugural speech by new EP President Jerzy Buzek where he lays out his vision for the next two and a half years. Section 3: the current President of the European Commission J osé Manuel Barroso needs a confirmation vote in Parliament to secure a second term. After the backing of the three largest groups in the European Parliament this vote, of which the outcome is by no means certain, will be held on Wednesday at 12. Section 4: As world leaders prepare for the G20 Summit in Pittsburgh , Pennsylvania (25-25 September), to discuss the state of the world's economy, Members of Parliament will debate the issue on the agenda on Wednesday morning (16 September). They will be joined by members of the European Commission and Swedish Ministers, as Stockholm currently chairs all meetings in the Council of Ministers as it holds the EU Presidency. Section 5: Privacy: New EU-US data transfer agreement challenged. MEPs are challenging the proposed agreement between the EU and the United States on the transfer of bank data via the SWIFT network. Section 6: MEPs will vote on new proposals by the European Commission to shore up the milk market by agreeing aid to buy up butter and milk powder until February next year. 20090911INS60563 Parliamentary Session 14-17 September