time. Now it appeared that the data would be passed to third countries, which made the original breach of the treaty still worse, he said. He argued a referral to the Court of Justice was a natural consequence of the previous stances taken by Parliament and that this should go ahead. Monica FRASSONI (B) for the Greens/EFA agreed with the previous three speakers that the referral to the Court of Justice should go ahead. She said the Commission appeared to be trying to bypass democratic oversight on the issue, adopting soft law without a proper agreement. She said that Parliament was not seeking a fight, but that it should ask the opinion of the Court. Perhaps, she concluded, the Commission would learn the lesson not to make such mistakes in the future. The rapporteur on the subject, Johanna L.A. BOOGERD-QUAAK (ELDR, NL) said she was not happy with the Commissioner's statement. There were, she said, more than ten areas where the present agreement contravened the existing directive, and she did not believe such an agreement would be acceptable even to the US Congress. On behalf of the citizens of Europe, Parliament should refer this matter to the Court, she concluded. The Chairman of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, Jorge Salvador HERNANDEZ MOLLAR (EPP-ED, E) told MEPs that going to the Court of Justice would have the effect of delaying the agreement, which would leave data transfer in the illegal situation that presently existed. The agreement could be better, he said, but the priority should be the fight against terrorism. If necessary, the Court could always consider the matter after the agreement had been adopted. In the light of these comments, President Cox proposed to hold the debate on the Boogerd-Quaak report as planned and hear from the Commission at that point on the issue of passing data to third countries. A vote on whether to proceed with action at the Court was held on Wednesday, 21 April. (See above). Press enquiries: Danny de Paepe (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73605 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42531 e-mail : libe-press@europarl.eu.int PNR report referred back to committee Johanna L.A. BOOGERD-QUAAK (ELDR, NL) Report on the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Community and the United States of America on the processing and transfer of PNR data by Air Carriers to the United States Department of Homeland Security, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection ( COM(2004) 190 – C5-0162/2004 – 2004/0064(CNS)) Doc.: A5-0271/2004 Procedure : Consultation Debate: 19/20.04.2004 Vote : 21.04.2004 Vote Parliament voted by 299 in favour, 218 against and 6 abstenstions to refer the Johanna L.A. BOOGERD-QUAAK (ELDR, NL) report on the transfer of passenger data back to the committee. The reasoning is that Parliament cannot endorse or reject the agreement as long as it does not know the European Court of Justice position on it. Press enquiries: Danny de Paepe (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 73605 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42531 e-mail : libe-press@europarl.eu.int Rejection of common expulsion flights Request from the Council for urgent