passage as soon as possible. Amendment 27 Article 7, paragraph 4 (Convention) 4. Persons detained shall be guaranteed the same rights as those enjoyed by nationals, especially the right to have an interpreter and be assisted by a lawyer . 4. Persons detained shall be guaranteed the same rights as those enjoyed by nationals of the State exercising its relevant jurisdiction , especially the right to a fair trial within the meaning of Article 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 4 November 1950 and Articles 47 and 48 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union . Amendment 28 Article 7, paragraph 5 (Convention) 5. The period of detention shall be subject to supervision by the courts and to the time limits laid down by the law of the intervening Member State. 5. The period of detention shall be subject to supervision by the courts and to the time limits laid down by the law of the intervening Member State. Persons not suspected of having committed an offence shall be released immediately and items that may not be used as evidence shall be returned. Amendment 29 Article 8, title (Convention) SURRENDER OF JURISDICTION PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE EXERCISE OF COMPETENCE Amendment 30 Article 8, paragraph 1 (Convention) 1. Each Member State shall have preferential jurisdiction over its vessels but may surrender it in favour of the intervening State. 1. Each Member State shall have preferential jurisdiction over vessels flying its flag but may surrender it in favour of the intervening State. Amendment 31 Article 8, paragraph 2 (Convention) 2. Before taking initial proceedings, the intervening State shall forward to the flag State by fax if possible or other means a summary of the evidence assembled pertaining to all the relevant offences committed, to which the flag State shall respond within one month stating whether it will exercise its jurisdiction or surrender it and possibly asking for further information should it deem it necessary. 2. Before taking initial proceedings, the intervening State shall forward to the flag State by fax if possible or other means a summary of the evidence assembled pertaining to all the relevant offences committed, to which the flag State shall respond within one month stating whether it will exercise its preferential jurisdiction or surrender it and possibly asking for further information should it deem it necessary. Amendment 32 Article 8, paragraph 3 (Convention) 3. If the time limit referred to in paragraph 2 has lapsed without any decision being notified, the flag Member State shall be deemed to have surrendered its jurisdiction. 3. If the time limit referred to in paragraph 2 has lapsed without any decision being notified, the flag Member State shall be deemed to have surrendered its preferential jurisdiction. Amendment 33 Article 8, paragraph 4 (Convention) 4. If the State whose flag is being flown by the vessel surrenders its preferential jurisdiction, it shall send the other Member State the information and documents in its possession. Should it decide to exercise its jurisdiction, the other State