ever vigilant. . Terrorism, Mr Kirkhope stated, "is an act of war on the fabric of our society. It is perpetrated by criminals and murderers who detest our liberal democracy and freedom. Terrorist groups must be banned and those who perpetrate violence, incite terrorism or give succour to terrorists should be tackled. In terms of the action that EU Member States can take together, we saw at the weekend the arrest of ETA bomb-makers. This shows that joint investigation teams add value to the anti-terrorism fight." "The security of the travelling public must be our prime concern. The concern of ourselves, of governments, airport operators and airlines. But, as with all legislation, improvements can be brought about in the light of experience and I believe there is a case, and a good one, for a review of how that is operating." At the same time we should rely fundamentally on available intelligence to assist legislators like ourselves in determining the nature and extent of the ongoing threat. He commended Commissioner Frattini's proposals which are positive in that respect. Mr Kirkhope appreciated that there is a delicate balance but, he concluded, we must always do what we can to protect our people from the evil and murderous intent of terrorism. Michael CASHMAN (PES,UK) welcomed the strategy review and tackling the roots of terrorism. Now above all, he stated, we need to act as 27 Member States, not separately, and act in conjunction with our allies, including the United States. The United States is not a problem. The attacks on the United States did not occur on September 11, they occurred before then, and an attack upon one is arguably an attack upon every single one of us. Proinsias DE ROSSA (PES, IE) strongly supported the demand for effective, efficient, balanced and accountable security at the European and international level in addressing terrorism. If we are, he said, to avoid feeding the threat, democratic accountability is essential to ensure balance and proportionality. But a security response, no matter how effective, is not sufficient. We must, he continued, address the international, political and economic injustices which certain demagogues are using to tap into a youthful hunger for justice. Their appeal, he said, is based on a tabloid history, a tabloid politics, which denies the nuances and contradictions which are integral to all of our political and religious traditions. The battle for hearts and minds requires us to avoid demonising whole communities of religious believers. It requires open dialogue, not confrontation, it requires us to address the real and perceived disconnection that some young people are experiencing. Europe's idea of 'unity through diversity' could help, but that requires courageous political leadership which unfortunately is sadly lacking at Council level. Concluding, Mr De Rossa appealed to the House to avoid sloppy language which implies sloppy thinking. Equating fundamentalism automatically with terrorism is sloppy thinking. There are, he said, millions upon millions of Catholics, Protestants, Jews and Muslims who believe literally in the old testament, in the new testament and the Koran, but they are not terrorists. There