Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (19 March 2007) The Commission is extremely concerned about the scale of human suffering caused by the ongoing violence inside Iraq, displacement within and out of Iraq and the impact this is having on the whole region. According to latest United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) estimates, out of a total population of 26 million, some 1.8 million Iraqis are currently displaced internally, while up to 2 million have fled to neighbouring countries. Another 50 000 people are leaving the country each month. Estimates of Iraqis displaced in the region include between 500 000 and 1 000 000 in Syria, up to 700 000 in Jordan and between 20 000 and 80 000 in Egypt. To help meet the needs generated by the crisis in Iraq, the Commission is preparing a financial decision of EUR 6.2 million for refugees who have fled to neighbouring countries such as Syria, Jordan and Lebanon. Focusing on the most vulnerable groups, the aid will consist of basic healthcare and education as well as targeted distributions of food and essential household items. Protection activities are also envisaged, in particular, support for the UNHCR refugee registration system in order to identify the most destitute refugees and to assess their specific needs. The focus of the funding will be on the two main recipients of refugees, namely Jordan and Syria. At the end of 2006, EUR 10 million were allocated to support internally displaced persons via the UN (through the International Reconstruction Trust Fund Facility for Iraq). Furthermore, the Commission is currently providing, through the Aeneas programme, EUR 1 million for actions implemented by UNHCR in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, which are the countries where the vast majority of Iraqi refugees are hosted. The objective is to enhance protection, to provide targeted emergency assistance to the most vulnerable Iraqi refugees and to prepare refugees for resettlement. For 2007, EUR 1.5 million have been allocated under the Aeneas programme for projects aimed at enhancing, inter alia , protection capacities in Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Turkey, Lebanon, and Egypt. Projects are currently under selection. In addition, the Commission has announced that an initial funding package of around EUR 4 million is being drawn up for humanitarian aid for the people suffering inside Iraq. This will be based on a careful assessment of priority needs and will take into account the difficulties of the highly volatile security environment.