of the breach of natural justice by the FOS " (WE 83 Page 72. ). Secondly, as regards the Ombudsman's decision itself, Lord NEILL recalls that one of the reasons he stated for dismissing the complaints was that " there was a possibility that if relief were to be granted " it could result in a " stalemate " because "some major scheme of rearrangement of fund values would be necessary " which " would have to be implemented by an unwilling FSA " (WE 83 Page 41. ). Lord NEILL suggests that " it is not known upon what evidence " the Ombudsman made these decisions because " he did not disclose it " (WE 83 Pages 72 and 73. ). Complainants therefore " obviously ... could not comment on unknown opinions expressed by the FSA " (Lord NEILL, H11). He contends that the FOS's decision " is the most striking example of an absence of independence " of the FOS (WE 83 Page 74. ). Corroborating this point, Lord NEILL quotes from an internal Treasury e-mail which referred to a statement by the FSA " the main purpose " of which would be " to provide the FOS with a basis for considering complaints relating to over-allocation " (WE 86 Page 10. ). He concludes that " the decision [by the FOS] could reasonably be regarded by policyholders as one dictated to the FOS by the FSA and as one with disastrous financial consequences for thousands of ordinary people who were waiting upon his ruling " (WE 86 Page 9. ). Lord NEILL also emphasised that the FOS's decision was inconsistent with statements made on the day of the publication of the Penrose report and afterwards by the then Financial Secretary to the Treasury, Ruth Kelly For ministerial statements concerning the availability of the FOS to handle complaints arising out of the Penrose report, see WE 83, pages 25-29. , who " repeatedly assured MPs that the FOS was standing ready to handle complaints based on the Penrose report and had the necessary resources to do so " (WE 86 Page 7. ). Overall, Lord NEILL concluded in the following way: " The policyholders whose cases I have studied could reasonably conclude that the service provided by the Financial Ombudsman Service fell short of the standards which they were entitled to expect (these being the standards which the Service had itself proclaimed and advertised). ... Policyholders who had Penrose-related claims (concerning the allocation and payment of excessive bonuses) had good reason to be dismayed by the Chief Ombudsman's dismissal of their claims without considering their merits, both as regards the process by which he reached his decision and as to its content " (WE 83 Page 84. ). Chief Ombudsman Mr MERRICKS had the following to say in his initial reaction to Lord NEILL's report (WE 87): " Lord Neill examined only 30 cases of the 8,000 that we have completed. These 30 cases were solicited by the Action Group which asked its members for instances where they believed they