31). According to him, EU law should be amended to allow EU investors or non-EU purchasers/investors in EU financial services products to bring a type of group or class action in member state courts to recover losses arising from violations of EU financial services legislation. Mr ALEXANDER pointed out the need to establish uniform procedural requirements for class action lawsuits across the EU: " I think you would want to make sure [that] procedurally it could be done in a way where it is somewhat uniform on an EU basis; otherwise one Member State might be seen as the class action haven, where all the class actions are brought " (WS 2). However, he points out that it would be " a major challenge politically for member states to accept changes to their civil court rules [although] it would only apply to claims based on EU law rights " (WE-FILE 31 Page 3. ). Mr ALEXANDER stressed that "US-style class action law suits have attracted much negative attention in the British and European media. He warned that class action in an EU context should be designed in a way that avoids " extreme abuses " as they appear to occur in the US: " In the US it is so easy for lawyers to certify a class and just get a few named representatives to cut a deal with a defendant bank [so] that everyone else doesn't have much input. ... So there are problems in the US system which you'd want to be careful to avoid " (WS2). Hence, " EU policymakers should examine the procedural mechanisms in place in EU jurisdictions and propose a class action remedy that can certify the class for a civil action for losses arising from breach of EU financial services legislation based on the broader requirement under English law that allows for a group action if the claimants have ‘common or related issues of fact or law’ " (WE-FILE 31 Page 4. ). The committee agrees that it would be necessary for the possible advantages and disadvantages of introducing a legal framework with uniform procedural requirements for European cross-border class action lawsuits in financial services to be thoroughly examined. XII. The need to compensate Equitable Life victims It should be recalled that Equitable Life victims are not investors willing to take risks for the prospect of attractive returns. Rather they prudently set aside money for their retirement with a highly reputable Society, which led them to believe that their investment was absolutely safe. These policyholders were entitled to expect from the UK Government thorough and rigorous supervision of all financial services providers that offer such sensitive products as life assurance and private pensions, including Equitable Life. This holds true especially in the light of growing tendencies among European governments based on population trends to urge their citizens not to rely on state pensions but to purchase private schemes instead . It is one of the major objectives of the Third Life Directive to ensure " adequate protection " See for instance Recitals 2 and 4