Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (18 October 2004) The Commission refers the Honourable Member to the impact assessment fiche annexed to the proposal for a Directive on working conditions for temporary workers, which it presented to the Parliament and the Council on 20 March 2002 OJ C 203E, 27.8.2002 . Whilst the Commission noted therein the heterogeneity and diversity of the sector as well as the limited availability of comprehensive, harmonised statistical data in the Member States, it made the following points: On the whole, the actual changes required by the proposed Directive will in some areas and Member States be limited because its provisions mainly codify rules which are already common practice and are enshrined in national legislation, collective agreements or codes of conduct. Given that the Directive will entail only very limited changes in the regulatory framework, any costs induced by it would on all accounts remain limited. In any case, wage costs are only one element for the assessment of the implications of the Directive, but constitute undoubtedly the most direct effect for enterprises. This assessment has also to take into account other elements such as the possible increase of the productivity of agency workers and the improvement of their employment quality, as a result of the proposed Directive's provisions on non-discrimination, training, access to social facilities and information of workers' representatives regarding the use of agency work in the user enterprise. Even where some changes may be required, the actual effects would be mitigated by the substantial flexibility offered by the Directive, in particular as regards the derogations to the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of collective agreements as well as in the case of agency workers with open-ended contracts. Moreover, the proposed Directive represents a fair balance between flexibility and job security and is, thus, an important element in creating an appropriate legal framework for the continued expansion of the agency sector. The establishment of minimum protective rules has as its counterpart the lifting of the unjustified existing restrictions and prohibitions of agency work. In conclusion, the Commission considers that the proposal would help to realise the full employment potential of the sector in Europe. It would improve the social acceptance of temporary agency work and should make it more attractive. The availability especially of workers with higher qualifications and more diversified skills should encourage more user enterprises to employ temporary workers. This would allow agencies to recruit their workers from a larger pool of candidates and to expand into new areas. Globally, the proposal would have positive effects on total employment and on temporary agency workers productivity. The Commission would like to add that the Parliament endorsed the Commission's approach in its opinion at the first reading on 21 November 2002, following which the Commission presented an amended proposal taking up a substantial number of the Parliament's amendments.