WRITTEN QUESTION E-2951/10 by Oriol Junqueras Vies (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (3 May 2010) Subject: Maritime transport in the Ría de Vigo (Galicia, Spain) The Commission's reply to the Xunta de Galicia concerning European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 OJ L 315, 3.12.2007, p. 1 . of 23 October 2007 on public passenger transport services by rail and by road states that some of the Regulation's provisions apply to domestic maritime transport integrated into a public transport network, and mean that a public service can be provided only if: the market is insufficient; we are dealing with a service integrated into the local transport network; we are dealing with passenger transport, with the possibility of providing an exclusive service by sea in domestic waters as a form of back-up for urban and suburban transport services. All of these conditions apply to the Ría de Vigo in Galicia, which forms part of the local transport network, where passenger transport is carried out, mostly for work-related travel. For that reason, the Commission envisages the possibility that transport in the Ría de Vigo could be deemed to be a public service. With the entry into force of this legislation, the Xunta de Galicia should have acted on the commitment the legislation entails, by opening a public procurement procedure in accordance with the Regulation in order to make this public maritime transport service operational. To date, the Xunta has done nothing about this service, it has failed to subsidise transport for consumers and neglected to regulate the situation, which has had serious consequences for those affected, in terms of both the quality and cost of the service, exacerbated by the difficult situation in the area due to the socio-economic crisis. Is the Commission aware of the current transport situation in the Ría de Vigo? Has the Xunta de Galicia forwarded the preliminary draft of the Galician Maritime Transport Law that will establish the new legal framework for transport in accordance with the Community Regulation? When does the Commission intend to make public its assessment of compliance with Community legislation?