pay sufficient attention to the need for environmental initiatives aimed at, for instance, facilitating a suitable programme for stock restoration which would at one and the same time benefit the ecosystem and raise income and employment levels in the sector. In fact, the communication, where it speaks of the interaction between the fisheries sector and the environment, does little more than list the presumed harmful effects of fisheries on the environment (overfishing of commercial stocks, threats to biodiversity and marine ecosystems, overcapacity of the Community fleets, continued risks associated with aquaculture), and makes little reference to certain environmental measures which, if adopted, could directly benefit the fisheries sector (improvement of coastal areas, creation of restocking and nursery zones, protected marine areas, investment in research). A further consequence of this approach is the Commission's continued stress on the present situation of overfishing and excessive fishing effort arising from fleet overcapacity. The Commission takes the view that the problems can be resolved almost exclusively by reducing the number of vessels and cutting back the workforce: it continues to promote this line without being aware of the deep-running contradiction between the conviction with which it makes such statements and its own, in-context admission of uncertainty in the face of the 'lack of scientific knowledge about the functioning of marine ecosystems and the side-effects of fishing'. There is no doubt that the overfishing problem is real. Nonetheless, given the difficult circumstances of the sector, it appears necessary to draw up fresh proposals as an alternative to the simplistic solution of decommissioning vessels and forcing fishermen to abandon the sector - especially as accompanying or support measures are either non-existent or totally inadequate. The Commission states that 'there is no doubt that integration will have economic and social consequences' (with the sector asked to pay a price in terms of resources and unemployment). However, there is still no cofinanced social intervention plan based on the principle of subsidiarity for actions at Member State level; nor is it recognised that serious obstacles exist to the wholesale retraining of fishermen, in the form of low educational levels and high average age. In the absence of compensation mechanisms, there is a risk that in some geographical areas cuts on their own will have no benefits for the environment or the stocks. This has already happened in the case of the total ban on certain types of tackle (we refer to the driftnets case) in the Mediterranean, where driftnet use by the Community vessels has been outlawed (approximate numbers of this type of vessel in the Italian fleet have fallen from 650 to 100), while the number of third-country vessels employing driftnets in the same waters has risen to 500. The Commission says that 'the Common Fisheries Policy has traditionally dealt with environmental matters in a reactive way, when they become a major problem', and promises the adoption of an environmental strategy for fisheries problems. This points up the faulty reasoning at the heart of the Community's approach. It is crystal-clear to operators in the sector that if the binary relationship