inform the authorising officer by delegation in writing and, if the latter fails to take action, the panel referred to in Article 66(4). In the event of any illegal activity, fraud or corruption which may harm the interests of the Community, he/she shall inform the authorities and bodies designated by the applicable legislation. 7. The authorising officer by delegation shall report to his/her institution on the performance of his/her duties in the form of an annual activity report together with financial and management information. This report shall indicate the results of the operations by reference to the objectives set, the risks associated with these operations, the use made of the resources provided and the way the internal control system functions. The internal auditor shall take note of the annual report and any other pieces of information identified. The Commission shall no later than 15 June each year send to the budgetary authority a summary of the annual reports for the previous year. Section 3 Accounting officer Article 61 1. Each institution shall appoint an accounting officer who shall be responsible in each institution for: a) proper implementation of payments, collection of revenue and recovery of amounts established as being receivable; b) preparing and presenting the accounts in accordance with Title VII; c) keeping the accounts in accordance with Title VII; d) laying down, in accordance with Title VII, the accounting rules and methods and the chart of accounts; e) laying down and validating the accounting systems and where appropriate validating systems laid down by the authorising officer to supply or justify accounting information; f) treasury management. 2. The accounting officer shall obtain from authorising officers, who shall guarantee its reliability, all the information necessary for the production of accounts which give a true image of the Communities' assets and of budgetary implementation. 3. Save as otherwise provided in this Regulation, the accounting officer is alone empowered to manage monies and other assets. He shall be responsible for their safekeeping. Article 62 The accounting officer may, in the performance of his duties, delegate certain tasks to subordinates subject to the Staff Regulations. The instrument of delegation shall lay down the tasks entrusted to the delegatees. Section 4 Imprest administrator Article 63 For the payment of small sums and for the collection of revenue other than own resources, imprest accounts may be set up which shall be endowed by the institution's accounting officer and shall be placed under the responsibility of imprest administrators designated by the institution's accounting officer. CHAPTER 4 Liability of the financial actors Section 1 General rules Article 64 1. Without prejudice to any disciplinary action, authorising officers by delegation and subdelegation may at any time have their delegation or subdelegation withdrawn temporarily or definitively by the authority which appointed them. 2. Without prejudice to any disciplinary action, the accounting officer may at any time be suspended temporarily or definitively from his/her duties by the authority which appointed him/her. 3. Without prejudice to any disciplinary action, imprest administrators may at any time be suspended temporarily or definitively from their duties by