linguistique." H10 Verbatim, page 10, para.3-4. It is clear that the Commission can only perform adequate monitoring of transposition of the highest of standards if it has more means at its disposal. In the case of the Third Life Directive, the lack of resources made it necessary to contract external consultants, who produced an incomplete study of poor quality as is shown in Part II of this report. It must be stressed, however, that the Commission failed to supervise the work of the external consultants in a way that would have ensured a satisfactory analysis of the Member States' transposition of the Third life Directive. Complementary methods used to improve transposition In recent years, the Commission appears to have made increasing use of complementary methods to ex-post verification, in order to guarantee correct transposition of directives. First of all, before the actual process of monitoring transposition is dealt with, mention must be made of the procedure that is applied before laws are adopted. Quality legislative drafting is necessary for proper implementation. As expressed by Mrs. DURAND " during the development of Directives, legislators must already think of the practical implications of the law, and must incorporate suitable provisions that make the law coherent and applicable in practice ". During this process, extensive consultations with the public and other stakeholders are of the essence. Mrs MINOR referred to the importance of involving national regulators in the preparation of EU legislation: " The idea behind having supervisors and regulators provide technical advice in the course of preparation of regulatory measures is that they will understand what those measures are going to achieve. They also feel ownership for the rules which are subsequently adopted because they have been adopted by a process in which the regulators, the people who will have to apply them, were involved from the outset ." Moreover, efforts are being made to intensify and structure the dialogue with Member States during the transposition period. This allows for the exchange of good practices and gives support to national authorities to guarantee proper transposition of EU acts. To this effect, information-gathering exercises were undertaken amongst Member States and resulted, as clarified by Mrs MINOR " in a Recommendation on transposition, adopted and published by the Commission in July 2004. It contains a list of 27 practices which have been found effective as a means of quality transposition. It includes, for example, allocating the responsibility for coordinating Community affairs, and more specifically the transposition process, to a senior member of the government; designating within the national administration a body which monitors the implementation process on a permanent basis; and involving the national parliament at all stages in the legislative process, both before and after the adoption of the directive" . Mrs MINOR added that " we make great efforts to assist and support Member States during the ‘transposition period’ in the course of implementing directives ... working very actively with Member States to try and iron out any residual differences of interpretation, ambiguities or questions as to how different provisions within the directive ought