of the family members concerned. Amendment 44 Article 6, paragraph 4 4. Renewal of the residence permit may not be withheld and removal from the territory may not be ordered by the competent authority of the Member State concerned on the sole ground of illness or disability suffered after the issue of the residence permit. 4. Renewal of the residence permit may not be withheld and removal from the territory may not be ordered by the competent authority of the Member State concerned on the ground of illness or disability suffered after the issue of the residence permit. Amendment 45 Article 7, title (new) Requirements of accommodation, sickness insurance and material resources Amendment 79 Article 7, paragraph 1, point (c), subparagraph 2 The Member State may require the applicant to satisfy the conditions set out in paragraph 1 when renewing the residence permits of his family members for the first time . The Member State may also require the applicant to satisfy the conditions set out in paragraph 1 when renewing the residence permits of his family members. Amendment 46 Article 8, title (new) Duration of residence Amendment 47 Article 8, paragraph 1 The Member States may require the applicant to have stayed lawfully in their territory for a period not exceeding two years , before having his family members join him. The Member States may require the applicant to have stayed lawfully in their territory for a continuous period not exceeding one year , before having his family members join him. Amendment 48 Article 8, paragraph 2 By way of derogation, where the legislation of a Member State relating to family reunification in force on the date of adoption of this Directive has regard for its reception capacity, the Member State may provide for a waiting period of no more than three years between submission of the application for family reunification and the issue of a residenc e permit to the family members. Deleted Amendment 49 Article 9, title (new) Scope concerning refugees Amendment 50 Article 10, title (new) Family members Amendment 51 Article 11, title (new) Submission and examination of the application Amendment 52 Article 12, title (new) Requirements of accommodation, sickness insurance, financial resources and duration of residence Amendment 53 Article 13, title (new) General provisions concerning residence documents Amendment 54 Article 13, paragraph 1 1. As soon as the application for family reunification has been accepted, the Member State concerned shall authorise the entry of the family member or members. In that regard, Member States shall grant such persons every facility for obtaining the requisite visas. 1. As soon as the application for family reunification has been accepted, the Member State concerned shall authorise the entry of the family member or members. In that regard, Member States shall grant such persons every facility for obtaining the requisite visas , including transit visas . Amendment 55 Article 14, title (new) Equal treatment Amendment 56 Article 15, title (new) Autonomous residence permit Amendment 57 Article 15, paragraph 1 1. At the latest after five years of residence, and provided the