Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (7 May 2007) The Commission would like to inform the Honourable Member that the test report has been drafted by the Dutch Transport and Water Management Inspectorate, section Road Goods Transport Report 207/191206/0900/6029/ATB, ‘Investigation rounding off data digital tachograph’, Transport and Water Management Inspectorate Netherlands, Section Road Goods Transport, 19 December 2006. . It describes a field test comparing the activities recorded by the digital and the analogue tachograph during an average journey, with 13 stops over a total period of 6 hours and 56 minutes, over a total distance of 138 kilometres. The Dutch test only took into account stops made for loading and unloading of goods (deliveries). Stops made in traffic jams or for a red light, for example, were not taken into account, since in such situations the driver remains behind the steering wheel, practically carrying out a driving activity. In the end, the test showed that the digital tachograph recorded six minutes more driving time than the analogue tachograph. The recommendation to allow a tolerance of 15 minutes for vehicles equipped with a digital tachograph has been made by a working group of enforcement officers in the framework of the MIDT Monitoring of the implementation of the digital tachograph. project. Based on its practical experience on the enforcement of rules on drivers' hours and on information provided by the report of the Dutch Transport and Water Management Inspectorate, the working group proposed a safe margin of tolerance of 15 minutes. The recommendation has been reported to the representatives of all the Member States during a plenary meeting of the MIDT project in December 2006. The MIDT project has been set up by the Swedish Road Administration and is co-sponsored by the Commission. The aim of this project, which started in 2005 and will end in 2008, is to support and monitor the process of implementation of the digital tachograph in the Member States. In the framework of this project experts are discussing practical issues, including the actual issue on the recording of driving time. The Commission wishes to underline that recommendations of the MIDT project produce no legal effects as such. The Commission is carrying out a full assessment of the situation. In the case this assessment would lead to modifications of the relevant legislation, they will be either based on Article 71 of the Treaty or on the comitology rules, which will ensure the prerogatives of Parliament.