differences have developed and could become greater as Member States adopt new and different administrative practices, or where national case law interpreting the current legislation evolves differently. (4) The steady increase in the distribution and use of computer programs in all fields of technology and in their world-wide distribution via the Internet is a critical factor in technological innovation. It is therefore necessary to ensure that an optimum environment exists for developers and users of computer programs in the Community. (5) Therefore, the legal rules governing the patentability of computer-implemented inventions should be harmonised so as to ensure that the resulting legal certainty and the level of requirements demanded for patentability enable innovative enterprises to derive the maximum advantage from their inventive process and provide an incentive for investment and innovation. Legal certainty will also be secured by the fact that, in case of doubt as to the interpretation of this Directive, national courts may, and national courts of last instance must, seek a ruling from the Court of Justice of the European Communities. (6) The rules of the Convention on the Grant of European Patents signed in Munich on 5 October 1973, and in particular Article 52 thereof concerning the limits to patentability, should be confirmed and clarified. The consequent legal certainty should help to foster a climate conducive to investment and innovation in the field of software. (7) Under the Convention and the patent laws of the Member States, programs for computers together with discoveries, scientific theories, mathematical methods, aesthetic creations, schemes, rules and methods for performing mental acts, playing games or doing business, and presentations of information are expressly not regarded as inventions and are therefore excluded from patentability. This exception applies because such subject-matter and activities do not belong to a field of technology. (8) The aim of this Directive is not to amend the aforementioned Convention, but to prevent different interpretations of its provisions. (9) In its Resolution of 30 March 2000 on the decision by the European Patent Office with regard to patent No EP 695 351 granted on 8 December 1999 OJ C 378, 29.12.2000, p. 95. , the European Parliament once again called for a review of the Office's operating rules to ensure that it was publicly accountable in the exercise of its functions. In this connection it would be particularly desirable to reconsider the practice whereby the Office sees fit to obtain payment for the patents that it grants, as this practice harms the public nature of the institution. ( 10 ) Patent protection allows innovators to benefit from their creativity. Patent rights protect innovation in the interests of society as a whole, and should not be used in a manner which is anti-competitive. ( 11 ) In accordance with Council Directive 91/250/EEC of 14 May 1991 on the legal protection of computer programs OJ L 122 , 17.5.1991, p. 42. Directive amended by Directive 93/98/EEC (OJ L 290, 24.11.1993, p. 9). , the expression in any form of an original computer program is protected by copyright as a literary work. However, ideas