it. Article 78 1. When adopting a budgetary commitment, the authorising officer responsible shall ensure that: a) the expenditure has been charged to the correct item in the budget; b) the appropriations are available; c) the expenditure conforms to the provisions of the Treaties, of the budget, of this Regulation, of the implementing rules and of all acts adopted in accordance with the Treaties and regulations; d) the principle of sound financial management is complied with. 2. When registering a legal commitment, the authorising officer shall ensure that: a) the commitment is covered by the corresponding budgetary commitment; b) the expenditure is regular and conforms to the provisions of the Treaties, of the budget, of this Regulation, of the implementing rules and of all acts adopted in accordance with the Treaties and the regulations; c) the principle of sound financial management is respected. Section 2 Validation of expenditure Article 79 Validation of expenditure is the act whereby the authorising officer responsible: a) verifies the existence of the creditor's entitlement; b) determines or verifies the reality and the amount of the claim; c) verifies the conditions in which payment is due. Section 3 Authorisation of expenditure Article 80 Authorisation of expenditure is the act whereby the authorising officer responsible, having verified that the appropriations are available and by issuing a payment order, instructs the accounting officer to pay an amount of expenditure which he/she has validated. Section 4 Payment of expenditure Article 81 1. Payment shall be made on production of proof that the relevant action is in accordance with the provisions of the basic act or the contract and shall cover one or more of the following operations: a) payment of the entire amount due; b) payment of the amount due in any of the following ways: i) pre-financing, which may be divided into a number of payments; ii) one or more interim payments; iii) payment of the balance of the amounts due. 2. A distinction shall be made in the accounts between the different types of payment referred to in paragraph 1 at the time they are made. Article 82 Payment of expenditure shall be made by the accounting officer within the limits of the funds available. Section 5 Time limits for expenditure operations Article 83 The validation, authorisation and payment of expenditure must be completed within the time limits laid down in the implementing rules, which shall also specify the circumstances in which creditors paid late are entitled to receive default interest charged to the line from which the principal was paid. CHAPTER 7 IT systems Article 84 Where revenue and expenditure operations are managed by means of computer systems, documents may be signed by a computerised or electronic procedure. CHAPTER 8 Internal auditor Article 85 Each institution shall establish an internal auditing function which must be performed in compliance with the relevant international standards. The internal auditor appointed by the institution shall be answerable to the latter for verifying the proper operation of budgetary implementation systems and procedures. The internal auditor may not be either authorising officer or accounting