the SPE shall draw up a report to the shareholders explaining and justifying the legal and economic aspects of the proposed transfer and setting out the implications of the transfer for shareholders, creditors and employees. The report shall be submitted to the shareholders and the employee representatives, or where there are no such representatives, to the employees themselves together with the transfer proposal. 3. The executive management body of the SPE shall draw up a report to the shareholders explaining and justifying the legal and economic aspects of the proposed transfer and setting out the implications of the transfer for shareholders, creditors and employees. The report shall be submitted to the shareholders and the employee representatives, or where there are no such representatives, to the employees themselves together with the transfer proposal. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 59 Proposal for a regulation Article 36 – paragraph 3 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Where the management body receives in time the opinion of the employee representatives on the transfer, that opinion shall be submitted to the shareholders. Where the executive management body receives in time the opinion of the employee representatives on the transfer, that opinion shall be submitted to the shareholders. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Article 42 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Member States in which the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply may require SPEs having their registered office in their territory to express their capital in the national currency. An SPE may also express its capital in euro. The national currency/euro conversion rate shall be as on the last day of the month preceding the registration of the SPE. 1. Member States in which the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply may require SPEs having their registered office in their territory to express their capital in the national currency. Such SPEs shall, in addition, express their capital in euro. The national currency/euro conversion rate shall be as on the last day of the month preceding the registration of the SPE. Justification It is more appropriate for SPEs having their registered office in territory of a MS with a national currency different from the Euro to foresee the possibility to express its capital both in the national currency and in Euro. Amendment 6 1 Proposal for a regulation Article 42 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. An SPE may prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts in euro in Member States where the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply. However such Member States may also require SPEs to prepare and publish their annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts in the national currency in accordance with the applicable national law. 2. An SPE shall prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts both in the national currency and in euro in Member States where the third phase of the economic