Answer given by Mr Verheugen on behalf of the Commission (7 May 2008) The Commission is fully aware of the risks for public health through counterfeit medicinal products. With regard to the custom statistics produced by the Commission relating to seizures of fake goods in 2006, 31 % of the seized fake medicines came from India, 31 % from the United Arab Emirates and 20 % from China. The Commission takes these risks very seriously and considers the fight against counterfeit medicines as imperative for public health and a top political priority. Consequently, the Commission has taken a number of measures over the past years: Firstly, the Commission has taken measures to effectively prevent the import of counterfeit products through strengthening customs controls at the external borders of the EU in the framework of the Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 of 22 July 2003 concerning customs action against goods suspected of infringing certain intellectual property rights and the measures to be taken against goods found to have infringed such rights OJ L 196, 2.8.2003. . In addition a seminar was organised in 2007 for customs and right holders in the pharmaceutical industry to strengthen the cooperation between the two sides and improve the control of counterfeit medicines at the external frontier of the EU. Secondly, the Commission is presently considering a legal proposal to address the risks from counterfeit medicines. A public consultation has been launched http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/pharmaceuticals/pharmacos/docs/doc2008/2008_03/consult_counterfeit_20080307.pdf . The key ideas set out therein specifically address issues linked to importation of counterfeit medicines, such as strengthening the system of inspections of third country manufacturers and the requirements for importers to verify compliance of the manufacturer with Community rules on good manufacturing practices. Thirdly, the Commission has strengthened bilateral contacts with numerous third countries aiming at addressing the risk of counterfeit medicinal products. For example, in the framework of the cooperation and dialogue established between the EU and China on intellectual property rights (IPR) issues, the Commission insists on the need to fully respect IPR and to effectively combat counterfeiting and piracy, including counterfeiting of medicinal products.