a national or regional institutional framework, including regulation for the redistribution of social and economical wealth, the absence of external financial conditionalities that paralyse the actions of the government; - the possibility to act with flexibility in order to choose how much to open an economical sector that is strong enough to resist market opening; - the use of non reciprocal approaches with unequal trade partners; - the existence of financial capacity of the state to support some sectors of the economy prior to market opening; this capacity is very much diminished if there is a big external debt to pay. The opening of borders to international trade involves important adjustment problems and there is evidence that poor countries are not as well placed to protect themselves against adverse effects and take advantage of opportunities. As has been the case in the building of Europe through the cohesion funds, it is necessary to foresee contractually adequate funding for developing countries while asking them to open markets to industrialised countries. This would allow these countries to establish the institutionally adequate framework, to prepare their economies to competition with foreign players, and to organise the replacement of the income they lose by lowering their border-tariffs. Unfortunately the automatic application of market opening has already caused enormous damages in terms of poverty. In many countries, accelerated liberalisation has worsened the conditions of poverty of the population. Liberalisation has been made in multilateral agreements or, more often, in the framework of bilateral agreements or under conditions linked to engagements with international finance institutions. Trade negotiations especially critical for the poor There are some areas where some changes, even small, in the current orientation of international trade negotiations could do a lot of difference for the poor. Small improvements in trade negotiations affecting environment, agriculture and commodities, public services and health, industrialisation, have provided enormous gains, especially to women and children, and towards the completion of the MDG’s. Environment It is impossible today to ignore the effects of the current globalisation and production systems on the environment. But as these problems affect everybody, it is important to stress that poor people are the first affected by the destruction of the environment. "Prudence must be shown in the management of all living species and natural resources, in accordance with the precepts of sustainable development. Only in this way can the immeasurable riches provided to us by nature be preserved and passed on to our descendants. The current unsustainable patterns of production and consumption must be changed in the interest of our future welfare and that of our descendants. " United Nations Millennium Declaration, 2000 Examples are many: For instance, 90 % of fishermen worldwide, 40 million people, are employed in small scale artisanal fishing and are overwhelmingly poor. Liberalisation of fishing is directly threatening them of their livelihoods. For this reason the current trade negotiations at the WTO and in bilateral trade agreements should be reviewed in order to prevent the complete liberalisation of markets in areas such as forest products, fish and fish products, water extraction and