amended by Regulation (EC) No 2061/96 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 277, 30.10.1996, p. 1). *** OJ L 160, 12.6.1989, p. 1. Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 3378/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 366, 31.12.1994, p. 1). c) the following point shall be added to paragraph 4(c): iv) substances which are not additives but are used in the same way and with the same purpose as processing aids and are still present in the finished product, even if in altered form. d) the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 shall be amended as follows: i) the fourth indent shall be replaced by the following: – where fruit, vegetables or mushrooms, none of which significantly predominates in terms of weight and which are used in proportions that are likely to vary, are used in a mixture as ingredients of a foodstuff, they may be grouped together in the list of ingredients under the designation "fruit", "vegetables" or "mushrooms" followed by the phrase "in varying proportions", immediately followed by a list of the fruit, vegetables or mushrooms present; in such cases, the mixture shall be included in the list of ingredients in accordance with the first subparagraph, on the basis of the total weight of the fruit, vegetables or mushrooms present, ii) the following indents shall be added: – ingredients constituting less than 2% of the finished product may be listed in a different order after the other ingredients, – where ingredients which are similar or mutually substitutable are likely to be used in the manufacture or preparation of a foodstuff without altering its composition, its nature or its perceived value, and in so far as they constitute less than 2% of the finished product, they may be referred to in the list of ingredients by means of the phrase "contains ... and/or ...", where at least one of no more than two ingredients is present in the finished product. This provision shall not apply to additives or to ingredients listed in Annex IIIa. e) the second subparagraph of paragraph 8 shall be replaced by the following: The list referred to in the first subparagraph shall not be compulsory: a) where the composition of the compound ingredient is defined in current Community legislation, and in so far as the compound ingredient constitutes less than 2% of the finished product; however, this provision shall not apply to additives, subject to paragraph 4(c), b) for compound ingredients consisting of mixtures of spices and/or herbs that constitute less than 2% of the finished product, with the exception of additives, subject to paragraph 4(c), c) where the compound ingredient is a foodstuff for which a list of ingredients is not required under Community legislation. f) the following paragraphs shall be added: 10. Notwithstanding paragraph 2, the second subparagraph of paragraph 6 and the second subparagraph of paragraph 8, any ingredient used in production of a foodstuff and still present in the finished product, even if in altered form, and listed in Annex IIIa or originating from