elected parliament of the GDR - led by the former president of that parliament, Sabine Bergmann-Pohl - who had taken their seats in the distinguished visitors' gallery. 20 One-minute speeches on matters of political importance (continuation) The following spoke: Jim Higgins , Vladimír Maňka , Eoin Ryan , Milan Horáček , József Szájer , Kristian Vigenin , Nicolae Vlad Popa and Gábor Harangozó . 21 EMU@10: The first 10 years of Economic and Monetary Union and future challenges (debate) Report: on the EMU@10: The first ten years of Economic and Monetary Union and future challenges [ 2008/2156(INI) ] - Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Co-rapporteurs: Pervenche Berès and Werner Langen ( A6-0420/2008 ) Pervenche Berès and Werner Langen introduced the report. The following spoke: Joaquín Almunia (Member of the Commission) and Jean-Claude Juncker (President of the Eurogroup). The following spoke: Jean-Pierre Audy (rapporteur for the opinion of the INTA Committee) . IN THE CHAIR: Mario MAURO Vice-President The following spoke: Karsten Friedrich Hoppenstedt , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Elisa Ferreira , on behalf of the PSE Group, Wolf Klinz , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Eoin Ryan , on behalf of the UEN Group, Pierre Jonckheer , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Sahra Wagenknecht , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Nils Lundgren , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Roger Helmer , Non-attached Member , Ján Hudacký , Antolín Sánchez Presedo , Margarita Starkevičiūtė , Dariusz Maciej Grabowski , Kyriacos Triantaphyllides , Hanne Dahl , Andreas Mölzer , Othmar Karas , Olle Schmidt , Zbigniew Krzysztof Kuźmiuk , Jens Holm , Zsolt László Becsey , Vladimír Maňka , Danutė Budreikaitė , Ryszard Czarnecki , Margaritis Schinas , Manuel António dos Santos , Jim Higgins , Dariusz Rosati , Paolo Bartolozzi and Sirpa Pietikäinen . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Zita Pleštinská , Silvia-Adriana Ţicău , Vittorio Prodi , Gay Mitchell , Gerard Batten , Dragoş Florin David , Christopher Beazley and Kurt Joachim Lauk . The following spoke: Joaquín Almunia , Jean-Claude Juncker , Pervenche Berès and Werner Langen . The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 18.11.2008, item 7.16 . 22 Application of the principle of equal pay for men and women (debate) Report: with recommendations to the Commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women [ 2008/2012(INI) ] - Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. Rapporteur: Edit Bauer ( A6-0389/2008 ) Edit Bauer introduced the report. IN THE CHAIR: Marek SIWIEC Vice-President The following spoke: Vladimír Špidla (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Donata Gottardi (rapporteur for the opinion of the EMPL Committee), Anna Záborská , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Lissy Gröner , on behalf of the PSE Group, Siiri Oviir , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Hiltrud Breyer , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Ilda Figueiredo , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Urszula Krupa , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group, Gabriele Stauner , Teresa Riera Madurell , Marco Cappato , Eva-Britt Svensson , Godfrey Bloom , Zita