35 from Romania, each of whom was received individually by the President. Mr Borrell said it was "with great pleasure and emotion" that he welcomed the new Members. He pointed out that there were now 785 MEPs in the House, from 27 countries, and that 177 political parties were now represented in the EP. The Bulgarian and Romanian MEPs have been appointed for the present by their national parliaments but in a few months' time both countries will hold elections to enable their citizens to choose their own representatives. Mr Borrell said that on recent visits to the two countries he had "witnessed their enthusiasm for Europe", which he found reassuring "given the euroscepticism in our countries and capitals". Seeing the new Member States as a clear source of strength to the EU, he said "You bring us your history, your culture, your faith in Europe" and also "you are bringing us a new perspective on our nearest neighbours". At the same time, he added "all your worries are of even more concern to us today than they were yesterday" and he took the opportunity "to make a fresh appeal to the Libyan Government" over the fate of the Bulgarian nurses sentenced to death in Libya. The welcoming ceremony closed with the playing of the European anthem, the Ode to Joy. Condemnation of ETA bombing in Madrid - minute of silence The President then alluded to the bomb attack by ETA in Madrid, in which two Ecuadorean immigrants had died. In the name of Parliament, he sent condolences to the families of the victims and to the states of Spain and Ecuador, and added that the act must be condemned. He said "Democracy cannot be accompanied by violence" and "peace and respect for human rights are not negotiable". The House observed a minute's silence. New political group: Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty The President then announced that, in accordance with Rule 29 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, a new political group had been formed, with the title Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty (ITS). The group met the minimum numerical requirements laid down in that rule, since it had 20 Members from 6 different Member States. Martin Schulz (PES, DE), leader of the Socialist Group, argued that the group did not meet another requirement, namely that its Members should have a shared political affinity. Statements made by one of its MEPs, Alessandra Mussolini, had indicated that it was merely a technical, not a political, group. However, Bruno Gollnisch (ITS, FR), the new group's leader, countered that all its Members had signed a political declaration by which they subscribed to a common set of principles. President Borrell agreed with Mr Gollnisch and ruled that the group did indeed meet the criteria. The ITS group was thus formally constituted. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-COVER-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070112BRI01902 ITEM-002-EN DOC XML V0//EN Institutions President Borrell's farewell speech to the House 2007-01-22 - 12:29 In his final speech