that the transfer has been executed in accordance with this Regulation and the articles of association of the SPE and the shareholder submits reasonable evidence as to his lawful ownership of the share. Amendment 2 8 Proposal for a regulation Article 16 – paragraph 4 – point a Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (a) in relation to the SPE, on the day the shareholder notifies the SPE of the transfer; (a) in relation to the SPE, on the day the new shareholder notifies the SPE of the transfer; Justification The point in time at which the share transfer becomes valid should be clearly stated in the Regulation. Rather than being in the list of shareholders provided for by the Commission, these should be entered in the register for the sake of legal certainty. Amendment 29 Proposal for a regulation Article 16 – paragraph 4 – point b Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (b) in relation to third parties, on the day the shareholder is entered in the list referred to in Article 15. (b) in relation to third parties, on the day the shareholder is entered in the list referred to in Article 15 or the third party’s status as shareholder is published in the register in accordance with Article 9 . Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. A shareholder shall have the right to withdraw from the SPE if the activities of the SPE are being or have been conducted in a manner which causes serious harm to the interests of the shareholder as a result of one or more of the following events : 1. The right of withdrawal shall be exercisable by shareholders who do not subscribe to resolutions concerning : (a) the SPE has been deprived of a significant part of its assets ; (a) operations which deprive the SPE of a significant part of its assets ; (b) the registered office of the SPE has been transferred to another Member State ; (b) operations which bring about a substantial change in the activities of the SPE ; (c) the activities of the SPE have changed substantially ; (c) transferral of the registered office of the SPE to another Member State ; (d) no dividend has been distributed for at least 3 years even though the SPE's financial position would have permitted such distribution. (d) non ‑distribution of dividends for at least three years, even though the SPE’s financial position would have permitted such distribution. The Statute for the SPE may provide for additional grounds for withdrawal. Justification In order to avoid uncertainty, the right of withdrawal should be linked to specific stances taken by shareholders when resolutions are adopted. It would also seem appropriate to allow for additional grounds for withdrawal to be provided for in the Statute. Amendment 3 1 Proposal for a regulation Article 18 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. The management body of the SPE shall, on receipt of the notice referred to in paragraph