of existing employee financial participation schemes, not only as between Member States, but also within them, D. whereas it is as yet neither necessary nor desirable and practicable fully to harmonise the rules for financial participation schemes, as this would impede the flexibility of Member States’ policies, but whereas current practices should be compared and coordinated through the establishment and development of common principles (which would have to be agreed) and fiscal and social security aspects should be examined, E. whereas employee participation in capital improves the equity ratio, which makes it easier to raise capital from outside sources (Basle II), and both factors increase the investment capacity of the enterprise, F. whereas studies and specific examples show that employee financial participation, where it is correctly implemented, not only increases company productivity, competitiveness, and profitability, but can also, at the same time, encourage worker participation, improve the quality of employment and contribute to greater social cohesion, G. whereas there are many forms of profit-sharing and enterprise participation by employees in the European Union, for which until now there has been no European framework, H. whereas models of share ownership and profit-sharing have become established to different degrees in the different EU Member States; whereas in particular the French policy on participation is a good example of what financial participation can do for employment policy, I. whereas in nearly all the accession countries there is no legal or fiscal framework for employee participation, J. whereas employee financial participation can contribute to greater social responsibility on the part of undertakings, 1. Considers that financial participation by employees in their undertaking is one of the preconditions for achieving the European social model; 2. Welcomes the communication’s general objective of greater participation by employees in the Member States and the EU in profits and productive capital and its aim to submit proposals on this subject by 2004; confirms its previous positions on profit-sharing and share ownership; 3. Considers that the Commission’s proposal may be expected to have direct results regarding, specifically, the increase of employment in the framework of the Lisbon objectives; notes that positive experiences of financial participation schemes can be found both inside and outside the European Union, although in the EU the use of such schemes is so far not prevalent in SMEs but mostly linked to larger companies; 4. Endorses the proposals in the communication and calls for better mutual recognition of the different national systems; 5. Considers that the following principles are essential for the functioning of a model of financial participation: (i) participation must be voluntary – all employees must be included in the participation scheme offered by the employer without any discrimination; particular attention must be paid to including part-time workers and women; (ii) the scheme must be clear, transparent and simple, in line with the situation of the company, the undertaking and the economy; (iii) unreasonable risks for employees should be avoided wherever possible; (iv) where possible, avoidance of a pro-cyclical impact on Member States’ national economies, e.g. in cases of excessive growth in employee incomes and wealth