the application of this Convention, whenever such dispute cannot be settled by the Council within six months of its being referred to the Council by one of its members. 2. The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction to rule on any dispute between Member States regarding the interpretation or the application of this Convention, whenever such dispute cannot be settled by the Council within six months of its being referred to the Council by one of its members. Amendment 38 Article 9, paragraph 2a (new) (Convention) 2a. The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction to rule on any dispute between Member States and the Commission regarding the interpretation or the application of this Convention. Amendment 39 Article 9, paragraph 3 (Convention) 3. The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction, subject to the conditions laid down in paragraphs 4 to 7, to give preliminary rulings on the interpretation of this Convention. 3. The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction, subject to the conditions laid down in paragraphs 4 to 7, to give preliminary rulings on the interpretation of this Convention and on the validity and interpretation of the measures implementing it . Amendment 40 Article 10, paragraph 1 (Convention) 1. This Convention shall be subject to adoption by the Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. 1. This Convention shall be open for adoption by the Member States in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements. Amendment 41 Article 10, paragraph 2 (Convention) 2. Member States shall notify the depositary of the completion of the constitutional procedures for the adoption of this Convention. 2. Member States shall notify the Secretary-General of the Council of the completion of the constitutional procedures for the adoption of this Convention. Amendment 42 Article 10, paragraph 3 (Convention) 3. This Convention shall enter into force ninety days after the notification referred to in paragraph 2 by the State , Member of the European Union at the time of adoption by the Council of the Act drawing up this Convention, which is last to complete that formality. 3. This Convention shall enter into force for those Member States that have adopted it ninety days after the date of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 by the Member State of the European Union whose completion of that formality means that at least half of the Member States have adopted the Convention .