women’s rights, and especially those of working women, are systemically violated; one matter to which particular attention should be drawn is the use of bonuses for ‘production’, ‘quality’, ‘productivity’, or ‘regular attendance’, the invariable purpose of which is to make maternity and paternity rights subject to conditions and create difficulties in terms of supporting children or other dependants, as well as limiting trade union and political rights. A dual strategy needs to be employed, applying an integrated approach to gender equality while continuing to take specific action, including legislative, budgetary, and supervisory measures. Where the social impact of policy proposals needs to be assessed, such assessment should cover gender equality. In Parliament too, across its varied range of activities, extending to committees and parliamentary delegations, particular importance should be assigned to equality issues. Policy areas – aims Gender equality and equal opportunities should be achieved in a context of social progress for all and not of retrogression. It is therefore important to build on the analysis of the Beijing Platform (Beijing + 15) with a view not just to developing appropriate indicators, but also to defining goals and adopting the necessary policies in all of the 12 areas covered. In this time of crisis, one priority has to be to fight poverty by reforming the macroeconomic, monetary, social, and labour market policies lying at its roots with a view to guaranteeing economic and social justice for women and pursuing strategies to promote fair distribution of income, guarantee a minimum income and decent wages and pensions, create more jobs with rights for women, enable all women and girls to benefit from public services of a high standard, and improve welfare provision and neighbourhood services, for example crèches, nursery schools, kindergartens, day centres, and community leisure and family support centres, making them accessible to women, children, and older people as a whole. This could afford an opportunity to create jobs with rights for women and help to foster social inclusion. Steps need to be taken as a matter of urgency to combat discrimination in terms of wages and the value to be assigned to work, whether by revising the existing directive or by drawing up phased industry-wide plans, with clear-cut goals, aimed at doing away with direct and indirect forms of discrimination or by encouraging collective bargaining and the training of equality advisers and laying down equality plans for factories and other workplaces. It is not enough to submit a communication, as the Commission did in July 2007, on the subject of reducing the gender pay gap. Nor is it enough to examine the reasons for wage disparities. It is essential to reveal the findings, and it is to be hoped that the Commission will draw conclusions and, without fail, put forward measures aimed at narrowing the gender pay gap. Greater action, awareness-raising, and supervision are needed at the workplace in order to create better working conditions for women, taking into account working times, compliance with maternity and paternity rights and their social function in terms of work-life balance and calling for wider uptake