support arrangements for soft fruit and cherry producers suffering losses as a result of adverse weather conditions. The House takes the view that such simplification should in particular seek to ensure that compensation for the impact of adverse weather conditions does not require prior approval by the Commission, which would significantly speed up payments to farmers. The House calls on the Commission to introduce compensation arrangements for producers as part of the reform of the CMO in fruit and vegetables, to cover situations in which crops of soft fruits and cherries are not brought to market as a result of unforeseen and temporary difficulties stemming from supply surpluses. The House calls for the introduction of a labelling system to indicate the country of origin of agricultural products used for processed foods, and for such labelling to be required on the end product as well, making it possible for consumers to choose whether to purchase regional products. Parliament wants appropriate funds to be allocated, in connection with regulations seeking to promote agricultural products, to increasing consumption of high-quality European soft fruits and soft-fruit products. Finally, the House calls on the Polish Government to eliminate the fiscal disadvantages suffered by producer groups so as to encourage producers to form associations to sell their products and so that they can make optimal use of the EU's common-organisation-of the-market budget for fruit and vegetables. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20061010BRI11531 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20061010BRI11531 ITEM-004-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20061010BRI11531 ITEM-006-EN DOC XML V0//EN External/international trade Boosting ties between EU and Mercosur 2006-10-13 - 10:35 Parliament adopted an own-initiative report on economic and trade relations between the EU and Mercosur. The report looks at the plans for an interregional association agreement launched at the first summit of heads of state or government of the EU and Mercosur in Rio de Janeiro (June 1999). The House believes both continents have an interest in seeing Mercosur open up to Asia, South Africa and the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council. MEPs also urge the Mercosur countries to create their own parliament, composed of representatives of different national parliaments. Parliament also wants to create a Mercosur - European Parliament inter-parliamentary delegation to further boost ties and the establishment of a Euro-Latin American Parliamentary Assembly comprising Members of the European Parliament and of the Latin American integration parliaments. The House reaffirms the need for the EU to conclude, as soon as possible, a full, ambitious and balanced Association Agreement with Mercosur, based on three pillars: a political and institutional chapter reinforcing democratic dialogue and political cooperation, a cooperation chapter promoting sustainable economic and social development, and a trade chapter establishing an advanced free-trade area with a broad agenda including, as well as reciprocal liberalisation of trade in goods and services, investment, public procurement, the protection of intellectual property rights, cooperation regarding competition and trade protection instruments, trade facilitation, and a binding dispute settlement mechanism. As to the Doha round, Parliament regrets the fact that, despite