and would do nothing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally. If such instances can be proven measures should be taken to protect or compensate the industries concerned. But the evidence suggests that the threat is much exaggerated. We should be cautious of industry lobbyists seeking to justify claims for assistance on grounds that may be spurious. Europe must develop a sense of urgency or risk losing the race to maintain a competitive economy. Decision-taking has too often become slow to the point of sclerotic. There needs to be less talk and more delivery. One example illustrates the problem. In March 2007 the European Council took the decision to have up to 12 carbon capture and storage demonstration projects in operation by 2015. Five years later, as this report is presented to Parliament, we will still not have identified the location of a single one of the demonstration plants we intend to support financially, let alone have put contracts out to tender. A comparison of this performance with the transformational achievements of China over a similar 5-year period does not leave Europe looking good. Decisive action is essential if the EU is not to get left behind. Adoption of the roadmap, and the setting of ambitious goals for the development of a low carbon economy, offers an opportunity to stimulate progress. Notes The contents of the draft report have been shaped by the restrictions on length required by the Parliament. It is the intention of the rapporteur to supplement the proposals it contains by way of a significant number of amendments. The rapporteur has welcomed the many suggestions made to him by colleagues in the European Parliament; by representatives of organisations that include Amcham, Business Europe, CAN-Europe, CCSA, Cement Industries, CEPI, Client Earth, ECF, E3G, Eurelectric, Eurogas, European Association of Aluminium, European Economic and Social Committee, Europia, EWEA, First Solar, GIE, Globe International, LCVP, NFU, Pilkingtons, Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders’ Group, Sandbag, Shell, Statoil, T&E and WWF; by representatives of the French, Dutch, Danish and British governments; and by Professor Michael Grubb, Michela Beltracchi, Poppy Kalesi, and Nick Campbell. He thanks in particular Sarah Deblock, Roger Chadwick and Edwin Koekkoek for their guidance. The rapporteur is solely responsible for the proposals that he has chosen to include within his draft report. 24.11.2011 OPINION of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on a roadmap for moving to a competitive low carbon economy in 2050 ( 2011/2095(INI) ) Rapporteur for the opinion (*): Mario Pirillo (*) Procedure with associated committees – Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure SUGGESTIONS The Committee on Industry, Research and Energy calls on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Welcomes the Commission communication on a roadmap for moving to a competitive low carbon economy in 2050 and considers that measures should be implemented in a coordinated, cost-efficient and effective way, allowing for the specific characteristics of Member