no longer than 6 months after receipt of the application referred to in Article 5(7) , the Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Union the single document and the reference to the publication of the specification referred to in the fifth subparagraph of Article 5(5). Amendment 49 Article 7, paragraph 1 1. Within four months from the date of publication in the Official Journal of the European Union provided for in the first subparagraph of Article 6(2), any Member State or third country may object to the registration proposed, by sending a duly substantiated statement to the Commission. 1. Within six months from the date of publication in the Official Journal of the European Union provided for in the first subparagraph of Article 6(2), any Member State or third country may object to the registration proposed, by sending a duly substantiated statement to the Commission. Amendment 25 Article 7, paragraph 4, subparagraph 2 The registration shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union . The registration shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the Internet and shall include the publication details of the specification referred to in Article 5(5) . If the application for registration relates to a geographical area situated in a third country, the Commission shall publish the specification pursuant to Article 5(5). Amendment 26 Article 7, paragraph 6 6. The Commission shall maintain updated a register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications. 6. The Commission shall maintain updated a register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications and publish the register on the Internet . Amendment 27 Article 8, paragraph 2 a (new) The Community symbols shall be distinguished by means of colour codes specific to each symbol. Amendment 47 Article 8, paragraph 3 In the case of agricultural products and foodstuffs originating in third countries marketed under a name registered in accordance with this Regulation the indications referred to in the second subparagraph and the associated Community symbols may also appear on the labelling. In the case of agricultural products and foodstuffs originating in third countries marketed under a name registered in accordance with this Regulation the indications referred to in the second subparagraph, but not the associated Community symbols, may also appear on the labelling. Amendment 28 Article 8, paragraph 3 a (new) The place of origin and the place of processing of each agricultural product or foodstuff marketed under a name registered in accordance with this Regulation shall be clearly and visibly indicated on the label. Amendment 29 Article 10, paragraph 3 3. In accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 the Member States shall designate a competent central body specifically responsible for implementing the control system relating to this Regulation. 3. In accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 the Member States shall designate an official body responsible for monitoring compliance with Community rules on geographical indication. Amendment 30 Article 10, paragraph 3 a (new) 3a. Rightholders may lodge complaints with their national