for a decision for each nomination. 3. The vote in plenary shall take place within two months of the receipt of the nomination unless Parliament, at the request of the committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members, decides otherwise. Parliament shall vote by secret ballot separately on each nomination and take its decision by a majority of the votes cast. 4. If the opinion adopted by Parliament on an individual nomination is negative, the President shall request the Council to withdraw its nomination and submit a new nomination to Parliament. Rule 102 Appointment of the Members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank 1. The candidate nominated as President of the European Central Bank shall be invited to make a statement before the committee responsible and answer questions put by members. 2. The committee responsible shall make a recommendation to Parliament as to whether the nomination should be approved. 3. The vote shall take place within two months of the receipt of the nomination unless Parliament, at the request of the committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members, decides otherwise. 4. If the opinion adopted by Parliament is negative, the President shall request the Council to withdraw its nomination and submit a new nomination to Parliament. 5. The same procedure shall apply for nominations for Vice-President and other Executive Board Members of the European Central Bank. CHAPTER 2 STATEMENTS Rule 103 Statements by the Commission, Council and European Council 1. Members of the Commission, Council and European Council may at any time ask the President for permission to make a statement. The President shall decide when the statement may be made and whether it is to be followed by a full debate or by thirty minutes of brief and concise questions from Members. 2. When placing a statement with debate on its agenda, Parliament shall decide whether or not to wind up the debate with a resolution. It shall not do so if a report on the same matter is scheduled for the same or the next part-session, unless the President, for exceptional reasons, proposes otherwise. If Parliament decides to wind up a debate with a resolution, a committee, a political group or at least forty Members may table a motion for a resolution. 3. Motions for resolutions shall be put to the vote on the same day. The President shall decide on any exceptions. Explanations of vote shall be admissible. 4. A joint motion for a resolution shall replace the motions for resolutions tabled previously by its signatories, but not those tabled by other committees, political groups or Members. 5. After a resolution has been adopted, no further motions may be put to the vote except where the President, by way of exception, decides otherwise. Rule 104 Statements explaining Commission decisions After consulting the Conference of Presidents, the President may invite the President of the Commission, the Commissioner responsible for relations with the European Parliament or, by agreement, another Commissioner, to make a statement to Parliament after each meeting of the Commission, explaining