their distinctive charism and rule, Cistercian monks have long worn white habits, to distinguish themselves from Benedictine monks, who wear black habits.", " Within Anglicanism there has historically been less interest in the Cistercian Order than certain other monastic Rules, although Cistercian life has been represented continuously in the Church of England since at least 1966." ] ], [ "Saint Vincent Archabbey", [ "Saint Vincent Archabbey, is a Roman Catholic Benedictine Monastery in Westmoreland County, Pennsylvania in the city of Latrobe.", " A member of the American-Cassinese Congregation, it is the oldest Benedictine monastery in the United States and the largest in the Western Hemisphere.", " The Benedictine monks of St. Vincent operate and teach Saint Vincent Basilica Parish, Saint Vincent College, and Saint Vincent Seminary.", " The monks also provide pastoral care for Catholics in the Dioceses of Baltimore, Greensburg, Pittsburgh, Harrisburg, Altoona-Johnstown, and Richmond.", " The monks also run a military school in Savannah, Georgia (Benedictine Military School).", " The Archabbey also oversees Wimmer Priory in Taiwan, and Saint Benedict Priory in Brazil." ] ], [ "Benedictine University", [ "Benedictine University is a private Roman Catholic university located in Lisle, a suburb of Chicago, Illinois.", " The school was founded in 1887 as St. Procopius College by the Benedictine monks of St. Procopius Abbey in the Pilsen community on the West Side of Chicago.", " The institution has retained a close relationship with the Benedictine Order, which bears the name of St. Benedict (480-543 A.D.), the acknowledged father of western monasticism." ] ], [ "Albert II of Germany", [ "Albert the Magnanimous KG (10 August 139727 October 1439) was King of Hungary and Croatia from 1437 until his death.", " He was also King of Bohemia, elected King of Germany as Albert II, Duke of Luxembourg and, as Albert V, Archduke of Austria from 1404." ] ], [ "San Beda College", [ "San Beda College (Spanish: \"Colegio de San Beda\" ) and (Filipino: \"Dalubhasaan ng San Beda\" ) is a private Roman Catholic Benedictine college run by the Benedictine monks in the Philippines.", " It is located in Mendiola, Manila, for college and Taytay, Rizal for Elementary and High School.", " It was founded in 1901 primarily to \"defend the Catholic battlements in the field of education.\"", " San Beda, which was known then as El Colegio de San Beda, started as an all-boys grade school in Manila.", " It has since then expanded to a full college with both undergraduate and post-graduate degree offerings.", " It has two other campuses: the San Beda College-Rizal (the largest San Beda campus in size) and the San Beda College Alabang (formerly known as St. Benedict College and Benedictine Abbey School) located in Alabang Hills Village in Muntinlupa City.", " San Beda College Alabang however is autonomous from the other two San Beda campuses and has its own set of administrators and officials.", " The San Beda Graduate School of Liturgy in Manila, meanwhile, traces its academic roots and origins to the Paul VI Institute of Liturgy in Malaybalay City, Bukidnon." ] ],