{ "context": [ [ "Mirsky's theorem", [ "In mathematics, in the areas of order theory and combinatorics, Mirsky's theorem characterizes the height of any finite partially ordered set in terms of a partition of the order into a minimum number of antichains.", " It is named for and is closely related to Dilworth's theorem on the widths of partial orders, to the perfection of comparability graphs, to the Gallai–Hasse–Roy–Vitaver theorem relating longest paths and colorings in graphs, and to the Erdős–Szekeres theorem on monotonic subsequences." ] ], [ "Blues Section", [ "Blues Section are a Finnish rock music group.", " They started in 1967, formed around the vocalist Jim Pembroke, a British expatriate song-writer now living in Finland.", " The other members of the band were Eero Koivistoinen (saxophone), Ronnie Österberg (drums), Hasse Walli (guitar), and Måns Groundstroem (bass).", " Their influences came above all from John Mayall's Bluesbreakers and Jimi Hendrix, who had played a gig in Helsinki in May 1967.", " One can also hear in Pembroke's British-flavoured song-writing some echoes from The Beatles and The Kinks.", " Blues Section released a self-titled album late 1967 on Helsinki's Love Records.", " In 1968 Groundstroem and Pembroke left the band, being replaced by Pekka Sarmanto and (another British vocalist) Frank Robson, respectively.", " Also Koivistoinen would leave the band during the same year, and by the end of 1968 Blues Section was over.", " The Blues Section members would continue in such acclaimed progressive rock bands as Wigwam and Tasavallan Presidentti.", " Eero Koivistoinen was to become an internationally acclaimed jazz musician, and Hasse Walli would discover world music, playing in such bands as Piirpauke." ] ], [ "Hasse–Davenport relation", [ "The Hasse–Davenport relations, introduced by , are two related identities for Gauss sums, one called the Hasse–Davenport lifting relation, and the other called the Hasse–Davenport product relation.", " The Hasse–Davenport lifting relation is an equality in number theory relating Gauss sums over different fields.", " used it to calculate the zeta function of a Fermat hypersurface over a finite field, which motivated the Weil conjectures." ] ], [ "Mrs. Warren's Profession (film)", [ "Mrs. Warren's Profession (German: Frau Warrens Gewerbe) is a 1960 West German drama film directed by Ákos Ráthonyi and starring Lilli Palmer, O. E. Hasse and Johanna Matz.", " It is an adaptation of George Bernard Shaw's 1894 play \"Mrs. Warren's Profession\"." ] ], [ "Hasse–Minkowski theorem", [ "The Hasse–Minkowski theorem is a fundamental result in number theory which states that two quadratic forms over a number field are equivalent if and only if they are equivalent \"locally at all places\", i.e. equivalent over every completion of the field (which may be real, complex, or p-adic).", " A related result is that a quadratic space over a number field is isotropic if and only if it is isotropic locally everywhere, or equivalently, that a quadratic form over a number field nontrivially represents zero if and only if this holds for all completions of the field.", " The theorem was proved in the case of the field of