Answer given by Mr Barnier on behalf of the Commission (29 November 2010) The Commission is extremely concerned about the lack of effective protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights (IPR) in China and its damaging effect on EU businesses, consumers and our national economies. The Commission has continually raised concerns such as the difficulties experienced by the Honourable Member's constituent and will continue to do so — with the Chinese Government, not only through the EU‑China Dialogue on Intellectual Property but also at the political level. Despite efforts made by the Chinese Government, further improvements are still needed to more effectively protect and enforce IPR. In order to help European right holders, in particular small- and medium-sized enterprises, which operate in or with China, the European Commission has developed the China IPR SME Helpdesk www.ipr-helpdesk.org that provides free of charge practical, business focused advice and aims at assisting them in making the best IPR decisions for their business. At EU level, customs legislation gives right holders the possibility to ask Customs to protect their intellectual property rights, based upon Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 OJ L 196, 2.8.2003 . and implementing provisions (EC) No 1891/2004 of 21 October 2004 laying down provisions for implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 1383/2003 — OJ L 328, 30.10.2004 . . Under this regulation, right holders may lodge an application for action with customs authorities, requesting customs to take action in cases where a suspicion exists that a product is infringing their IPR. Applications can be requested on a national or EU basis. When such goods are intercepted, entering the EU, customs authorities may suspend their release or detain them for a given period and contact the right holder to enable him to initiate the proceedings to determine whether an IPR has been infringed under national law. In addition, since the adoption of Directive 2004/48/EC on the enforcement of intellectual property rights in the internal market, right holders in EU Member States have at their disposal a number of remedies to enable them to defend their rights in the civil courts, such as injunctions to stop infringements, provisional measures to desist from infringements or better possiblities to be awarded compensatory damages. Moreover, in 2009, the Commission launched the EU Observatory on counterfeiting and piracy, which is now the platform for representatives from national authorities and private sector stakeholders to exchange ideas and expertise and to propose solutions to specific problems surrounding enforcement. The Observatory comprises of over 40 private stakeholder representatives, the 27 Member States and the Commission. The ongoing problems in China being of serious concern to all of those participating in its work, the Observatory is looking at developing a series of further practical initiatives on how to respond to the damaging effect that counterfeiting and piracy is having on the EU.