Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (15 November 2010) The Commission ordered two external evaluation reports on the European Union and the Member States' response to the pandemic crisis http://ec.europa.eu/health/communicable_diseases/docs/assessment_response_en.pdf and the implementation of the national vaccination programs http://ec.europa.eu/health/communicable_diseases/docs/assessment_vaccine_en.pdf . The results were published respectively, in April and September 2010. These two evaluations have identified a number of ‘lessons learnt’ and opportunities for improvement, particularly in the areas of communication, coordination, information sharing, vaccine development and vaccine procurement. These findings were further discussed with the Member States at a Belgian Presidency Conference in July 2010. In addition, these two evaluation reports were transmitted to the Chairman of the Parliament's Environment, Public Health and Food Safety Committee and presented during a seminar on the management of the H1N1 Pandemic at the Parliament on 5 October 2010. The Commission is currently developing a series of initiatives to take into account the lessons learnt from the pandemic. With regard to the procurement of pandemic vaccines, further to a request from the EU Health Ministers, a joint pandemic vaccine procurement mechanism is currently being developed at European level. The objective of this mechanism is to better coordinate and enhance the effectiveness of Member States' pandemic vaccine procurement policies. In addition the Commission is currently reviewing the EU Influenza Pandemic Preparedness Plan Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response Planning in the European Community, COM(2005)0607 final. and the existing EU legislation in the field of public health security and communicable diseases. The objective of this revision is to improve and strengthen EU's response capacities and to ensure the protection of citizens against such threats.