age group by providing them with the information, education and services necessary to reduce their vulnerability to HIV infection, and promoting the use of condoms; considers that parents, primary and secondary school teachers, health workers, politicians, religious leaders etc. in the communities must be trained along these lines, and that these campaigns must take place in local schools and communities, taking account of local cultures; 7. Supports the Commission's intention to contribute significantly to improved budgeting, financial management, planning, quality assurance, procurement through tendering, distribution, and optimal use of pharmaceuticals in developing countries; 8. Points out that satisfactory responses to the issue of access to drugs and treatment can be found only as part of an increased effort on the part of industrialised countries in the field of development aid in general and support for health systems in developing countries in particular; 9. Calls for the European Union, to support measures for preventing as well as treating HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, and in this regard, to devote 10% of its development aid spending to policies on combating the main communicable diseases, support for health systems and population programmes; 10. Calls for use to be made of the existing general preventative health programmes by increased efforts in the area of reproductive health; notes that cases of HIV infection are increasing sharply among women - in both rural and urban areas; notes the fact that often women do not get access to health services; 11. Calls on the EU to ensure that the right of developing countries to produce and market within those countries generic medicines intended for the treatment of major epidemics is recognised at international level, without costs arising from intellectual property rights, by using the possibility offered by the TRIPS Agreement, particularly compulsory licenses, but also by periodically evaluating them and proposing any necessary amendments to that Agreement; 12. Calls on governments in the developing world to allocate an appropriate level of national resources to health; 13. Calls for developing countries intending to make infrastructure improvements not to cut expenditure on health and education budgets, and calls on donors assessing aid on macroeconomic conditions of developing countries to ensure that health and education budgets receive priority; 14. Calls on developing countries to abolish tariffs and taxes on import of essential drugs and equipment in order to make healthcare more affordable; 15. Supports the recommendation contained in the Commission's Plan for Action to support the WHO's efforts to revise the criteria establishing the list of essential drugs in order to include costly drugs such as anti-retrovirals; 16. Calls on the Commission to continue to develop close working relationships with the WHO, UNAIDS, UNICEF and the World Bank so that developing countries are encouraged to import only country-specific essential medicines thereby ensuring best use of national health budgets; 17. Is convinced that better cooperation and partnership between NGOs, private and public sectors in healthcare delivery in developing countries can minimise the cost of procurement, distribution and delivery of medicines and treatment; 18. Stresses the need to improve links between NGOs, the private sector