encourage participation by citizens and to make the Union more accessible. They should strike a judicious balance between rights and obligations . Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3a) It is important for efficient information and publicity campaigns concerning citizens' initiatives to be organised, in order to raise citizens' awareness , to provide accurate information on this new instrument , to promote civil dialogue and to build a genuine European public space; in this context, communication activities and information campaigns have an important role to play. Therefore, the Commission should consider using the existing programmes which promote mobility and active citizenship as well as new forms of communication, such as social networking, which promote public debate. Moreover, the C ommission and the European Parliament, through their respective representations and offices in the Member States, should upon request provide citizens with information and informal advice about citizens' initiatives, in particular as regards the registration criteria and the values and competencies of the Union as enshrined in the European Treaties. A user's guide to the citizens' initiatives should be prepared in every official language of the Union and should be available online. Justification In order to avoid raising false expectations and misunderstanding on the nature and the scope of the ECI information campaigns become crucial. The amendment aims to improve the citizens awareness and accurate information on this new instrument. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3b) The European Commission representations and the European Parliament's information offices in the Member States, together with the Commission's information networks, should play a permanent role in the provision to citizens of all necessary information regarding the citizens´ initiative. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5) It is necessary to establish the minimum number of Member States from which citizens must come. In order to ensure that a citizens' initiative is representative of a Union interest , this number should be set at one third of Member States. (5) It is necessary to establish a minimum number of Member States from which citizens must come. This threshold should ensure that a citizens' initiative is representative of a Union interest but the requirements should not be too cumbersome. It therefore should be set at one fifth of the Member States. Justification A lower threshold should be found where the Union interest can still be represented but the requirements are not too cumbersome. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation Recital 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6) For that purpose, it is also appropriate to establish the minimum number of citizens coming from each of those Member States. In order to ensure similar conditions for citizens to support a citizens' initiative, these minimum numbers should be degressively proportional to the size of each Member State . For the purpose of clarity they should be set out for each Member State in an Annex to the present Regulation . (6) For that