Post-Briefing - 10-13 March 2008 - Strasbourg plenary session 2008-03-17 - 10:43 50th anniversary of the European Parliament celebrated in Strasbourg To celebrate the European Parliament's 50th anniversary on 19 March 2008, the presidents of the EP, the Council and the Commission each addressed the House in a special sitting in Strasbourg. The speeches were preceded and followed by performances by the European Youth Orchestra. Pöttering on European Day of the Victims of Terrorism "We will honour all victims" Addressing the European Parliament in Strasbourg, President Hans-Gert Pöttering said: "Today we are commemorating the fourth European Day of the Victims of Terrorism. This is a day that we must keep in our memory in order to remember all those who have suffered the barbarities of terrorism. The terrorist attacks in Madrid on 11 March 2004 and in London on 7 July 2005 claimed many victims and left many families in ruins. President Pöttering calls for immediate release of hostages held in Columbia including Ingrid Betancourt Six years after the abduction of Ingrid Betancourt, more than 700 hostages are still being held by guerrilla organisations in Columbia, President of the European Parliament Hans-Gert PÖTTERING called for the immediate release of Ingrid Betancourt and her fellow hostages for humanitarian reasons. Speaking on behalf of the European Parliament, President Pöttering expressed concern about the worrying state of health of many of the hostages and called for an international medical mission to be sent to Columbia immediately to address their medical needs. European Parliament debates the Spring Summit on growth and jobs MEPs held a debate with the Council and Commission on Spring Summit (13-14 March, Brussels) - the two-day European Council meeting of EU Heads of State or Government which focused on economic issues. The meeting of the European Council was preceded by an speech from the EP President, Hans-Gert Pöttering, followed by an exchange of views. The Presidency Conclusions of the Brussels European Council are now available and a link to same is given under our European Council article. Estonian President Ilves on Europe's past and future A speech to the European Parliament on Tuesday (11 March) by Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves ranged across Europe's recent past as well as its prospects for the next ten years and beyond. Among the key issues facing the EU, Mr Ilves highlighted competitiveness, energy security and the Union's relations with its neighbours. But he also stressed the need for Europeans to remember "where we came from and how we got here". MEPs approve €162.4 million for the UK in EU Solidarity Fund following floods last summer The European Parliament adopted reports from the Budgets Committee on the mobilisation of the EU Solidarity Fund for an amount of €162.4 million in commitment and payment appropriations, relating to the major storms in the United Kingdom in June and July 2007. The grant will go towards reimbursing part of the cost of emergency measures such as rescue services, cleaning up after flood damage, and restoring basic infrastructure. New technologies for active ageing and longer independent living Helping older people