the appropriate committee. 2. The President shall forward the draft annual accounts to the committee responsible. 3. On the basis of a report by the committee responsible, Parliament shall approve its accounts and decide on the giving of a discharge. CHAPTER 9 ASSENT PROCEDURE Rule 75 Assent procedure 1. Where Parliament is requested to give its assent to a proposed act, it shall take a decision on the basis of a recommendation from the committee responsible to approve or reject the act. Parliament shall take a decision on the act requiring its assent under the EC or EU Treaty by means of a single vote, and no amendments may be tabled. The majority required for the adoption of the assent shall be the majority indicated in the article of the EC Treaty or of the EU Treaty that constitutes the legal basis for the proposed act. 2. For accession treaties and international agreements and determination of a serious and persistent breach of common principles by a Member State, Rules 82, 83 and 95 shall apply respectively. For an enhanced cooperation procedure in an area covered by the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the EC Treaty, Rule 76 shall apply. 3. Where Parliament's assent is required for a legislative proposal, the committee responsible may decide, in order to facilitate a positive outcome of the procedure, to present an interim report on the Commission proposal to Parliament with a motion for a resolution containing recommendations for modification or implementation of the proposal. If Parliament approves at least one recommendation the President shall request further discussion with the Council. The committee responsible shall make its final recommendation for the assent of Parliament in the light of the outcome of the discussion with the Council. CHAPTER 10 ENHANCED COOPERATION Rule 76 Procedures in Parliament 1. Requests by Member States or Commission proposals to introduce enhanced cooperation between Member States and consultations of Parliament pursuant to Article 40a(2) of the EU Treaty shall be referred by the President to the committee responsible for consideration. Rules 35, 36, 37, 40, 49 to 56 and 75 shall apply as appropriate. 2. The committee responsible shall verify compliance with Article 11 of the EC Treaty and Articles 27a, 27b, 40, 43, 44 and 44a of the EU Treaty. 3. Subsequent acts proposed under enhanced cooperation, once it is established, shall be dealt with in Parliament under the same procedures as when enhanced cooperation does not apply. CHAPTER 11 OTHER PROCEDURES Rule 77 Procedure for delivering opinions pursuant to Article 122 of the EC Treaty 1. When Parliament is consulted on Council recommendations pursuant to Article 122(2) of the EC Treaty, it shall, after these recommendations have been presented in plenary by the Council, deliberate on the basis of a proposal submitted orally or in writing by its committee responsible and advocating approval or rejection of the recommendations on which Parliament has been consulted. 2. Parliament shall then take a single collective vote on the recommendations, to which no amendments may be tabled. Rule 78 Procedures relating to dialogue