and civil society in developing countries in democratic processes. 72. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The necessity for the European Parliament to give a first pronouncement on the link between Trade and Poverty and to begin proposing solutions in order to orient trade policy’s contribution to solving the question of poverty is of particular relevance. Undoubtedly, trade can be an important tool for development and for poverty reduction. No country can reach a certain level of development without opening its trade to others. But when liberalisation takes place under pressure and too quickly, and without adequate regulation, it results in deindustrialisation, the destruction of the environment, increasing dependence and acceleration of impoverishment. The urgency of coherence is due to the dimension of poverty itself. Poverty, hunger, mass disease, exclusion of any form of access to natural resources such as water and basic services, are reaching levels hitherto unknown in the history of humanity and ambitious decisions are to be taken. The MDG’s were adopted by the UN in order to reduce by half the people dying from hunger by 2015. Even these very minimal objectives can not be reached if there is no change in actual policy. No doubt that no real progress can be reached toward this agreed objective without establishing fairer international trade rules. Questions of poverty, hunger, disease, destruction of the environment and climate change are also very much related to the security of all of us, and to the building of a peaceful world. Towards this end, the EU has special responsibility as the largest exporter and the second largest importer in the world, and the sooner we take the right decisions; the lower the costs will be. The policy of accelerated market opening, and the delay taken to react to new situations, such as the invasion of Chinese products through the adoption of appropriate laws, both at regional and at global level, , is challenging the essence of the EU itself, threatening the policy of industrialisation, the policy of protection of the environment, the efforts for regional and social cohesion, and the effort to organise the agricultural market. Contribution of trade to development Market access has often been presented as automatically positive for development. But in reality it works only within a whole set of domestic and international conditions. Opening borders to international trade appears to have been successful in countries that, having been quite protectionist in order to develop their economies, later decided to open some areas of their markets to international competition. All industrialised countries did so before opening their markets to international competition. Some conditions must be met before opening a market: - the existence of a national or regional institutional framework, including regulation for the redistribution of social and economical wealth, the absence of external financial conditionalities that paralyse the actions of the government; - the possibility to act with flexibility in order to choose how much to open an economical sector that is strong