on UK transposition These standards were transposed into UK legislation by the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations 1994. Link to the ELAS case There is no clear link to the case. It would be necessary to review the investment strategy of ELAS over a number of years and even decades to ascertain whether the assets covering the technical provisions were secure and diversified. In any case, the main contentious point in the case is not so much the investment standard of the assets covering technical provisions but rather the possible lack of sufficient reserving. For further information on this point, see Part III on Regulatory Action. Divergences between the 3LD and implementing provisions : none found. Article 22 - Rules for investment diversification Summary of objectives This article refers to the rules and principles that Member States must observe when regulating on assurance undertakings’ investments. It covers, on the one hand, investment limits on specific assets and, on the other hand, general investment principles for admissible assets. Text of the article Article 22 1. As regards the assets covering technical provisions, the home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to invest no more than: (a) 10 % of its total gross technical provisions in any one piece of land or building, or a number of pieces of land or buildings close enough to each other to be considered effectively as one investment; (b) 5 % of its total gross technical provisions in shares and other negotiable securities treated as shares, bonds, debt securities and other money- and capital-market instruments from the same undertaking, or in loans granted to the same borrower, taken together, the loans being loans other than those granted to a State, regional or local authority or to an international organization of which one or more Member States are members. This limit may be raised to 10 % if an undertaking invests not more than 40 % of its gross technical provisions in the loans or securities of issuing bodies and borrowers in each of which it invests more than 5 % of its assets; (c) 5 % of its total gross technical provisions in unsecured loans, including 1 % for any single unsecured loan, other than loans granted to credit institutions, assurance undertakings - in so far as Article 8 of Directive 79/267/EEC allows it - and investment undertakings established in a Member State. The limits may be raised to 8 and 2 % respectively by a decision taken on a case-by-case basis by the competent authority of the home Member State ; (d) 3 % of its total gross technical provisions in the form of cash in hand; (e) 10 % of its total gross technical provisions in shares, other securities treated as shares and debt securities which are not dealt in on a regulated market. 2. The absence of a limit in paragraph 1 on investment in any particular category does not imply that assets in that category should be accepted as cover for technical provisions without limit. The home Member State shall lay down