Ministers of Education from 45 countries adopted the standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European Higher Education Area, as proposed by ENQA, during their meeting in Bergen on 20 May 2005. They also welcomed the principle of a European register of quality assurance agencies based on national review and asked that the practicalities of implementation be further developed by ENQA, in cooperation with EUA, EURASHE and ESIB. They furthermore underlined the importance of cooperation between nationally recognised agencies with a view to enhancing the mutual recognition of accreditation or quality assurance decisions. Amendment 4 Recital 7 (7) It is desirable to draw up a positive list or register of independent and trustworthy quality assurance agencies operating in Europe, be they regional or national, general or specialised, public or private, profit-making or not for profit, to support transparency in higher education and help the recognition of qualifications and periods of study abroad. (7) It is desirable to draw up a list or register of independent and trustworthy quality assurance agencies operating in Europe, be they regional or national, general or specialised, public or private, to support transparency in higher education and help the recognition of qualifications and periods of study abroad. Justification The expression 'positive list' suggests that the register has some legal value, which is not desirable. Amendment 5 Section I, Recommendation A A. require all higher education institutions active within their territory to introduce or develop rigorous internal quality assurance mechanisms. A. require all higher education institutions active within their territory to introduce or develop rigorous internal quality assurance mechanisms , in accordance with the standards and guidelines for quality assurance in the European Higher Education Area adopted in Bergen in the context of the Bologna Process. Amendment 6 Section I, Recommendation B B. require all quality assurance or accreditation agencies active within their territory to be independent in their assessments, to apply the features of quality assurance laid down in the Council Recommendation of September 1998 and to apply a common set of standards, procedures and guidelines, for assessment purposes. B. require all quality assurance or accreditation agencies active within their territory to be independent in their assessments, to apply the features of quality assurance laid down in the Council Recommendation of September 1998 and to apply the common set of general standards and guidelines adopted in Bergen , for assessment purposes. These standards should be devised in cooperation with representatives of the higher education community. They should be applied in such a way as to protect and promote diversity and innovation, in particular by acknowledging universities' right to offer quality programmes that are different or more innovative than standard programmes. The results of external evaluations should be systematically processed and used as a basis for the next round of assessments. Amendment 7 Section I, Recommendation C C. encourage quality assurance and accreditation agencies , together with organisations representing higher education, to set up a “European Register of Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agencies”, as described in the Annex, and to define the conditions for registration. C. encourage representatives