WRITTEN QUESTION E-3144/10 by Diogo Feio (PPE) to the Commission (6 May 2010) Subject: VAT reimbursement Council Directive 2008/9/EC OJ L 44, 20.2.2008, p. 23. of 12 February 2008, transposed into Portuguese law by Decree-Law No 186/2009 of 12 August 2009, has altered the arrangements for VAT reimbursements. As of 1 January 2010, it is no longer possible for reimbursement requests to be made by forwarding the relevant documents to the tax authorities of the Member State where the VAT was incurred. Instead, requests must now be submitted via the portal of the tax administration of the Member State where the company concerned is based. This new electronic system is intended to facilitate and accelerate the process VAT reimbursement, but in reality that is not happening. In most of the Member States where the portals are operational, they are not working properly and a number of problems are occurring. Reimbursement requests involving considerable sums have been ‘lost’ between the portals of different Member States, thus of course penalising the companies concerned. The reality of these problems may be gauged from the fact that the number of reimbursement requests registered in the first quarter of 2010 is more than 95 % lower than the equivalent figure for the first quarter of 2009. In addition, it is known that some Member States have still not introduced the electronic systems enabling companies to submit their reimbursement requests. At a time when enterprises in Europe, Portugal included, are being severely affected by the economic crisis, those companies are having to face major cash-flow problems thanks to being unable to recover the VAT due to them by reason of technical problems that are beyond their control. 1. Is the Commission aware of this state of affairs? What action will it take to deal with it? 2. Can the Commission indicate a deadline for the introduction of the new system on a properly functioning basis in all the Member States? 3. Will the Commission implement measures to penalise those Member States which have not been capable of introducing the new system in a proper and effective fashion?