Convention, with the exception of claims covered by Regulation (EC) No …/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council [on the liability of passenger carriers by sea or by inland waterway in the event of accident] + OJ: Please insert number of this Regulation. ; 4) "gross negligence" means conduct showing an unusual lack of due care and a consequent disregard of what should in principle have been clear to everyone in a given situation; 5) 5 ) "financial guarantee" means any financial guarantee, such as insurance or the guarantee of a bank or similar financial institution; 6) 6 ) "1996 Convention" means the recapitulative text of the 1976 Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims, adopted by the International Maritime Organisation, as amended by the 1996 Protocol and reproduced in Annex I ; 7) "Bunker Oil Convention" means the 2001 International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage; 8) "HNS Convention" means the 1996 International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea; 9 ) "IMO Resolution A.930(22) " means the Resolution of the Assembly of the International Maritime Organisation and the Governing Body of the International Labour Organisation entitled "Guidelines on provision of financial security in case of abandonment of seafarers" , reproduced in Annex II . Article 3 Scope 1. This Directive shall apply, with the exception of Articles 4 and 5 , to: a) maritime areas under the jurisdiction of Member States, in accordance with international law; . b) ships having a gross register tonnage of 300 or more, except for the regime of liability laid down in Article 6 which shall apply to all ships. 2 . This Directive shall not apply to warships, auxiliary warships or other State-owned or operated ships used for a non-commercial public service. 3 . This Directive shall be without prejudice to the implementation in each Member State of the Bunker Oil Convention, the HNS Convention and the 1992 International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage . Article 4 Civil liability for bunker oil pollution damage Member States shall become contracting parties to the Bunker Oil Convention as soon as possible and in any case before the date indicated in Article 18(1) of this Directive. Article 5 Damage caused by the carriage by sea of hazardous and noxious substances Member States shall become contracting parties to the HNS Convention as soon as possible and in any case before the date indicated in Article 18(1) of this Directive. Article 6 Regime of liability 1. Member States shall become contracting parties to the 1996 Convention as soon as possible and in any case before the date indicated in Article 18(1) of this Directive. Member States which are still party to the 1976 Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims must denounce it. 2. Member States shall determine the regime of civil liability for shipowners and shall ensure that the right of shipowners to limit their liability is governed by all provisions of the 1996 Convention 3.