by them in the performance of their duties.' 2. Article 10 of the Protocol states that: 'During sessions of the European Parliament, its Members shall enjoy: (a) in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliament; (b) in the territory of any other Member State, immunity from any measure of detention and from legal proceedings. Immunity shall likewise apply to Members while they are travelling to and from the place of meeting of the European Parliament. Immunity cannot be claimed when a Member is found in the act of committing an offence and shall not prevent the European Parliament from exercising its right to waive the immunity of one of its Members.' 3. Article 3 of the Act of 1976 states that: '1. Representatives shall be elected for a term of five years. 2. This five-year period shall begin at the opening of the first session following each election. (…) 3. The term of office of each representative shall begin and end at the same time as the period referred to in paragraph 2.' 4. Article 4(2) of the Act of 1976 states that: 'Representatives shall enjoy the privileges and immunities applicable to Members of the European Parliament by virtue of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities annexed to the Treaty establishing a Single Council and a Single Commission of the European Communities.' 5. Article 3(1) of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure states that: 'Members shall enjoy privileges and immunities in accordance with the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities, annexed to the Treaty of 8 April 1965 establishing a Single Council and a Single Commission of the European Communities.' 6. Article 8 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure states that: '1. A Member's term of office shall begin and end as laid down in the Act of 20 September 1976. It shall also end on death or resignation. 2. Every Member shall remain in office until the opening of the first sitting of Parliament following the elections.' 7. Article 10(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure states that: 'The parliamentary term shall run concurrently with the term of office of Members provided for in the Act of 20 September 1976.' 8. Under the PPI, Members of Parliament are protected from any legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of their duties (Article 9) and they enjoy immunity during the sessions of the European Parliament under the conditions laid down in Article 10. However, the PPI does not specify any time period for the protection provided for by the above-mentioned provisions. 9. It is necessary to determine whether the time conditions governing the application of the immunity provisions have been met. 10. Immunity presupposes the existence of a mandate. Under electoral law, this begins once the conditions of eligibility have been met. After investiture, in addition to their powers, Members enjoy a set of prerogatives including parliamentary immunity. These prerogatives, which guarantee the independence and dignity of Parliament and its Members vis-à-vis