whereas the information society should be open to all, since education and training, health, research and commerce are priority ICT applications which are close to the public, F. whereas the rapid growth of ICTs should serve to strengthen democracy and participation by citizens, making them active participants rather than simply consumers, G. whereas the development of ICTs should take place within a framework of independent regulatory authorities, guaranteeing access, freedom of expression and information, cultural diversity and multilingualism, H. whereas effectiveness on the part of the European Union derives from coordination of the Member States and the positive involvement of the Commission, in a manner consistent with its political objectives and its commitment to the less-developed countries, I. whereas ICTs are an integral part of the knowledge and information-based society sought by the Union's Lisbon Strategy and the Barcelona Declaration, J. whereas the Union has a major role to play in narrowing the digital divide in geographical and social terms, through successful internal policies and the development of a partnership associating public authorities, enterprises and civil society, K. whereas the Union has instruments at its disposal with which to address the digital divide: development aid policy, international economic and scientific cooperation and financing institutions (such as the European Investment Bank (EIB)), L. whereas the EU has demonstrated, by adoption of a common legislative framework for electronic communications, the crucial importance of an open and competitive market for the generation of investment in new services and the delivery of high-speed connections at affordable prices, M. whereas the rights to education and to access to vocational and continuing training are included as basic rights in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, 1. Welcomes the Council's renewed commitment to working towards the success of the second phase of the WSIS; 2. Broadly endorses the proposals made by the Commission, particularly as regards the decisive role of an investment-friendly regulatory framework, ICT applications in priority areas including on-line government, the importance of research and innovation and the contribution of ICTs to development, and expects the Commission to develop a strategy that complies with the WSIS global action plan to be decided at the Tunis Summit; 3. Points out that: – the good coordination of the Member States facilitated the involvement of the Commission in the WSIS Process, and especially in the Working Group on Internet Governance; – the Union's experience enables it to make a positive contribution to a regulatory environment conducive to implementation of the WSIS Plan of Action; 4. Emphasises that: – since the development of ICTs might widen the digital divide by favouring those who have access to ICTs and know how to use them, this risk must be taken into consideration in all the actions recommended, by tailoring these to the regional, national or local circumstances; – since ICTs contribute to competitiveness and to raising the level of knowledge and skills, equal importance should be accorded to the economic and the cultural effects of the development of ICTs, so that this benefits employment, enterprises and social cohesion; – special