the Parliament by President Prodi during the September part-session. It is the Commission's attempt to address 'the way in which the Union uses the powers given by its citizens': its overall goal is to 'help people to see how Member States, by acting together within the Union, are able to tackle their concerns more effectively'. The White Paper lists the principles of good governance as openness, participation, accountability, effectiveness and coherence; and proposes reforms grouped under four headings. 3. Better involvement and more openness : The formulation and adoption of policy must be more open and easier to understand. The Commission will provide up-to-date on-line information on policy formulation at all stages of the decision-making process. It will also take steps such as drawing-up and publishing standards for consultation on EU policy, making Community legislation more flexible so that it can be implemented with due regard for regional and local conditions, and consulting national and European associations of local and regional government early on in the policy-making process. The overall aim is to get more outside groups (local and regional government, non-governmental organisations) involved in EU policy-making. 4. Better policies, regulation and delivery : The goal is 'to improve the quality of its [EU] policies'. The principles of necessity (is action needed?) and subsidiarity (if so, is it needed at European level?) must be respected. Where European legislation is necessary, it must be made more quickly, strike the right balance between uniformity and flexibility, and win the confidence of citizens in the way that experts' advice has helped shape it. The concrete steps the Commission proposes include a further simplification of EU law and of the national implementing provisions imposed by Member States; more transparency in the way in which advice from experts is sought; and clear criteria for the setting-up and operation of any new regulatory agencies. 5. Global governance : The EU has responsibilities beyond Europe and should, the White Paper suggests, apply the principles of good governance to these: it should also enhance 'the effectiveness and enforcement powers of international institutions'. The Commission says that it will consult more closely with governments and non-governmental organisations in third countries when developing policies with an international dimension. It also proposes a review of the EU's international representation. 6. Refocused institutions : Finally, the White Paper argues that the Member States and the EU institutions need to improve the way they work so that they can develop a coherent set of policies. The European Council must focus more clearly on strategic objectives (e.g. improving human capital, knowledge and skills). The Council of Ministers must ensure greater consistency between policies agreed by its constituent parts (e.g. decisions taken in the education council should not contradict those taken in the employment council) and between policies agreed in Council and those pursued in Member States. The Commission must concentrate on its core activities - policy initiative, execution of policies, guardianship of the Treaties, and international representation of the Community; while there must be a simpler mechanism for control by the Council and Parliament of the