WRITTEN QUESTION E-4607/07 by Paul van Buitenen (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (26 September 2007) Subject: OLAF Director-General as political appointee In my earlier Question E‑0997/07, I indicated the strong political interference that is said to have been exercised by the representatives of one Member State to achieve the re-appointment of Mr Franz-Hermann Brüner as Director-General of the EU’s anti-fraud office OLAF. I specifically indicated that two presidents of political groups in the European Parliament were allegedly instrumental in this and I asked for a clarification of what actually happened. However, in your reply you just indicated that the formal selection procedure had been followed, with the Council and Parliament in an advisory role and a trialogue meeting of 7 February 2006 where an agreement was found with the European Commission on the prolongation of Mr Brüner’s mandate. Therefore allow me to be more specific this time. — On 27 June 2005, a panel including external experts recommended to the CCA/CCN a shortlist of the seven best candidates to be considered for the post of Director-General of OLAF, with a possible addition of four candidates who scored less. Mr Brüner was one of these four additional candidates; the external experts were not very impressed by Mr Brüner's candidature. — However, after the CCA, the Commission presented a shortlist of five candidates, Mr Brüner was now among these five best candidates. — Well-informed MEPs told me that both Mr Pöttering and Mr Schulz, chairs of the two biggest political groups in the EP, exercised heavy pressure on their coordinators in the Budgetary Control Committee (Cocobu) to recommend Mr Brüner for reappointment as DG of OLAF. — Despite this pressure, Mr Brüner was not recommended as the best candidate by the EP’s Cocobu. — Commissioner Kallas was quoted in the Financial Times (February 2006) saying that Mr Brüner's appointment was the result of pressure coming from the EP. — Just before the moment when the appointment of the DG of OLAF was due to take place, I received a phone call from a Commission official. He told me that the heavy political pressure coming from German representatives was frustrating the selection procedure. He asked me whether I would be willing to ask critical questions about this matter in an effort to focus again on the professional qualities of the candidates that had been proposed by Commission, Council and Parliament. I declined to ask these questions then, but I am asking the Commission the following questions now. 1. What precise action did Mr Pöttering, then chair of the EP Conservative group, take towards the European Commission, to promote the re-appointment of Franz-Hermann Brüner? 2. What precise action did Mr Schulz, chair of the EP Socialist group, take towards the European Commission to promote the re-appointment of Franz-Hermann Brüner? 3. What precise action did representatives of the office of the German Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, take towards the European Commission to promote the re-appointment of Franz-Hermann Brüner? 4. Does the Commission confirm that the selection process for the new Director-General of the anti-fraud office OLAF was frustrated or