apply. (See also interpretation under Rule 114.) 4. The Council and/or the High Representative and the Commission shall be invited to each plenary debate that involves either foreign, security or defence policy. Rule 90 Recommendations within the framework of the common foreign and security policy 1. The committee responsible for the common foreign and security policy may draw up recommendations to the Council in its areas of responsibility after obtaining authorisation from the Conference of Presidents or on a proposal within the meaning of Rule 114. 2. In urgent cases the authorisation referred to in paragraph 1 may be granted by the President, who may likewise authorise an emergency meeting of the committee concerned. 3. During the process for adopting these recommendations, which must be put to the vote in the form of a written text, Rule 138 shall not apply and oral amendments shall be admissible. The non-application of Rule 138 is possible only in committee and only in urgent cases. Neither at committee meetings not declared to be urgent nor in plenary sitting may there be any departure from the provisions of Rule 138. The provision stating that oral amendments shall be admissible means that members may not object to oral amendments being put to the vote in committee. 4. Recommendations drawn up in this way shall be included on the agenda for the next part-session. In urgent cases decided upon by the President, recommendations may be included on the agenda of a current part-session. Recommendations shall be deemed adopted unless, before the beginning of the part-session, at least forty Members submit a written objection, in which case the committee's recommendations shall be included on the agenda of the same part-session for debate and voting. A political group or at least forty Members may table amendments. Rule 91 Breach of human rights At each part-session, without requiring authorisation, the committees responsible may each table a motion for a resolution under the same procedure as laid down in Rule 90(4) concerning cases of breaches of human rights. CHAPTER 14 POLICE AND JUDICIAL COOPERATION IN CRIMINAL MATTERS Rule 92 Provision of information to Parliament in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters 1. The committee responsible shall ensure that Parliament is fully and regularly informed on the activities covered by police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and that its opinions are duly taken into consideration when the Council adopts common positions defining the approach of the Union to a particular matter pursuant to Article 34(2)(a) of the EU Treaty. 2. Exceptionally, at the request of the Commission or the Council, a committee may decide to hold its proceedings in camera. 3. The debate referred to in Article 39(3) of the EU Treaty shall be held in accordance with the arrangements laid down in Rule 103(2), (3) and (4). Rule 93 Consultation of Parliament in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters Consultation of Parliament pursuant to Article 34(2)(b), (c) and (d) of the EU Treaty shall be dealt with pursuant to Rules 34 to 37,