and can create a cycle of violence and abuse which is perpetuated through generations, J. whereas men's violence against women is a structural and widespread problem throughout Europe and the world, a phenomenon affecting victims and perpetrators irrespective of age, education, income or social position, and is linked to the unequal distribution of power between women and men in our society, K. whereas the types of violence perpetrated against women vary in different cultures and traditions, and whereas female genital mutilation, so-called crimes of honour and forced marriages are a reality in the EU, L. whereas situations of war and armed conflict, post-conflict reconstruction and economic, social and/or financial crises increase the vulnerability of women individually and collectively to male violence against them and should not be considered as an excuse to tolerate male violence, M. whereas trafficking in women for sexual and other purposes constitutes a fundamental violation of women's human rights, and is harmful to the individual victims as well as to society at large, N. whereas the tolerance of prostitution in Europe leads to an increase in trafficking of women into Europe for sexual purposes, and to sex tourism, O. whereas there is no regular and comparable data collection on different types of violence against women in the EU, which makes it difficult to ascertain the real extent of the phenomenon and find appropriate solutions to the problem, P. whereas the number of women victims of gender-based violence is alarming, Q. whereas the frequently distorted, consumerist image of women conveyed by the media undermines respect for human dignity, R. whereas, apart from economic dependence (which is often the case for women), important factors in female victims not reporting violence lie in the societal culture and representations suggesting that men's violence against women is a private matter or that women themselves are often to blame for such violence, S. whereas frequently, for a variety of complex psychological, financial, social, and cultural reasons, women do not report men's violence against them and are sometimes deterred from doing so by a lack of confidence in the police, the judicial system and social and medical services, T. whereas it has frequently called for the creation of a European Year for the elimination of all forms of violence against women, U. whereas the UN has declared 25 November the International Day for Elimination of Violence Against Women, and whereas an international seminar on violence against women is to be held at the European Parliament in December 2009, V. whereas there is a pressing need to introduce a comprehensive legal instrument aimed at combating all forms of violence against women in Europe, including trafficking in women, 1. Urges the Member States to improve their national laws and policies to combat all forms of violence against women, in particular through the development of comprehensive national action plans to combat violence against women, based on an analysis of the gender-equality implications of violence against women and the international treaty obligations of Member States to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women, and including concrete measures to prevent