value over and above the measures taken by Member States, as well as in other vitally important matters such as the use of seat belts and driving licences; whereas, in addition, the scope of EU action has widened and thus covers a further 80 million citizens, F. whereas the exchange of best practice has a particularly important role to play in preventing road accidents, 65% of which occur in towns, 30% out of towns and no more than 5% on motorways, G. having regard to the fact that every year, more than 40 000 deaths are caused by road traffic accidents in the EU and, in addition to the unacceptable human suffering, there are the related direct and indirect costs, estimated at EUR 180 billion or 2% of EU GNP, H. noting with satisfaction that vehicles are now four times safer than in 1970, a fact which has contributed significantly to reducing by 50% the number of deaths in the EU of 15 Member States since 1970, during a period in which traffic volumes have tripled, I. concerned by the low levels of road safety in some Member States, especially in many of the 10 new Member States; noting that, if all the Member States were to achieve the same results as the United Kingdom and Sweden, the number of fatalities would fall by 17 000 a year in the Union of 25 Member States, representing a reduction of 39% and thus a great step forward, but falling short of the 50% target, 1. Stresses the shared responsibility of all stakeholders, namely the EU, Member States, regional and local authorities, industry, organisations, and individuals to take concrete positive and coherent action to improve road safety and to halve the number of road accident victims by 2010, thereby achieving the common target; stresses that the principle of subsidiarity should be fully respected, without using it as an excuse for complacency or inaction in light of the important responsibility which Europe bears to create the necessary policy framework; 2. Welcomes the planned mid-term review by the Commission of progress made by Member States in implementing the European road safety action programme; 3. Urges the Commission to propose in its mid-term review a comprehensive and permanent EU road safety framework in which all relevant areas of road safety are detailed, targets and accompanying measures for the EU and Member States are presented and progress is measured against the targets and widely published on a yearly basis; 4. Regrets that the abovementioned Commission Communication on the European road safety action programme did not include an evaluation of the Second Road Safety Action Programme (1997-2001), as an evaluation is essential to avoid the repetition of errors; furthermore, regrets the fact that the Communication failed to address the particular road safety problems of urban areas; 5. Calls on the Commission to develop a long-term road safety concept, going beyond 2010 and describing the required steps leading to the avoidance of all fatalities and serious injuries caused by road accidents ('Vision Zero'); 6. Considers that the Commission should promote