Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (22 June 2006) 1. Studies and projects on recognition of water as a fundamental right The most recent reports issued on this theme by international organisations are: — ‘The right to water’, World Health Organisation (WHO), 2003, Geneva, Switzerland; — ‘Water as a human right?’, IUCN, 2004, Gland, Switzerland and Cambridge, United Kingdom (UK). Documents from the United Nations (UN) are also available. The most recent one is the report prepared by Mr El Hadji Guissé, Special Rapporteur of the Sub-Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights on ‘Réalisation du droit à l'eau potable et à l'assainissement’, July 2005. In addition, several other references can be found in the international scientific literature. 2. EU initiatives The discussions concerning the right to access to water and sanitation were addressed by the EU in its statement for the Ministerial Session of the Fourth World Water Forum: ‘The EU considers that water is a primary human need and that water supply and sanitation are basic social services as mentioned in the resolution of the EU Development Council adopted on 30 May 2002. The EU emphasises that public authorities must take adequate measures to make this effective and affordable.’ This is reflected in the EU water initiative, which is the EU’s contribution towards the achievement of the Millennium development goals for drinking water and sanitation within the context of an integrated approach to water resources management. 3. Funds or programmes to support this initiative At EU level, such initiatives could be funded by the Structural Funds, provided that their eligibility is foreseen by a regional programme. It should be pointed out that, in its priority concerning the environment, the regional programme of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) for Tuscany for 2000‑06 (single programming document — SPD) contributes towards the financing of projects aimed at providing and improving water infrastructure. The infrastructure in question has to ensure that the environment is improved in the areas concerned, the aim being to make better use of surface-water and ground-water resources so as to ensure that they are not depleted or contaminated. These objectives are essential for the sustainable development of the industrial areas concerned, as well as furthering the attainment of Community and national priorities relating to the environment, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and consequently job opportunities. Beyond the EU, the EU water initiative provides a framework where local authorities can play a role in the field of international cooperation for drinking water projects. In particular, local authorities are welcome to participate in the call for proposals for the second tranche of the African, Caribbean, Pacific (ACP) — EU Water Facility, launched on 31 March 2006. Regarding the other regional components of the EU water initiative (eastern Europe, Caucasus and Central Asia (EECCA); the Mediterranean and Latin America), no similar financial instruments are available.