the Statute for a European company with regard to the involvement of employees* for the purpose of reaching an agreement in line with Article 5 of Directive 2001/86/EC. ___________________ * OJ L 294, 10.11.2001, p. 22. Amendment 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 11 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (11) The SPE should not be subject to a high mandatory capital requirement since this would be a barrier to the creation of SPEs. Creditors, however, should be protected from excessive distributions to shareholders which could affect the ability of the SPE to pay its debts. To this end, distributions that leave the SPE with liabilities exceeding the value of the assets of the SPE should be prohibited. Shareholders, however, should also be free to require the management body of the SPE to sign a solvency certificate. (11) The SPE should not be subject to a high mandatory capital requirement since this would be a barrier to the creation of SPEs. Creditors, however, should be protected from distributions to shareholders which could undermine the ability of the SPE to pay its debts. To this end, distributions that leave the SPE with liabilities exceeding the value of the assets of the SPE should be prohibited. Shareholders, however, should also be free to require the management body of the SPE to sign a solvency certificate. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) Employees’ rights of participation should be governed by the legislation of the Member State in which the SPE has its registered office (the "home Member State"). The SPE should not be used for the purpose of circumventing such rights. Where the national legislation of the Member State to which the SPE transfers its registered office does not provide for at least the same level of employee participation as the home Member State, the participation of employees in the company following the transfer should in certain circumstances be negotiated. Should such negotiations fail, the provisions applying in the company before the transfer should continue to apply after the transfer. (15) Employees’ rights of participation should be governed by the legislation of the Member State in which the SPE has its registered office (the "home Member State"). The SPE should not be used for the purpose of circumventing such rights. Where the national legislation of the Member State to which the SPE transfers its registered office does not provide for at least the same level of employee participation as the home Member State, the participation of employees in the company prior to the transfer should be negotiated. Should such negotiations fail, the provisions applying in the company before the transfer should continue to apply after the transfer. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. Private-public limited liability companies formed under the law of a Member State and having registered offices within the Union may form an SPE provided that at least two of them: a) are governed by the laws of different Member