Answer given by the High Representative/Vice President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (23 August 2010) The High Representative/Vice President of the Commission would like to refer the Honourable Members to the Council’s answer ( E‑4095/10 http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB/home.jsp ) in relation to the same questions. The inauguration of the Sudanese President and the two Vice-Presidents following the election was in compliance with the procedures provided for in the Sudanese Interim Constitution and therefore represents an important step forward in the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA). The position of the EU was reaffirmed through the statement issued by the Delegation of the EU to the Sudan in which it recalled the EU's continuous commitment to supporting the full and timely implementation of the CPA, which is why the EU was represented at the inauguration of the CPA institutions. In the statement, the EU recalled that impunity for the most serious crimes under international law could never be accepted. The EU reiterated its support for the International Criminal Court (ICC) and called upon the Government of Sudan to cooperate fully with the ICC in accordance with its obligations under international law. In line with its agreed position, the EU was represented at the inauguration at Chargé d'Affaires level, as were most of the EU Member States in their bilateral capacity. In order to ensure coherence with other international stakeholders, there were close and regular contacts on this issue with the United States administration. The EU's continuous engagement in Sudan is an important element in promoting compliance by the Sudanese authorities with international law. Attendance at the inauguration ceremony underlined the EU's commitment to supporting the full implementation of the CPA whilst at the same time underlining the importance of full cooperation by the Government of Sudan with the ICC. The EU's approach to the question of attendance at the inauguration ceremony in Khartoum does not undermine the EU's support for the ICC, as set out in the Council's Conclusions of 25 May 2010 on the Review Conference of the Rome Statute of the ICC. These Conclusions underlined the importance of the Review Conference as a landmark in the life of the Court and the EU's commitment to the fight against impunity and to the ICC. This message was repeated in the EU Statement at the high level segment of the Conference on 31 May 2010.