Question for oral answer O-000317/2011 to the Commission Rule 115 Cornelis de Jong , Cornelia Ernst on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group Subject: New Romanian Civil Code and free movement of LGBT persons Article 277 of the new Civil Code of Romania (RCC), which entered into force on 1 October 2011, deals with the 'Prohibition or equivalence of forms of cohabitation with marriage'. Does the Commission agree that: - the explicit prohibition of same-sex marriage (Art. 277(1) RCC) or partnership or of their recognition when contracted abroad (Art. 277(2) and (3) RCC) in civil codes or constitutions is a discriminatory provision, as it targets same-sex couples and persons on the basis of their sexual orientation and cements such discrimination in the fundamental laws of the state? - the explicit prohibition of the recognition of same-sex marriages and of civil partnerships, both of the opposite sex or the same sex, contracted abroad (Art. 277(2) and (3) RCC), regardless of the mentioning of the free movement provisions (Art. 277(4) RCC), runs counter to EU citizens' fundamental right to carry their civil status with them when moving from Member State A to Member State B, as stated by Commissioner Reding during her speech of 7 September 2010 in the European Parliament? - the new Civil Code creates a situation of legal uncertainty and contradiction between Art. 277(1), (2) and (3) RCC on the one hand and Art. 277(4) RCC on the other , as the application of Art. 2 of Directive 2004/38/EC defining family members (which includes 'spouse') and of Art. 3 on the duty of facilitation of entry and residence could be nullified or applied in a way that denies free movement to same-sex spouses and partners and to opposite-sex partners, on the basis of the recognition prohibition? - these provisions are contrary to the values and the spirit of the Treaties and the principle of equality and non-discrimination, and risk creating an intolerant and homophobic climate while at the same time hampering the right to free movement of EU citizens within the EU? - it should take out infringement proceedings against Romania and other Member States to ensure that the free movement directive is fully respected and applied without discrimination based on sexual orientation, and that citizens' fundamental rights are fully respected?