Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (22 December 2008) The Honourable Member raises concerns about the project for the extension of the Port of Tarifa, in the province of Cádiz, Spain. He also highlights the possible negative effects of this project on the environment and asks the Commission to ensure compliance with EC environmental legislation. It should be noted that the present Port of Tarifa is located outside, but adjacent to, the site of Community importance (SCI) ES0000337 ‘Estrecho’, that belongs to the Mediterranean biogeographical region of the Natura 2000 network, established in accordance with the provisions of the Habitats Directive 92/43/EEC OJ L 206, 22.7.1992. on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora. The Commission is of the view that the procedures laid down in Article 6 of Directive 92/43/ECC regarding the safeguards and assessments governing plans and projects likely to affect Natura 2000 sites, concern not only plans and projects located within but also outside of protected sites. According to the provisions of Article 6(3) and 6(4) any plan or project that will likely have an effect on the side must be assessed regarding the implications on the site. In light of the required assessment, the competent authorities should decide if the project can be undertaken and if so, the conditions and safeguards that must be observed to maintain the integrity of the site regarding the site's conservation objectives. Directive 85/337/EEC OJ L 175, 5.7.1985. of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment as amended by Directive 97/11/EC OJ L 073, 14.3.1997. and Directive 2003/35/EC OJ L 156, 25.6.2003. (known as the Environmental Impact Assessment or EIA Directive) makes provisions for the carrying out of an EIA for certain public and private projects. The EIA procedure ensures that environmental consequences of projects are identified and assessed before authorisation is given by the competent authority (known as the development consent). The public and environmental authorities can give their opinion and all the results of the consultations must be taken into consideration. The public must be informed subsequently of the content of the development consent. It should be noted that the EIA procedure can also be a tool to apply the provisions of Article 6 of the Habitats Directive. According to the information available, the project for the extension of the Port of Tarifa is in the process of being assessed by the competent Spanish authorities. In effect, the EIA procedure is ongoing according to the provisions of the EIA Directive. It is important to note that, before the possible development consent for this project is granted, the competent authorities will have to issue their statement regarding, inter alia , the impacts of this project on the SCI and on protected species under the Habitats Directive. In conclusion, according to the available information, the Commission understands that the competent authorities have not yet taken a final decision regarding the project. Since the procedures established by EC legislation seem to be ongoing, at this