case of doubt the President may apply Rule 179(2) prior to the announcement in Parliament of referral to the committee responsible. Where a proposal is listed in the Annual Legislative Programme the committee responsible may decide to appoint a rapporteur to follow the preparatory phase of the proposal. Consultations by the Council or requests from the Commission for an opinion shall be forwarded by the President to the committee responsible for consideration of the proposal concerned. The provisions for the first reading as set out in Rules 34 to 37, 49 to 56 and 66 shall apply to legislative proposals whether they require one, two or three readings. 2. Common positions from the Council shall be referred for consideration to the committee responsible at the first reading. The provisions for the second reading as set out in Rules 57 to 62 and 67 shall apply to common positions. 3. During the conciliation procedure between Parliament and the Council following the second reading, no referral back to committee shall take place. The provisions for the third reading as set out in Rules 63, 64 and 65 shall apply to the conciliation procedure. 4. Rules 42, 43, 46, 51(1) and (3), 52, 53 and 168 shall not apply during the second and third readings. 5. In the event of a conflict between a provision of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second and third readings and any other provision of the Rules, the provision relating to the second and third readings shall take precedence. Rule 41 Consultation on initiatives originating from a Member State 1. Initiatives originating from a Member State pursuant to Article 67(1) of the EC Treaty or Articles 34(2) and 42 of the EU Treaty shall be dealt with pursuant to this Rule and to Rules 34 to 37, 40 and 51. 2. The committee responsible may invite a representative of the originating Member State to present its initiative to the committee. The representative may be accompanied by the Presidency of the Council. 3. Before the committee responsible proceeds to the vote, it shall ask the Commission whether it has prepared a position on the initiative and if so request the Commission to state its position to the committee. 4. When two or more proposals (originating from the Commission and/or the Member States) with the same legislative objective have been submitted to Parliament simultaneously or within a short period of time, Parliament shall deal with them in a single report. In its report, the committee responsible shall indicate to which text it has proposed amendments and it shall refer to all other texts in the legislative resolution. 5. The time period referred to in Article 39(1) of the EU Treaty shall commence when it is announced in plenary that Parliament has received, in the official languages, an initiative, together with an explanatory statement confirming the initiative's conformity with the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality annexed to the EC Treaty. CHAPTER 2 PROCEDURE IN COMMITTEE Rule 42 Legislative reports 1. The chairman of the committee