that in democratic societies the public legislative process is the responsibility of representative bodies elected by the people, and cannot be replaced by self-regulatory or co-regulatory systems run by parties with an economic stake in the outcome. Paragraph 5 Is aware of the fact that Community law adopted through the Union’s legislative powers (Parliament and the Council) must be sufficiently precise to allow it to be applied by the Union’s executive (the Commission) and by national executive bodies with the greatest possible degree of harmonisation in order to reduce the possibility of divergent interpretations. Legislative delegation to executive bodies must in all cases be subject to the control of the legislative authority, which must retain the possibility of taking back legislative power if the executive bodies do not apply the law in a precise manner. 6 November 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON THE ENVIRONMENT, PUBLIC HEALTH AND CONSUMER POLICY for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Commission White Paper on European governance ( COM(2001) 428 – C5-0454/2001 – 2001/2181(COS)) Draftsman: Caroline F. Jackson PROCEDURE The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy appointed Caroline F. Jackson draftsman at its meeting of 12 September 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meeting of 5 November 2001. At the latter it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Guido Sacconi, acting chairman; Alexander de Roo, vice-chairman; Caroline F. Jackson, draftsman; Per-Arne Arvidsson, María del Pilar Ayuso González, John Bowis, Chris Davies, Laura González Álvarez, Robert Goodwill, Cristina Gutiérrez Cortines, Christa Klaß, Hans Kronberger, Torben Lund, Rosemarie Müller, Riitta Myller, Marit Paulsen, Giacomo Santini, Phillip Whitehead. SHORT JUSTIFICATION The introduction of new policy tools could, in general, lead to greater flexibility and to faster and less detailed legislation, but could also open the door to weak and unclear regulation, to a weakening of the Community's collective endeavour and a lack of democratic control. Recourse to new policy tools must, in any case, be accompanied by a careful look, instrument by instrument, at systems of democratic accountability (to the European Parliament, in particular) and their adequacy. Strong democratic legitimacy of EU law must be safeguarded in all cases. Therefore, greater use of alternative regulatory instruments, including framework directives as well as self- and co-regulatory arrangements require full backing of Council and Parliament acting as co-legislative authorities, both at the initial (as to the choice of instruments) and subsequent stages (as to the quality of the proposed arrangement). Framework directives concentrating on a limited set of essential requirements might be a good idea in theory, but they could be difficult to implement in practice. A key feature of the New Approach Internal Market Directives in the 1980's was to have less detailed directives, but they had only limited success. When framework directives do not go into details, implementing "comitology" measures can contain sensitive political and commercial issues which merit close Parliamentary scrutiny and cannot be delegated to executives. The European Parliament's role will need to be reinforced if greater reliance is made on such measures, as is