home too long without any kind of income and a long period away makes the return to the labour market more difficult. We make a balanced and sensible proposal, corresponding to the expectations of people, of families and of women. Moreover, working part-time may seem a good solution but when women reach retirement age, they find themselves penalised, exactly because they stayed home to take care of children or worked part-time. There are studies indicating that the gap between women and men's remuneration gets even bigger when retirement comes. Women’s poverty is greater in old age. What do you expect to be the future of paternity and maternity? We should promote and adopt more and more policies and measures aimed at the sharing of professional and public responsibilities. I defend paternity leave because it is not contemplated in European legislation, although it already exists in many member states, in order to fight the idea that the responsibility for the education and follow-up of children is exclusively female. In Northern countries, a man who does not share parental leave and is not present at home is considered a bad father. In the South, a man who takes parental leave is considered a bad worker. This will allow a better harmony, taking into account the children’s interests, women will be able to have children earlier and have the number of children they want, as studies indicate that Europeans don’t have the children they would like. I am for the sharing of all types of responsibility. Committee vote 23 Feb: Extending maternity leave to 20 weeks fully paid Legislative Observatory Women's Rights and Gender Equality Committee Profile - Edite Estrela MEP Flickr photos Jean Lambert on Asylum: MEPs set to back EU Support Office MEP Jean Lambert believes the Asylum Office is a major step forward Office to help coordinate European response Based in under pressure Malta The EU received over 250,000 asylum applications in 2008. To get a common system to deal with asylum requests MEPs are likely to give the green light on Tuesday for the creation of a European Asylum Support Office. To be based in Valletta in Malta, the office will help European Government's raise standards "so that people who are in need of protection actually get a fair deal", explains Jean Lambert MEP who is steering the measure through Parliament. Her report will be put to the vote Tuesday at 12. Jean Lambert, why does the EU need an asylum support office and what will it be tasked with? The EU needs the Office because at the moment we have a huge divergence between the way in which different member states deliver the asylum laws and asylum directives. From Governments which have a system which hardly ever grants refugee status to that where they have a fully fledged really competent system The office by itself won't be enough, but it will be a help. One of the particular roles it has is to try and give a more standardised version of information about the country of origin of those seeking