the failure to determine the value of its liabilities in accordance with the regulations. Regulation 27 prescribes that the company must hold sufficient assets in a particular currency to cover the company’s liabilities in that particular currency only if the company’s liabilities in that particular currency exceed 5% of its total liabilities. According to the Directive, by contrast, there is no 5% leeway before the matching obligation is triggered, but this is not a departure from the Directive’s matching obligation because the Directive itself allows Member States to introduce exceptions to that obligation. Link to the ELAS case There are two aspects connecting this article to the ELAS case: first, the ‘entire business’ argument, linked to the optional reserving of discretionary bonuses, and second, the issue of PRE, which appears once again. 1. ' Entire business' argument and optional reserving of discretionary bonuses Article 18 required the UK to ensure that Equitable Life established sufficient technical provisions, including mathematical provisions, in respect of its entire business, using a sufficiently prudent prospective actuarial valuation (this article therefore reiterates the ‘entire business’ requirement, already mentioned explicitly in Article 8). Neither the Directive nor UK legislation elaborate any further on the meaning of "prudent valuation", which is left for actuarial judgement. This is an important point, given that what ELAS did was to build up reserves for reversionary bonuses WE 79 claims that ELAS did not even reserve prudently enough for future guaranteed bonuses to which holders of investment policies were contractually entitled nor did they make proper provision for guarantees in the contracts (such as GARs). (those already declared bonuses which are contractual benefits) but did not reserve for future reversionary bonuses and terminal bonuses, which are given at the discretion of the insurance company. According to some of the evidence received, this lack of reserving was one of the reasons for the company's downfall The ruling of the House of Lords on the Hyman case ( Equitable Life Assurance Society v. Hyman [2000] 3 WLR 529.) was the event that sparked ELAS’ misfortune. The House of Lords ruled that ELAS did not have discretion under its articles of association to adopt a differential bonus policy according to whether a policy holder with a guaranteed annuity rate option (GAR) decided to take benefits at guaranteed rates rather than current rates. This meant that ELAS could not reduce the size of the final bonuses paid to its GAR policyholders and had to pay them what had been promised. But ELAS had no money to do so: it had not properly reserved for final bonuses and GAR liabilities throughout the years, creating an ever-growing asset shortfall. Proper reserving might have avoided or reduced the extent of the catastrophe. . The importance of these bonuses and their link to the GAR issue is explained at length in Part I (Introduction) and Part III (Regulatory issues). The Directive only requires that future liabilities include, apart from all guaranteed benefits, bonuses to which policyholders are already either collectively or individually entitled, however those bonuses are described - vested, declared