of penalties for infringements OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 11. , supplemented by Council Framework Decision 2005/667/JHA of 12 July 2005 to strengthen the criminal-law framework for the enforcement of the law against ship-source pollution OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 164. . ( 5 ) The international regimes in respect of civil liability and compensation of third parties for damage related to maritime transport should be implemented and improved in order to guarantee that operators in the maritime transport chain ensure that goods are only transported on board ships of the highest standard , to ensure fair compensation of victims who are not party to the maritime transport chain and to encourage operators and their representatives to exercise greater vigilance and professionalism . ( 6 ) It is appropriate that the 1996 Protocol to the 1976 Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims (the 1996 Convention) be ratified by all Member States and by a large number of third countries. (7) It is also appropriate that the 1996 International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea (the HNS Convention), the 2001 International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage (the Bunker Oil Convention) and the 2007 Wreck Removal Convention be ratified by all Member States and by a large number of third countries. ( 8 ) In order to ensure the full and uniform application of the 1996 Convention throughout the European Union, it is appropriate to incorporate it into Community law. The Community regime of civil liability should enable shipowners to limit their liability to the ceilings laid down in that Convention and in accordance with the provisions thereof. (9) It should not be possible to apply the limitation of liability under the 1996 Convention to victims not party to the maritime transport operation, if the owner of the ship responsible for the damage has failed to act in a professional manner and should have been aware of the harmful effects of his act or omission. ( 10 ) The obligation to have a financial guarantee should make it possible to ensure better protection of victims. It will also help to eliminate substandard ships and make it possible to re-establish competition between operators. Such an obligation is a necessary complement to the 1996 Convention. In Resolution A.898(21) , the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) recommended that States make financial guarantees obligatory. The level of insurance cover should be such as to address situations where the ceilings set by the 1996 Convention are insufficient, without imposing a disproportionate burden on the industry. ( 11 ) Special measures should be taken in order to protect seafarers in the event of abandonment, on the basis of IMO Resolution A.930(22) . ( 12 ) The establishment of certificates proving the existence of a financial guarantee is a key element of this Directive, as are the notification of these certificates, mutual recognition of certificates between Member States and the accessibility of the financial guarantee to victims seeking compensation. ( 13 ) The