Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (26 May 2008) At the end of March 2008, the Italian authorities informed the Commission of the findings of contamination of buffalo mozzarella cheese originating from the Campania region by dioxins and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) above the EU maximum levels. Investigations are still ongoing to determine the precise source of contamination. A control programme to ensure that contaminated milk produced in the area is not entering the food chain has been elaborated by the Italian authorities. The control plan was accepted by the relevant services of the Commission. The consumer confidence in the safety of the mozzarella cheese was seriously shaken as a consequence of this contamination incident. To protect public health and to regain consumer trust in the safety of buffalo mozzarella cheese, it is necessary to ensure that all buffalo mozzarella cheese placed on the market is compliant with EU legislation. Therefore, the buffalo milk and derived products thereof, in particular buffalo mozzarella cheese, can not be placed on the market until the analytical results on the buffalo milk are available and favourable. This measure will not result in serious economic damage if the sampling and analysis are carried out in an effective way. A possible economic damage due to the measures will in any case not be larger than the possible damage caused by the decrease of consumer confidence in the safety of mozzarella cheese, which would result in market loss. On 11 April 2008, the Italian authorities informed the Commission that on the basis of favourable analytical results, the buffalo milk originating from 486 farms could be declared compliant with EU legislation and could be placed on the market as well the products derived thereof. The competent authorities of the Member States were satisfied with the measures taken to manage the contamination incident and third countries have lifted their restrictive measures as regards mozzarella cheese from Italy from the moment these protective measures were put in place by the Italian authorities. As regards the medium and long term strategy, the Italian authorities have confirmed to pursue the abovementioned investigations to determine the precise sources of contamination. Once the sources are identified, measures will be taken to eliminate these sources of contamination to prevent lastingly the contamination of the feed and food chain by dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs in the Campania region.