post-Soviet states. The nomination says "Memorial promotes the truth about the political repression of the Soviet Union and fights against current human rights abuses in post-Soviet states to ensure their democratic future". Nominated by Rebecca Harms and Daniel Cohn-Bendit on behalf of Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Memorial - Organisation promoting fundamental rights in post-Soviet states, whose first leader was Andrei Sakharov. The nomination argues that "Memorial should be rewarded for its continued essential work in EU neighbouring countries monitoring the situation in countries of actual or potential conflict and human rights abuse in Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Tajikistan, Moldova and Ukraine." Mr Saryusz-Wolski proposed that the nomination of Memorial be considered as a cross-party initiative. Nominated by Jacek Saryusz-Wolski (EPP, PL) and 59 others. Dr Denis Mukwege - This gynaecologist, the founder and head of Panzi Hospital in Bukavu (DR Congo), has dedicated his life to helping Congolese women and girls who are victims of gang rape and brutal sexual violence. "Dr Mukwege helped to bring global attention to what is described as an 'epidemic' of sexual violence in the eastern DRC, where combatants were using the systematic rape of women and girls as a means of terrorizing and displacing the civilian population." Nominated by Guy Verhofsdtadt on behalf of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Group (ALDE). Father Thaddeus Nguyen Van Ly - Roman Catholic priest and prominent Vietnamese dissident involved in pro-democracy movements, for which he was imprisoned for almost 15 years. The Sakharov Prize would not only honour his peaceful campaign but would also send a strong message to the Vietnamese authorities, say his supporters. Nominated by Michael Gahler (EPP, DE) and 44 other MEPs. Shadi Sadr on behalf of Neda and Iranian citizens striving for respect for human rights - Iranian human rights attorney, feminist, activist and journalist. A campaigner for the abolition of the death penalty and stoning as well as for women's rights. According to the supporting statement, "Ms. Sadr has been championing fundamental human rights for years under a repressive Iranian regime". Nominated by Marietje Schaake (ALDE, NL), Barbara Lochbihler (Greens/EFA, DE) and 38 other MEPs. Roberto Saviano - Italian journalist and writer, threatened by the mafia as a consequence of his uncompromising attacks on organised crime. His supporters say, "freedom of thought is also damaged in Europe. His nomination would be a strong signal to the criminal organizations." Nominated by Sonia Alfano (ALDE, IT) and 39 other MEPs. Next steps 6 Oct 2009 A shortlist of three finalists chosen by Foreign Affairs and Development Committees 22 Oct 2009 Decision of the Conference of Presidents (EP political group leaders) on the winner 14 Dec 2009 Joint meeting of Foreign Affairs and Development Committees and Human Rights Subcomittee with the winner 16 Dec 2009 Official award ceremony at plenary sitting in Strasbourg Past winners of the Sakharov Prize 1988 - Nelson Mandela, Anatoli Marchenko (awarded posthumously) 1989 - Alexander Dubček 1990 - Aung San Suu Kyi 1991 - Adem Demaçi 1992 - Las Madres de la Plaza de Mayo 1993 - Oslobodjenje 1994