WRITTEN QUESTION E-0301/09 by Roberta Angelilli (UEN) to the Commission (29 January 2009) Subject: Development plan for the port of Ancona: possible violation of European regulations on EIAs and SEAs In 1988, the Italian Ministry of Public Works approved the development plan for the port of Ancona. All the works completed and scheduled so far conform to the provisions and guidelines of the subsequent implementing plan, issued in 1997. That implementing plan provided for the construction of an outer sea wall with an entrance to the port, an outer breakwater to protect the new dock and a straight quay, without making any provision for the demolition of two thirds of the north dock, as specified in the 1988 development plan. As a result of navigational tests conducted by the Genoa‑based Centre for Technical Naval Studies (CETENA), a new port development plan was proposed which showed that navigability would only be enhanced if the two‑thirds of the north dock were demolished. That plan was adopted by the port committee which, in its subsequently‑adopted ruling No 108 of 20 September 2005, requested that meteorological‑marine studies be incorporated into the approval procedure, with the findings of those studies showing that, in the event of the dock being demolished, alternative solutions had to be implemented for the offshore structures in order to ensure that vessels could moor safely. However, that amendment to the port development plan conforms neither to the regulations on assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment, governed by the SEA Directive, nor to the regulations concerning environmental impact assessments (EIAs). Furthermore, it transpires that there was never any consultation of the public in the municipality of Macerata during the introductory phase of the procedure, as is stipulated in the relevant rules. In the light of the above, can the Commission: 1. Indicate whether, in accordance with the applicable Community legislation, the environmental impact assessment (EIA) and strategic environmental assessment (SEA) have been conducted, in anticipation of the demolition of the two‑thirds of the north dock? 2. Give an overview of the situation?