the report from the Commission to the European Council: Better Lawmaking - A Shared Responsibility (1998) (( COM(1998) 715 - C5-0266/2000 - 1999/2197(COS)) and on the Commission report to the European Council: Better Lawmaking 1999 - (( COM(1999) 562 - C5-0279/1999 - 1999/2197(COS)). Draftsman: Max van den Berg, A5-0269/2000 . . This proposal is becoming increasingly relevant, and I would take this opportunity to stress its importance once again. 3. GREATER INVOLVEMENT In the White Paper, the Commission indicated that, as part of its efforts to improve the provision of information, it intended to make EUR-Lex a single on-line point for all the institutions, where people could follow policy proposals throughout the decision-making process. Although the user-friendliness and completeness of EUR-Lex have improved, there are still many other portals belonging to the various institutions (OEIL, CELEX, Prelex). This is confusing for the public. Moreover, not all the portals can be used free of charge. It would be better to create a single on-line point for all the institutions. The communication, 'Towards a reinforced culture of consultation and dialogue' Towards a reinforced culture of consultation and dialogue - General principles and minimum standards for consultation of interested parties by the Commission ( COM(2002) 704 final). , sets out the general principles and minimum standards for consultation of third parties by the Commission. The aim is to ensure that such consultation takes place in a coherent, efficient, transparent and flexible manner. Existing consultation instruments are the Interactive Policy-Making Initiative (IPM), which gathers public responses via the Internet and analyses them, and CONECCS, a database for advisory bodies. Making these portals user-friendly is a first step towards bringing Europe closer to the public. There is certainly a need for greater openness and democratic consultation of the organisations of civil society. All the institutions accordingly maintain intensive contact with nongovernmental organisations by means of hearings etc. An Interinstitutional Agreement laying down and thus standardising minimum rules for consultation for all the institutions would be highly desirable in the interests of the European citizens. This communication on consultation by the Commission is certainly a step in the right direction and could perhaps form the basis for such an agreement. However, such consultation must not replace parliamentary democracy in Europe. The organisations of civil society are not, after all, elected by the public. The European Parliament, which consists of representatives directly elected by the citizens, is the most appropriate body to exercise the legislative function jointly with the Council, acting on proposals initiated by the Commission. In addition, it is important to point out that there are various bodies which enable the consultation process to be conducted in a professional manner, such as the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. In 2001, the Commission concluded cooperation protocols with these two committees laying down the principles of proper administration and cooperation procedures. The aim of the protocols is to enhance the committees' advisory function. For example, the Commission may ask them to deliver exploratory opinions about subjects falling within their purview. Another important aspect of