directive Article 6 Article 6 deleted Derogation If the application is submitted by a third-country national of less than 30 years of age and holding higher education qualifications, the following derogations shall apply: (a) Member States shall consider fulfilled the condition set out in Article 5(2) if the gross monthly salary offered corresponds to at least two–thirds of the national salary threshold defined in accordance with Article 5(2); (b) Member States may waive the salary requirement provided for in Article 5(2) on condition that the applicant has completed higher education on site studies and obtained a Bachelor and a Master's degree in a higher education institution situated on the territory of the Community; (c) Member States shall not require proof of professional experience in addition to the higher education qualifications, unless this is necessary to fulfil the conditions set out under national legislation for the exercise by EU citizens of the regulated profession specified in the work contract or binding job offer of work. Amendment 32 Proposal for a directive Article 8 − paragraph 2 2. The initial validity of an EU Blue Card shall be of two years and shall be renewed for at least the same duration. If the work contract covers a period less than two years, the EU Blue Card shall be issued for the duration of the work contract plus three months. 2. The initial validity of an EU Blue Card shall be of three years and shall be renewed for at least another two . If the work contract covers a period of less than three years, the EU Blue Card shall be issued for the duration of the work contract plus six months. Amendment 33 Proposal for a directive Article 8 - paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. After 36 months of legal residence in a Member State as holder of an EU Blue Card, the person concerned shall be allowed to carry out highly qualified employment in another Member State while residing in the first Member State. Further details on cross-border commuting are to be drawn up in Directive .../.../EC [on a single application procedure for a single permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State]. Amendment 34 Proposal for a directive Article 9 − paragraph 2 − subparagraph 1 2. Before taking the decision on an application for an EU Blue Card, Member States may examine the situation of their labour market and apply their national procedures regarding the requirements for filling a vacancy. 2. Before taking the decision on an application for an EU Blue Card, Member States may examine the situation of their labour market and apply national and Community procedures regarding the requirements for filling a vacancy. Their discretionary decision shall take account of national and regional demand for labour. Amendment 35 Proposal for a directive Article 9 − paragraph 2 − subparagraph 1 a (new) Member States may reject an application for an EU Blue Card in