an objective of general European interest . Article 10 Committee 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee") 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply. 3. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply. The period laid down in Article 4 (3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at 3 months. 4. The Committee shall adopt its Rules of Procedure. Article 11 Complementarity 1. Synergies and complementarity with other Community instruments shall be sought, particularly the Framework programmes “Security and Safeguarding Liberties” and “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows”, as well as the programme “Progress." Complementarity with the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, shall be secured. The statistical element of information on fundamental rights and citizenship shall be developed in collaboration with Member States, on the basis of available data using as necessary the Community Statistical Programme. 2. The programme may share resources with other Community instruments, in particular the general programmes “Security and Safeguards Liberties” and “Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows” in order to implement actions meeting the objectives of all programmes. 3. Operations financed under this Decision shall not receive assistance for the same purpose from other Community financial instruments. It shall be ensured that the beneficiaries of this Decision shall provide the Commission with information about funding received from the Community budget and from other sources, as well as information about ongoing applications for funding. Article 12 Budgetary Resources The budgetary resources allocated to the actions provided for in this programme shall be entered in the annual appropriations of the general budget of the European Union. The available annual appropriations shall be authorised by the budgetary authority within the limits of the financial framework. Article 13 Monitoring 1. The Commission shall ensure that for any action financed by the programme, the beneficiary shall submit, technical and financial reports on the progress of work. A final report shall also be submitted within three months of the completion of the action. The Commission shall determine the form and content of the reports. 2. The Commission shall ensure that contracts and agreements resulting from the implementation of the programme will provide in particular for supervision and financial control by the Commission (or any representative authorized by it), if necessary by means of on-the-spot checks , including sample checks and audits by the Court of Auditors. 3. The Commission shall ensure that for a period of five years following the last payment in respect of any action, the beneficiary of financial assistance shall keep available for the Commission all the supporting documents regarding expenditure on the action. 4. On the basis of the results of the reports and sample checks referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission shall ensure that, if necessary, the scale or the conditions of allocation of the financial assistance originally approved and also the timetable for payments will be adjusted. 5. The Commission shall ensure that every other step necessary