by the Governing Council. Because policy-makers face a complex and uncertain world, the honest approach to communication can often seem complicated. However, it is only by being honest about the difficulties that policy-makers face that the central bank can truthfully explain policy decisions and thereby achieve genuine transparency. Having said that, I believe that there is no single way to achieve transparency. The ECB has chosen to hold a monthly press conference immediately after the Governing Council meeting conveying the overall discussion in the Council and the main economic arguments underlying the decisions. The Introductory Statement of the President and the possibility for journalists to address questions directly to the President and the Vice-President makes the ECB’s approach to communication extremely timely and transparent. A comparison of different approaches to transparency remains very difficult, mainly because different institutions might have different histories, policy objectives and institutional frameworks. 19. Don't you think that it is high time for the Executive Board of the ECB to enlarge the range of views and backgrounds within it? After 5 years of existence of the ECB, shouldn't we now broaden the scope of the Board, and not rely exclusively on central bankers? I am personally very open in this respect. My own background and experience can be defined as a combination of academic, advisory and central banking activities. More importantly, the Treaty and the Statute are quite clear: Art. 11.2 of the Statute unambiguously states the requirements for qualifying for the Executive Board of the ECB as: ‘recognised standing and professional experience in monetary or banking matters’. While it is not surprising that central bankers almost by definition fulfil these criteria, this by no means excludes a non-central banker from being appointed. ANNEX 3 EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs Confirmation hearing of Mr José Manuel González-Páramo, candidate to be a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank Meeting of Tuesday, 6 April 2004 OPENING STATEMENT Madam Chairwoman, Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen: it is an honour for me to appear before you for this hearing. In my opening statement I am going to say a few words on three subjects. First I will focus on my career and experience. Then I will address a number of issues relating to the role of the European Central Bank. Finally, I will briefly comment on two of the main future challenges for monetary policy, namely enhancing the potential for growth and managing the enlargement of the European Union. I shall now switch to the language in which I feel most comfortable, my mother tongue. It has frequently been said that the Executive Board of the European Central Bank needed to broaden the professional experience and profile of its members. I believe that the current composition of the Board encompasses a wide range of views, especially if account is taken of the requirements laid down in the Treaty on European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the