actual amounts of real aid delivered, J. whereas the UN is carrying out needs assessments across the affected areas, but many areas affected by the tsunami remain difficult to access, particularly in Sumatra, K. whereas Commissioner Michel visited Sri Lanka and Indonesia from 1 to 6 January 2005, attending the coordination conference convened by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations in Jakarta on 6 January alongside President Barroso and Prime Minister Juncker, L. whereas Louis Michel suggested that the UN hold an international conference for donors, which was agreed by all parties, to be held on 11 January in Geneva, 1. Expresses its sorrow at the tragic loss of life and its deepest sympathy for the bereaved, both in the affected countries and across the world, including EU citizens that have lost family and friends; 2. Welcomes the generosity of all donors, public and private, in responding to this crisis, reflecting a globalisation of solidarity displayed particularly by members of the public; urges the EU and Member States to fulfil their pledges as quickly as possible; 3. Stresses that the children orphaned by the disaster must be one of the key priorities for relief agencies, as they are at increasing risk of abduction as well as physical and sexual abuse; 4. Calls on the governments of the countries affected by the disaster to facilitate the work of humanitarian organisations in distributing aid by making every possible effort to secure access to aid for all those in need, whatever the political beliefs, ethnicity or religion of the victims, and by minimising bureaucracy for aid agencies; 5. Hopes that the disaster brings a solution to internal conflicts in Indonesia and Sri Lanka closer; 6. Welcomes the EU's rapid disbursement of the initial € 23 m, as well as the involvement of ECHO experts in the relief effort; further welcomes the mobilisation of the European Community Civil Protection Mechanism which has been active since the tsunami occurred, as well as the supporting work of the European Commission’s Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC) which has coordinated this assistance; 7. Calls on the Commission to be generous in its use of the € 200 m emergency reserve, but to obtain an assurance from the Council that there will be new and fresh money for the emergency reserve if it is needed in 2005; stresses, in this regard, that aid given to the disaster relief must come out of the emergency reserve and must not replace rehabilitation and structural development assistance as approved in the 2005 budget; stresses that the poor across the world should not pay the price of this disaster; 8. Insists that all coordination of the global relief operation must be led by the UN's Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and supported by all donors, and welcomes the EU's full support for the UN and its commitment to funding OCHA in the region; 9. Calls on the UN Secretary-General to appoint UN humanitarian coordinators for each of the countries affected by the tsunami, with clear responsibilities to direct all other UN agencies