information from the database and to assure the protection of personal data for the entire duration of testing and migration from SIS I to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II)." Amendment 11 Proposal for a Regulation - amending act Article 1 – point 4 Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 Article 17 a – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Without prejudice to the respective responsibilities and activities of the Commission, France and the Member States participating in SIS 1+, a group of technical experts, called the Global Programme Management Board (hereinafter the “GPMB”), is hereby set up. The GPMB shall provide a forum for coordination of the central and national SIS II projects. 1. Without prejudice to the respective responsibilities and activities of the Commission, France and the Member States participating in SIS 1+, a group of technical experts, called the Global Programme Management Board (hereinafter the “GPMB”), is hereby set up. The GPMB shall provide a forum for assistance to the development of C en tral SIS II. It sh all facilitate consistency and provide for coordination of the central and national SIS II projects. Justification The GPMB should have a more clearly defined remit, to enable it to play an active role in managing the development of the second-generation SIS and the migration process. Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 4 Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 Article 17 a – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The GPMB shall be composed of a maximum of 10 experts . A maximum of eight experts and an equal number of alternates shall be designated by the Member States acting within the Council. Two experts and two alternates shall be designated by the Director General of the responsible Directorate-General of the Commission from among Commission officials. Other Commission officials with an interest in the proceedings may attend meetings of the GPMB. 2. The GPMB shall be composed of a maximum of 10 members who shall be qualified to contribute actively to the development of SIS II and who shall meet on a regular basis . A maximum of eight members and an equal number of alternates shall be designated by the Member States acting within the Council. A maximum of two members and two alternates shall be designated by the Director General of the Commission Directorate-General responsible from among Commission officials. I nterested Members or relevant staff of the European Parliament, experts from Member States and Commission officials directly involved in the development of the SIS II projects may attend GPMB meetings at the expense of their respective administration or institution. The GPMB may invite other experts to participate in GPMB meetings as defined in the terms of reference, at the expense of their respective administration, institution or company. Amendment 13 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 4 Regulation (EC) No 1104/2008 Article 17 a – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. The GPMB shall draw up its own terms of reference.