instruments, via a new Article 17a. The GPMB is a group of 10 technical experts - 8 from the Member States and 2 Commission officials. It was created in order to better coordinate Commission's and Member States works during the migration process. In its conclusions on the further direction of SIS II of 4/5 June 2009 the Council had asked the Commission to enhance the IT management structure and to further integrate the GPMB in the management structure. Its integration in the legal basis would also allow for its administrative costs and travel expenses to be financed from the Community budget. Position of the rapporteur The rapporteur would like to recall that the European Parliament already regretted on several occasions all the delays on the SIS II project. The latest occasion was on the 22nd October 2009, with the approval of a Resolution on the progress of the Schengen Information II and the Visa Information System. Once more, the European Parliament expressed deep concern with the delays on the start of operations of the SIS II. It asked, also, to be informed by the Commission and the Council on the test results and future steps, immediately after the completion of the milestone 1 test, which was originally planned for December 2009. Parliament also called for full transparency as regards the implementation process of SIS II. In the meantime the milestone 1 test was postponed from December 2009 to the end of January 2010. The tests in January 2010 were not very successful; the evaluation of the test results is still ongoing. Possibly the milestone 1 test will have to be repeated before final conclusions can be drawn. The rapporteur makes the following recommendations: - Given the serious time delays and cost-overruns in the SIS II project the legal basis should state that any technical solution must be based on the best available technology and comply with the criteria of a clear timetable and cost-effectiveness. - The sunset clause should remain. The Commission should be granted some flexibility to adapt the dates through comitology, in order to adapt the legal framework to an alternative scenario if the SIS II project is not successful. - It is essential to keep the migration process under parliamentary scrutiny: Parliament is the co-legislator for the SIS II legal basis; Parliament also forms part of the budgetary authority, which supervises the migration, financed from the Community budget. - For the same reasons Parliament should no longer be excluded from the decision-making as regards migration; before switching over to the new system Parliament should be fully informed on the test results and issue a favourable opinion. - As the date of completion of the migration process and the technical solution are not yet certain, the legislator must ensure that the legal framework intended for SIS II applies, regardless of potential technical problems that will determine the choice of the final technical solution. The creation of the GPMB and its formal integration into the SIS II management structure, can be seem as a positive step in order to enhance the