The overall purpose of these programmes has been two-fold: (a) to promote HRD for their own sake, as a political good that will improve the lives of citizens by bringing more freedom, political representation and government accountability; (b) to support the idea that the promotion of human rights and democracy is an essential part of the process of furthering sustainable social and economic development. 2. Most of the Council Regulations adopted in the area of external aid included HRD related objectives; in 1994, at EP´s request, the "European Initiative for Human Rights" (EIDHR) was launched by gathering together resources explicitly earmarked for the promotion of HRD (mainly from geographic regulations : Phare, Tacis, ALA, MEDA, ). 3. In 1999, in order to create the necessary legal basis for external actions and the implementation of budgetary funds, the Council adopted 2 regulations (975/1999 for developing countries, 976/1999 for third countries). These expired at the end of 2004 but were prolonged until the end of 2006, this time with one of them (developing countries) under the co-decision procedure. 4. In the past, (since 1980), the Commission had engaged an external foundation, the European Human Rights Foundation (EHRF), to provide technical assistance in the management of several of the human rights budget lines. When, in 1992, Parliament created the Phare Democracy Programme, to which later was added the Tacis Democracy Programme, an "Advisory Council" of representatives of the Commission, Parliament, Council of Europe and G24 (an intergovernmental grouping of developing/third countries) was created. 5. Following the introduction of the 1999 Regulations, which instituted a management committee of the Member States (comitology), the Commission abolished the Advisory Council. The EHRF was still contracted to provide technical assistance to the "Common Service"( subsequently transformed into Europe Aid) in the management of all the human rights budget lines within chapter B7-7 (approx. EUR 100m per year), from April 1999 until May 2001. At that point, management was "internalised" within Europe Aid, and the Commission ceased collaboration with EHRF. Today's programme 6. Democracy and Human Rights actions within the EU budget are still implemented in various ways. On the one hand, the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) has a separate budget chapter (19 04, ex B7-70) and is financed at a level of EUR 123 million in 2006. 7. On the other hand, various actions related to democracy and human rights are in fact carried out under the geographical cooperation programmes. These are not open to the same degree of visibility and insight to the Parliament, at least in budgetary terms. 8. In general, the EIDHR is a programme supporting civil society actions, not necessarily subject to official approval by third country authorities (although this may also be the case). The geographical programmes operate within a programmed framework agreed with the country in question, often financing institutions of that country in areas such as 'good governance', strengthening of justice systems, police systems etc. 9. The question of a lack of coordination between the two has often been raised, as has the question of insufficient coordination with