road transport (OJ L 370, 31.12.1985, p. 1). provides that certain drivers engaged in the carriage of goods or passengers by road must, depending on their age, on the category of vehicle used and on the distance to be travelled, hold a certificate of professional competence in conformity with Community rules on the minimum level of training for some road transport drivers. That minimum level is determined by Directive 76/914/EEC Council Directive 76/914/EEC of 16 December 1976 on the minimum level of training for some road transport drivers (OJ L 357, 29.12.1976, p. 36). . (2) Given that the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 apply to a very small percentage of drivers and that currently the compulsory training of drivers is only required by a few Member States, the majority of drivers now driving on Community territory are carrying out their profession solely on the basis of a driving licence. (3) To enable drivers to meet the new demands arising from the development of the road transport market, Community rules should be made applicable to all drivers, whether they drive as self-employed or salaried workers, and whether on own account or for hire or reward. (4) The establishment of new Community rules is aimed at ensuring that, by means of his qualification, the driver is of a standard to have access to and carry out the activity of driving. (5) More particularly, the obligation to hold an initial qualification and to undergo periodic training is intended to improve road safety and the safety of the driver, including during operations carried out by the driver while the vehicle is stopped. Furthermore, the modern nature of the profession of driver should arouse young people's interest in the profession, contributing to the recruitment of new drivers at a time of shortage. (6) To avoid unequal conditions of competition, this Directive should apply to the activity of driving both by the nationals of a Member State and by nationals of third countries who are employed or used by an undertaking established in a Member State. (7) In order to establish that the driver complies with his obligations, Member States should issue the driver with a certificate of professional competence, hereinafter referred to as "CPC", certifying his initial qualification or periodic training. (8) Given the differences between current systems in certain Member States, Member States should be able to choose between several options so as to facilitate the implementation of the provisions relating to the initial qualification. (9) In order to maintain their qualification of driver, existing drivers should be obliged to undergo periodic retraining in the skills essential for their profession. (10) The minimum requirements to be met for the initial qualification and the periodic training concern the safety rules to be observed when driving and while the vehicle is stopped. The development of defensive driving – anticipating danger, making allowance for other road users – which goes hand in hand with rational fuel consumption, will have a positive impact both on society and on the road transport sector itself. (11) This Directive should not