the measures SEC(2010)1291 final of 25.10.2010 — ‘Cohesion policy: Responding to the economic crisis’: A review of the implementation of cohesion policy measures adopted in support of the European Economic Recovery Plan. which is based on the documents provided by the Member States in their 2009 national strategic reports. As regards support provided to multinational and large companies, the Commission underlines that a primary objective of cohesion policy is growth and the creation of new jobs in particular regions and Member States. Any support for productive investment has to be seen in this context. Promoting job creation and economic growth can be achieved in many ways — from the setting up of small enterprises to supporting larger companies. Cohesion policy interventions support productive investment which is primarily targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises (as specified by the ERDF and ESF regulations). The Commission also stressed the role of small and medium-sized enterprises during the negotiation of current programming documents. However, there may be cases where co-financing is granted to larger companies provided this complies with the objectives of the funds and the programmes concerned. For example, the ESF can support actions in Member States aimed at designing and disseminating innovative and more productive forms of work organisation, including better health and safety at work. ESF support should also be available in large and small enterprises if it helps to improve the working conditions of workers. Multinationals are not the beneficiaries of the support by the ESF — the workers are the ones receiving the training co-financed. The ESF supports people by providing training, retraining and improving skills to prepare and help them finding a job. A worker engaged in a given enterprise may well find himself/herself engaged in another company. What matters is to sustain the inclusion of skilled workers in the labour market and not the name or type of enterprises providing the training. In general, the majority of productive investment and investment in the development of endogenous potential is targeted at SMEs. Cohesion policy has allocated some EUR 55 billion between 2007 and 2013 to business support, of which a large share supports innovation directly in SMEs. In a spirit of subsidiarity, it is up to the Member States to select projects which would contribute to reaching the programme's objectives. It is up to the managing authorities to carry out a fair and transparent selection of the most suited projects. The Commission ensures that the Member States respect the legislation in force. The Commission considers that from a policy perspective firms should not receive European funding for investments which would lead to the loss of employment by the same company in another region of the EU, as the net effect of the funds investment might be zero or even negative. Where cohesion policy support is provided for investment by a company, that subsequently closes the supported project within five years — or three years in the case of SMEs — of having received European funding, those funds have to be paid back. In a number of programmes provisions were introduced