Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (14 December 2005) Pipelines are an important means of transporting hydrocarbons both to and within the EU. While the majority of crude oil is shipped to European terminals by sea, it is estimated that roughly 15 % arrives by pipeline. In the context of the security of energy supplies, the Commission can confirm that it is familiar with the existing pipeline infrastructure in the EU, both for natural gas and for oil. It is generally accepted that pipelines represent a safe means of energy transportation in the European context. Technically, they provide a high level of reliability while offering sufficient protection for both the population and the environment. Records indicate, for example, that the non-recovered amount of oil that escapes into the environment is equal to around 0.1 parts per million of the total amount of products transported. This is, of course, conditional on regular maintenance and the appropriate technical surveillance by the pipeline operators. However, the technical conditions are the responsibility of the companies operating them. Both the Council and Parliament have expressed the view that pipelines should be included within the scope of Community legislation dealing with major-accidents hazards. A harmonisation at a Community level of the requirements relating to safety management systems, control of external interference, information to the public, emergency planning, systems of inspection and accident reporting are being examined by the Commission in this respect. Furthermore, the Galileo programme offers significant opportunities for enhancing the security and safety of energy networks and projects, in collaboration with neighbouring countries and partners, particularly for the construction and maintenance of pipelines. The Commission is currently preparing a communication that will further analyse the current situation in the pipeline sector and its future perspectives. This should also provide the background for an evaluation of the impact of possible new pipeline constructions in other parts of the European energy and transport sector, including oil transport by railway and road. On the basis of the communication and related working document(s), a discussion with the representatives of public and private stakeholders will be stimulated in 2006. Pipelines already account for some 95 % of the inland crude oil transported in the EU. While they only account for some 25 % of the inland oil products transported, compared with 40 % by road, a modal shift is often not economically feasible as pipelines will never match the efficiency of the road when it comes to the distribution of smaller volumes to geographically diverse locations all over the EU. The volumes transported by pipelines may well increase as demand for crude oil and/or refined oil products increases, but this in turn would likely lead to an increase in road transportation as the extra volumes are distributed to the final sales outlets.