in our 25 – soon to be 27 – Member States. But what we can do, and are already doing, is to encourage the Member States’ regulators and supervisors to work more and more closely together. As their cooperation becomes increasingly close and regular, as they carry out peer reviews, adopt protocols or memorandums of understanding for the coordinated application of specific directives and generally pursue a policy of supervisory convergence, we will find that problems of incorrect application of Community legislation will be picked up and solved at an earlier stage." 8. Quality of the implementation reports and review The issue of whether lessons should be sought by the Commission from this particular case was raised by Members. They also asked during H1 whether a review of the review of the implementation studies had been done. Under questioning, the Commission admitted it was " not satisfied with the conduct of the study in respect to certain countries " (H1). It will undertake to compile a full dossier from the historical archives, in order to inform the committee as to where and on what points and in relation to which countries they were not satisfied with the study (WE-Conf 11). Mr. BEVERLY claims that a review of the study was undertaken. He said that " at the time the study was carefully reviewed, because we certainly raised problems with the consultant at that time " (H1). However, this evidence seems to contradict what is said in WE 19, where the Commission states that " it is clear from the papers and from our contacts with a retired official that major problems were encountered in the course of the execution of the study. The final outcome was that an improved version of the interim report became the final report and the final budget was reduced by 50% ." The Commission concludes that " no written review of the study was carried out " but it claims that it can confirm that " the officials then responsible for the study, while not checking all the work of the consultants in all the individual Member States, nevertheless played an active role in monitoring the production of the study ". Also in WE 19, the Commission states that " it is clear that the UK coverage of the report is one of the sounder aspects of the study ". These assertions would seem to be corroborated in WE Conf-11. 9. No comitology provisions Under questioning, the Commission stated that the 3LD did not foresee any comitology procedure for implementation of technical details. The Directive was implemented straight as it came from the Parliament and the Council of Ministers and there was no comitology process for technical details. 10. Solvency II is a major overhaul The Commission believes (H1) that “w e should recall that the Insurance Directives contain mostly minimum rules, and that is the reason why Member States sometimes want to add on to those rules (…). We are preparing "Solvency II" which is a major overhaul of the solvencies requirements for insurance companies. We