take part and assist the officials of the Commission (Eurostat) during the methodological visits . Amendment 2 1 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 5 Regulation (EC) No 479/2009 Article 12 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 1 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The Commission (Eurostat) may make on-site inspections and be permitted to hold interviews with any organisation it deems relevant to its work. Amendment 2 2 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 5 Regulation (EC) No 479/2009 Article 12 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Member States shall take all necessary measures to facilitate the methodological visits. Those visits may be carried out in national authorities involved in the excessive deficit procedure reporting, as well as in all services directly or indirectly involved in the production of government accounts and debt. Member States shall ensure that those national authorities and services, and where necessary, their national authorities who have a functional responsibility for the control of the public accounts, provide the Commission officials or other experts referred to in paragraph 1 with the assistance necessary to carry out their duties, including making documents available to justify the reported actual deficit and debt data and the underlying government accounts. Confidential records of the national statistical system should only be provided to the Commission (Eurostat). Member States shall take all necessary measures to facilitate the methodological visits , which may also be unannounced . Those visits may be carried out in national authorities involved in the excessive deficit procedure reporting, as well as in all services directly or indirectly involved in the production of government accounts and debt. Member States shall ensure that those national authorities and services, and where necessary, their national authorities who have a functional responsibility for the control of the public accounts, provide the Commission officials or other experts referred to in paragraph 1 with the assistance necessary to carry out their duties, including making documents available to justify the reported actual deficit and debt data and the underlying government accounts. Confidential records of the national statistical system should only be provided to the Commission (Eurostat). Amendment 2 3 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Article 1 – point 5 a (new) Regulation (EC) No 479/2009 Article 16 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5a) In Article 16, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: " 1. Member States shall ensure that the actual data reported to the Commission (Eurostat) are provided in accordance with the principles established by Article s 2 and 12 of Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2009 on European statistics 1 . In this regard, the responsibility of the national statistical authorities is to ensure the compliance of reported data with Article 1 of this Regulation and the underlying ESA 95 accounting rules. Member States shall ensure that the national statistical authorities are provided with access to all relevant information necessary to