Question for written answer E-000556/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Sergio Paolo Frances Silvestris (PPE) (1 February 2012) Subject: Regulating the powerful credit rating agencies On 13 January 2012 the credit rating agency Standard and Poor's officially announced it had reduced Italy's sovereign credit rating by two levels, from ‘A’ to ‘BBB +’. The outlook is negative. According to Standard & Poor's, Italy has therefore descended to the eighth of ten ‘investment grade’ levels. Italy's downgrading comes against the background of a general review of the creditworthiness of eurozone countries, which has resulted in a two-level drop in the credit ratings of Spain, Portugal and Cyprus, too, all of which have a negative outlook. France, Austria, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia have also been downgraded, though only by one notch, and they too have a negative outlook. France and Austria, more specifically, have lost their ‘AAA’ rating and have gone down to ‘AA +’. The highest level of creditworthiness has been confirmed for Germany, which has a stable outlook. The three agencies that now have the monopoly on the approval or rejection of the world's financial systems are Moody's, Standard & Poor's and Fitch, which, with their definitive judgments, determine the destinies of states, mega-corporations, small companies and even individual securitised mortgages. Their judgments on the creditworthiness of just about everyone and everything — tantamount to passing or failing them — is having clear repercussions on the markets, as we have seen recently in relation to Greece, Spain and Italy, which are the victims of financial speculation. Can the Commission therefore answer the following questions: 1. Will it regulate the status of credit rating agencies, given that they are not yet governed by international rules? 2. How does it intend to counter the oligopoly of the three international agencies that, by themselves, deliver judgments on the financial stability of countries around the world? 3. Will it take measures to monitor those agencies which have previously committed clear errors of judgment resulting in economic losses for banks and small investors?