represented by the Commission, the Authority and the European Space Agency (hereafter referred to as ‘ESA’), granting the Commission responsibility for the Management role of the programmes. It also provided that the Authority (hereafter referred to as Agency in line with the Commission's proposal), when accomplishing such tasks entrusted to it, will ensure that the Commission’s role as manager of the programmes is respected and that the Authority will act in accordance with guidelines issued by the Commission. As a result, the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 must be brought into line with those of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council. In order to ensure that the Agency accomplishes its tasks whilst respecting the Commission’s role as manager of the programmes and in accordance with guidelines issued by the Commission, it is also important, firstly, to state explicitly that the Agency be managed by its Executive Director under the supervision of the Administrative Board, in accordance with the guidelines provided to the Agency by the Commission, and secondly, to provide that the Commission representative on the Agency’s Administrative Board has 30% of the board’s votes. Since the Administrative Board shall take its decisions by a two-thirds majority, this one-third voting rights will allow the Commission to block with the support of at least one Member State any decision by the Administrative Board contravening the Commission's guidelines. Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 highlighted the usefulness of close cooperation between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. In view of this importance it is also necessary to allow the European Parliament to be represented on the Agency’s Administrative Board, with two seats out of thirty. In order not to compromise the legislative and control functions of the European Parliament no Member of the European Parliament shall be a member of the Administrative Board. Security accreditation activities and decisions shall be undertaken in a context of collective responsibility for security of the Community and its Member States. Accreditation activities should be carried out independently of the authorities responsible for managing the programmes, notably the Commission, the Member States and ESA, and other entities responsible for implementing provisions with regard to security. As a result, the security accreditation board (the word committee is replaced by board to avoid confusion with Comitology arrangements) for European GNSS systems should be within the Agency, an autonomous body that adopts accreditation decisions independently. The members of the Security Accreditation Board should act independently and objectively in the public interest and should not seek or follow political instructions. The Security Accreditation Board should adopt decisions by a three-fourths majority of the representatives of the Member States. Each representative should have one vote as accreditation opinions should be technical and should not follow political instructions. If the Commission considers that the adoption of an accreditation decision may have a significant effect on the proper conduct of the programmes, for example in terms of costs and schedule, it shall notify it to the Security Accreditation Board. The Security Accreditation Board shall take utmost account of