Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (23 November 2007) The Commission was informed about the first finding of chestnut gall wasp (Dryocosmus kuriphilus) on Community territory in 2002, namely in the Piedmont region in Italy. Further investigation in 2005 revealed that the presence and harmfulness of this organism in Italy, Piedmont region, South of Cuneo province was very worrying. In 2006, Italy informed the Community about the finding of the wasp in the regions Abruzzo and Lazio. Recently, in October 2007, the Commission was informed about the presence of the wasp in Sardinia in Italy. Chestnut gall wasp is not listed as a harmful organism in the EU plant health Directive 2000/29/EC Council Directive 2000/29/EC of 8 May 2000 on protective measures against the introduction into the Community of organisms harmful to plants of plant products and against their spread within the Community, OJ L 169, 10.7.2000, as last amended by Commission Directive 2007/41/EC, OJ L 169, 29.6.2007. . In 2002, the Community was of the opinion that EU wide emergency measures were not necessary as it was a small and well defined outbreak. In 2005 however, after intensive consultation with experts and discussion at the Standing Committee on Plant Health in relation to the notifications of France and Slovenia, it was decided to take emergency measures to prevent the further introduction into and spread within the Community of this harmful organism. This resulted in Commission Decision 2006/464/EC Commission Decision 2006/464/EC of 27 June 2006 on provisional emergency measures to prevent the introduction into and the spread within the Community of Dryocosmus kuriphilus Yasumatsu, OJ L 183, 5.7.2006. . The emergency measures in this decision include specific requirements for the import of susceptible plants, i.e. Castanea plants, from third countries as well as for the movement of these plants within the Community, monitoring obligations for all Member States and the establishment of demarcated zones around outbreaks sites where measures for eradication need to be taken. The Community can co-finance control activities against harmful organisms with the aim of eradication or, if this is impossible, at least containment of the organism. In this framework, the application for co-financing to the Commission has to be made at the latest before the end of the calendar year following that in which the appearance of the harmful organism has been detected. In the case of the chestnut gall wasp in the province of Viterbo in the Lazio region, the application has to be introduced before the end of 2007. The chestnut gall wasp is known to be present in China, Korea, Japan, the United States and, recently, in some limited areas within the Community. When such infestation is first detected, it is of major importance to take action immediately with the aim of trying to eradicate the new harmful organism, while the spread is still limited. The Community stimulates such an approach by providing co-financing possibilities for control campaigns in the initial phase and, where appropriate, laying down Community emergency measures.