Answer given by Mr Fischler on behalf of the Commission (1 August 2003) In the reply to the Honourable Member's Written Question E-2153/03 , the Commission has already outlined the general and basic principle of the Common Fisheries Policy that Community fishing vessels have equal access to waters beyond 12 nautical miles off the baselines and why the transitional arrangements for Portuguese continental waters in International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) area IX cannot be upheld. The Common Fisheries Policy adopted by the Community based on Article 37 of the EC Treaty aims at sustainable management of fisheries resources. According to the Common Fisheries Policy all waters under the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the Member States are regarded as Community waters, except for waters around the overseas countries and territories listed in Annex II to the EC Treaty. Given that Portugal is a Member State of the Community, Portuguese waters are therefore also Community waters, in exactly the same way as is the case for Danish, Spanish or Dutch waters. In Community waters, conservation and other measures regarding fisheries are taken in accordance with Community procedures, based — as in all Community policies — on the principle of non-discrimination. The Commission can assure the Honourable Member that it is concerned to ensure the conservation of fisheries resources in Portuguese waters, as much as in any other area of the Community. If there are conservation problems in Portuguese waters, they should indeed be regulated through conservation measures adopted at Community level. The Common Fisheries Policy provides us with the adequate instruments to do so. The Commission is always prepared to examine claims of this kind and to take any necessary action. However the Commission does not believe that conservation purposes may be achieved simply by denying fishing access to vessels from other Member States. Finally the removal of the previous division of ICES area IX, where the main bulk of the Portuguese continental waters is situated, does not mean that new quotas will be opened for other Member States in this area. It simply means that Member States which already have quotas in area IX will be able to take them anywhere in this area, except for the waters within 12 nautical miles from the coasts which continue to be reserved for local fisheries.