safety aspects. Justification Ethical principles and safety aspects are substantially complementary in this context. Amendment 8 Article 6, paragraph 2, subparagraph 2 The Commission shall communicate the conclusions thereof, accompanied by its observations, to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. The Commission shall communicate the conclusions thereof, accompanied by its observations, to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee , the Committee of the Regions and the European Ombudsman. Justification As the guarantor of the proper functioning of the Community institutions and the application of its policies, the Ombudsman seems the appropriate figure to ensure the correct application of Article 5 of the framework programme concerning compliance with fundamental ethical principles as regards all research activities carried out under the programme. Amendment 9 Annex I, subtitle"Fusion Energy Research" , subtitle "Objective" Developing the knowledge base for, and realising ITER as the major step towards, the creation of prototype reactors for power stations which are safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible, and economically viable. Developing the knowledge base for, and realising ITER as a major step towards, the creation of prototype reactors for power stations which are safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible, and economically viable. Justification The original text is ambiguous and might lead to believe that after ITER there will soon be electricity from fusion in the power grid. The decisive and final step before a commercial fusion power station is the construction of a "demonstration" fusion power station that comes after ITER. Amendment 10 Annex I, subtitle 'Fusion Energy Research', subtitle 'Rationale', paragraph 2 Fusion has the potential to make a major contribution to the realisation of a sustainable and secure supply for the EU in a few decades from now. Its successful development would provide energy which is safe, sustainable and environmentally friendly. The long-term goal of European fusion research, embracing all the fusion activities in the Member States and associated third countries, is the joint creation of prototype reactors for power stations which meet these requirements, and are economically viable. Notwithstanding the efforts which the EU is making and should continue to make in the field of research into renewable energies, fusion has the potential to make a major contribution to the realisation of a sustainable and secure energy supply for the EU approximately fifty or sixty years from now, after the market penetration of commercial fusion reactors . A “fast track” to fusion energy will therefore be pursued in order to reduce as much as possible the time taken to develop an actual fusion power plant. Its successful development would provide energy which is safe, sustainable and environmentally friendly. The long-term goal of European fusion research, embracing all the fusion activities in the Member States and associated third countries, is the joint creation, in approximately thirty to thirty-five years , of prototype reactors for power stations which meet these requirements, and are economically viable. Justification This amendment stresses the forceful efforts the EU is making in the field of research into renewable energy sources, which can