be the case. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT The Commission has tabled a proposal for a Council Directive to amend Directive 93/109/EC of 6 December 1993 which lays down certain detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament for EU citizens residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. The proposal is drawn up after an assessment of the practical experience of previous elections, and particularly those of 2004 about which a detailed study was commissioned. This monitoring exercise is summarised in a Communication from the Commission COM(2006) 790 final of 12 December 2006, with three supporting documents SEC(2006) 1645, 1646, 1647. Under the terms of Article 19.2 TEC the Parliament is merely consulted on this proposal and the Council has to act unanimously. Background The 1976 Act establishing direct elections to the European Parliament provides in Article 8 that where it is silent, ‘the electoral procedure shall be governed in each Member State by its national provisions’. Article 9 says that: ‘No one may vote more than once in any election of members of the European Parliament’. No similar provision is made with regard to candidature. The Treaty of Maastricht established a citizenship of the Union with certain electoral rights. Article 19(2) TEC, as amended by Maastricht, says: ‘Without prejudice to Article 190(4) [ the uniform electoral procedure ] and to the provisions adopted for its implementation, every citizen of the Union residing in a Member State of which he is not a national shall have the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament in the Member State in which he resides, under the same conditions as nationals of that State . This right shall be exercised subject to detailed arrangements adopted by the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament; these arrangements may provide for derogations where warranted by problems specific to a Member State.’ (the author's emphasis) It should be noted that the Treaty provides electoral rights for non-nationals resident in another member state while it does not deprive the citizen of those same rights in their own member state. In other words, the Treaty confers new genuine citizen's rights on the citizens of the Union rather than substituting for existing ones. Citizens' electoral rights have since been consolidated in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and in the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe Article 39 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article II-99 of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe. . Parliament has always championed an extension of these rights As evidenced in the Opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs (Amendment 3), adopted as an amendment to Recital 1. . The 1993 Directive Consequent on Maastricht, the 1993 legislation sought to lay down detailed arrangements in order to ‘abolish the nationality requirement which currently has to be satisfied in most Member States in order to exercise those rights’