15 December 2003 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION tabled for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure by Bob van den Bos, Anne André-Leonard and Ole Andreasen on behalf of the ELDR Group on Moldova European parliament resolution on Moldova The European parliament, - Having regard to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed on 28 November 1994 between Moldova and the EU and entered into force on 1 July 1998; - Having regard to the Memorandum of May 1997 signed between Moldova and Transdniestria; - Having regard to the resolution n°1280 of the Council of Europe of 24 April 2002; - Having regard to the conclusions of the European Council of 16 and 17 October 2003; - Having regard to the statement of the chairman-in-office of the OSCE at the closing plenary of the 11th meeting of the OSCE ministerial council in 2003; A. whereas the economy of Moldova has not developed well, leaving the country as the one of the poorest in Europe; B. aware of the difficulties the people of Moldova have been facing since the independence and during the process of economic and social reforms; C. whereas Transdniestria has declared independence in 1992, after an armed conflict involving Russian troops, thereby destabilising the whole Moldovan republic; D. whereas there is a serious amount of criminal activities, a deeply rooted non official economy and no respect for fundamental rights and human rights, especially in Transdniestria, E. whereas the Moldovan government has offered to work together with Transdniestria in a joint constitutional commission, involving the Council of Europe and the EU as observers, in order to draw up a new constitution for a reunited Moldova before February 2004; F. whereas the meeting between the Ukraine, Russian and the OSCE on 24 and 25 September 2003 in Zagreb did not succeed in giving a new impulse to the constitutional process; a process that should not be linked to the withdrawal of Russian arms and troops from Transdniestria; G. whereas Russia decided to put forward a second peace plan themselves on 17 November 2003, proposing a demilitarised federation in which Transdniestria would have a special status; a plan that was in the end rejected by Moldovan government; H. whereas the withdrawal of Russian arms and troops, foreseen in the commitments undertaken at the OSCE Istanbul Summit in 1999, has been delayed again, thereby giving the Transdniestria authorities the possibility to maintain the status quo; I. whereas most of the ministers taking part in the 11th OSCE ministerial council would like to provide an OSCE mandate for a multinational peace consolidation mission and unarmed observers; 1. Calls on the Moldovan government to respect democratic principles, fundamental rights and human rights including minority language rights and continue with the process of economic and social reforms; 2. Considers that the Moldovan government has not been able to stabilise the economy and establish more democracy, while noting that the Transdniestrian conflict has contributed for a large part to the instability of