entrusted to it, will ensure that the Commission’s role as manager of the programmes is respected and that the Authority will act in accordance with guidelines issued by the Commission. (3a) In Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 the European Parliament and the Council invited the Commission to put forward a proposal to align formally the management structures of the EGNOS and Galileo programmes as set out in Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 with the new roles of the Commission and the Authority as set out in Regulation (EC) No 683/2008. ▌ (5) ▌ In view of its reduced sphere of activity, the Authority should no longer be called the "European GNSS Supervisory Authority", but rather the " European GNSS Agency" (hereinafter "Agency"). However, the continuity of the activities of the Authority, including continuity as regards rights and obligations, staff and the validity of any decisions taken, should be ensured under the Agency. (6) The aims and objectives of Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 should also be adjusted in order to reflect the fact that the Agency is no longer responsible for the management of public interests relating to Global Navigation Satellite Systems ( GNSS ) European programmes and for regulating such programmes. (6a) The legal status of the Agency should be such as to enable it to act as a legal person in the discharge of its tasks. (7) It is also important to modify the tasks of the Agency, and, in this regard, to ensure that its tasks are defined in conformity with those set out in Article 16 of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 , including the possibility for the Agency to accomplish other activities that may be entrusted to it by the Commission, in order to support the Commission in the implementation of the GNSS programmes. In accordance with Article 54(2)(b) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. , such activities could for example include: - following the development of coordination and consultation procedures on security-related matters; - carrying out research of benefit to the development and promotion of the European GNSS programmes; - providing support in the development and implementation of the Public Regulated Service (PRS) pilot project. . (7a) Within its scope, its objectives and in the performance of its tasks, the Agency should comply in particular with the provisions applicable to Union institutions. (7b) The Commission should, in the context of its mid-term review of the Galileo programme foreseen for 2010 as referred to in Article 22 of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008, also address the issue of the governance of the programme in the operating and exploitation phase and the role of the Agency in this context. (8) In order to reflect the ▌title of this Regulation ▌and the new name of the Agency , all provisions of Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 citing the previous name of the Agency should be amended . ▌ (9a) In order to ensure effectively the accomplishment of the tasks of the