Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (9 June 2008) The Commission fully comprehends the statement expressed by Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the head of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and considers that the sharp increase in oil and food prices is a major threat to the financial, economic and social stability of many developing countries around the world, in particular net oil and food importing countries and those having depreciated their currency since early 2007. However, this situation could also be an opportunity for exploiting unrealised production potential in many developing countries, including rural communities. The EC does not view this crisis purely from a humanitarian perspective, but rather as a global economic and structural challenge requiring a mix of short and medium-long term measures. The prevailing situation of high agricultural and food prices calls for responses along two lines: — in the short/medium term, a direct social intervention on behalf of poor (urban as well as rural) consumers; — in the medium/long term, productivity enhancing measures in developing countries to help meet the rising demand for food. This includes investments in rural infrastructure, market institutions and agricultural science and technology to overcome structural problems in developing countries' agricultural sectors. The medium-long term response will be implemented through, among other things, the Thematic Food Security Programme (funded by the EC Budget) and the European Development Fund. In terms of the humanitarian response, the Commission has responded on a rolling basis as this crisis has developed. In the face of increasing needs, it committed EUR 160 million in February 2008 and EUR 63 million in April 2008 from the existing food aid budget run by the Directorate-General for Humanitarian Aid to which should be added a requested EUR 60 million as additional money. To these amounts should be added EUR 50 million from the Food Security Thematic Programme run by the Directorate-General EuropeAid. The total EC short term response so far in 2008 should then reach EUR 333 million. While this situation is currently a source of macroeconomic instability affecting budgets, trade balances, incomes, and will have some negative effects on poverty reduction and food security in several countries, it also provides an opportunity for the agricultural sector and rural development that has in the recent past been neglected. A supply response from the agricultural sectors in developing countries will take time but is needed as a key response to the soaring food price situation and to meet projected food demand increases.