in that Member State or on a widely grown crop to meet an exceptional need. 2. The authorisation holder, official or scientific bodies involved in agricultural activities or professional agricultural organisations and professional users may ask for the authorisation of a plant protection product already authorised in the Member State concerned to be extended to minor uses not yet covered by that authorisation. 3. Member States may, after authorisation by the Commission, adopt specific measures to facilitate the submission of applications to extend the authorisation for and the submission of applications relating to minor uses. 4. Member States shall extend the authorisation provided that: a) the intended use is minor in nature; b) the conditions referred to in Article 4(3)(b), (d) and (e) and Article 30(1)(j) are satisfied; c) the extension is in the public interest; d) the documentation and information to support an extension of use has been submitted by the persons or bodies referred to in paragraph 2. The studies necessary in order to determine maximum residue levels may be carried out by scientific institutes or official bodies. 5. The extension may take the form of an amendment to the existing authorisation or may be a separate authorisation, according to the administrative procedures of the Member State concerned. Extensions on the basis of this Article shall be separately identified and separate reference shall be made to liability restrictions. 6. When Member States grant an extension of authorisation for a minor use, they shall inform the authorisation holder, who shall change the labelling accordingly. Where the authorisation holder declines, the Member States shall ensure that users are fully and specifically informed as to instructions for use, by means of an official publication or an official website. The label shall indicate that such uses have not been evaluated for efficacy or phytotoxicity. Without prejudice to Article 76, the authorisation holder shall not be liable for any losses arising from use in accordance with extensions of authorisation. 7. Member States shall establish and regularly update a list of minor uses. This list shall be made available to the public through official websites of the Member State and of the Commission . 8. Not later than ... * One year after the entry into force of this Regulation. , the Commission shall present a proposal to the European Parliament and the Council for establishing a European promotion fund for minor uses. The Fund shall also be entitled to finance additional residue tests for minor uses. 9. Unless otherwise specified, all provisions relating to authorisations under this Regulation shall apply. Article 55 Parallel trade 1. A plant protection product that is authorised in one Member State (Member State of origin) may, subject to an application for a parallel trade permit, be introduced, placed on the market and used in another Member State (Member State of introduction), if that Member State determines that the plant protection product is identical in composition to a plant protection product already authorised in the Member State of introduction (reference product). The application shall be submitted to the regulatory authority in