that such substances, as far as their risks are deemed acceptable by all relevant stakeholders , may also be approved for plant protection use. (22) Some active substances of particular concern, which are currently approved, should be identified at Community and national level as candidates for substitution . Member States should examine plant protection products containing such active substances with the aim of replacing them by plant protection products containing active substances which require significantly less or no risk mitigation or by alternative non-chemical agricultural practices and methods of crop protection . After a positive check, active substances should be replaced immediately. (23) Member States should be entitled to prohibit or not authorise plant protection products in order to take account of their specific natural, agricultural or climatic conditions, or if the use of these products would be in conflict with their national action plan to reduce the risks associated with, and dependence on, the use of pesticides, adopted in accordance with Directive 2008/.../EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of ... [establishing a framework for Community action to achieve a sustainable use of pesticides] OJ L ... . + OJ: Please insert number and date. (24) In addition to active substances, plant protection products may contain safeners or synergists for which similar legislation should be provided. The provisions necessary for the review of such substances should be established on the basis of a legislative proposal from the Commission . Substances currently on the market should only be reviewed after those provisions have been established. (25) Plant protection products may also contain co-formulants. It is appropriate to adopt and make publicly available a positive list of co-formulants which may be included in plant protection products and the reasons therefor. This information should be available to the public. Details of all co-formulants that are included in plant protection products must also be available to the public . (26) Plant protection products containing active substances can be formulated in many ways and used on a variety of crops, under different agricultural, ecological and climatic conditions. Authorisations for plant protection products should therefore be granted by Member States. (27) The provisions governing authorisation must ensure a high standard of protection. In particular, when granting authorisations of plant protection products, the objective of protecting human or animal health and the environment should take priority over the objective of improving plant production. Therefore, it should be demonstrated, before plant protection products are placed on the market, that they ▐do not have any harmful effect on human health, including that of vulnerable groups, or animal health or any unacceptable influence on the environment and on water resources . Member States should be entitled to prohibit or not authorise plant protection products that do not present a clear benefit for plant production in the specific conditions of their territory. (28) In the interest of predictability, efficiency and consistency, criteria, procedures and conditions for the authorisation of plant protection products should be harmonised, account being taken of the general principles of protection of human and animal health and