this up with the regulators meeting in the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee. The supervisors meeting in the Committee of European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Supervisors have announced that they are going to review the rules and procedures to be followed by supervisors in cross-border activity and plan to focus on consumer protection issues, such as the treatment of cross-border complaints ." b.) Complaints to the FOS Evidence suggests that some Irish and German policyholders have lodged complaints with the UK Financial Ombudsman Service. In WE-CONF 7 Page 2. the UK regulator states that " we understand from the Financial Ombudsman Service ... that it has received complaints from 74 Irish policyholders and 6 German policyholders ". The FOS itself initially did not indicate in the evidence he submitted to the committee, how many complaints he received from non-UK policyholders. He only provided a statistical table with information on the handling of ELAS related complaints, indicating that 1 'German' and 2 'Irish' complaints were 'rejected' (WE 56). The committee has therefore requested details from the FOS on the exact number of complaints he has received from German and Irish policyholders, information on whether these concerned policies taken out in the UK or from Equitable Life's German and Irish branches and his adjudications on them. In its reply See WE 90. , the FOS failed to respond to these questions. It only indicated that " there is one Irish complaint where the FOS has made a provisional decision. ... That part of the complaint may be [emphasis added] within FOS jurisdiction. No German complaint has been made to FOS where we consider that even part of the complaint maybe within FOS jurisdiction. " As regards the territorial jurisdiction of the FOS in general, the committee has obtained the following information from policyholders. Mr WEYER (H3) said that the FOS told German policyholders that they would not have access to its services: " We ... received informal information from the Financial Ombudsman Service which made it clear in respect of German affected parties that, according to its understanding of the legal position, German policyholders had no claims, in particular if they concluded their contract on the sovereign territory of the Federal Republic of Germany ." Similarly, the responses by Irish policyholders to the committee's questionnaire indicate that the FOS generally considered complaints by Irish policyholders to fall outside its jurisdiction. On the other hand, Irish policyholder Ms KNOWD said in H2 that after her complaint to the Irish Insurance Ombudsman was rejected, she lodged a complaint with the FOS in May 2003. The FOS first rejected the complaint. Ms KNOWD stated that she then had to go through an " epic 18-month struggle " allegedly facing obstructions and delaying tactics by ELAS until it was clear in November 2004 that she finally was " entitled to avail to the FOS services " (Ms KNOWD, H2). In WE-CONF 28, Ms KNOWD quotes from a letter of November 2004 by " Mr Roberts, Ombudsman " in which the FOS apparently confirmed that it had jurisdiction