Answer given by Mr Barroso on behalf of the Commission (4 February 2010) As pointed out by the Honourable Member, investing in research and sustainable development is key to ensuring Europe's long-term competitiveness and prosperity. Since 2005, this has been a clear priority of the Member States and of the European Union under the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs. Considerable progress has been made, even though in some important areas, key targets such as an increase in R & D spending to 3 % of gross domestic product (GDP) have not been achieved. When hit by the crisis, the EU adopted, in December 2008, a European Economic Recovery Plan (EERP), which provided for a substantive coordinated fiscal stimulus to support demand and boost confidence. The EERP ensured that these short-term crisis-related measures should be fully aligned with longer-term reform goals, particularly to foster the EU's transition towards an inclusive low-carbon, knowledge-based economy. Several measures were taken at EU level in this context. Member States' own recovery plans also played their part. The size of the stimulus packages differed across Member States, reflecting variations in fiscal space and external positions. Greening was taken up in most national recovery plans, although to a very different extent. Some measures to promote energy efficiency have been particularly successful. The Honourable Member is right however in pointing out that some of our trading partners are using their recovery packages to invest massively in green growth — in proportions which are sometimes substantively higher than in the EU. The European Union and its Member States therefore need to step up their efforts. This is the reason why the European Commission is committed to presenting shortly after the beginning of its new mandate, in line with the political guidelines that I presented to the Parliament in September 2009, a successor strategy to the Lisbon Strategy that will put the greening of the economy in its centre. The new ‘Europe 2020’ strategy should become our common road map towards that goal.