Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (23 April 2010) The preservation and enhancement of cultural heritage with the view to promoting cultural diversity and multiculturalism has been a long-standing priority for the Commission, both within the EU and beyond our borders. The European Agenda for Culture, the policy framework for culture launched in 2007, pursues three common sets of objectives: promoting cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue, promoting culture as a catalyst for creativity, growth and jobs (including the further development of cultural and creative industries), and promoting culture as a key component in international relations, with a clear and vital role for cultural heritage in all these three dimensions. The current Culture Programme (2007‑13), which is open also to Candidate and potential Candidate Countries of the European Union (Croatia, Turkey, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia) backs cooperation projects in many artistic fields, including the cultural heritage field, for example projects aiming at making the most of sites of cultural significance. As part of the Culture Programme, the EU Cultural Heritage Prize/Europa Nostra Awards, jointly launched in 2002 by the European Commission and Europa Nostra, are granted to exemplary heritage restoration and rehabilitation projects and include prizes for research projects related to cultural heritage. The European Heritage Days, launched in 1991, have been organised since 1999 as a joint activity between the European Commission and the Council of Europe in order to raise awareness of cultural heritage. Once a year, citizens in 49 countries celebrate Europe’s cultural heritage, including in Turkey and the western Balkans. In EU external relations, cultural heritage is an important priority and has been supported through programmes in several regions. One example is the Euromed Heritage Programme addressing Mediterranean non-EU countries, which facilitates the appropriation by people of their own national and regional cultural legacy through easier access to education and knowledge. In the framework of the Union for the Mediterranean, a needs assessment is being prepared including heritage issues in the relevant Western Balkan countries and Turkey. Specifically in South East Europe, the European Commission and the Council of Europe have since 2003 been conducting a joint action on the rehabilitation of cultural heritage, the Integrated Rehabilitation Project Plan/Survey of the Architectural and Archaeological Heritage (IRPP/SAAH). Participants in this regional cooperation project are Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Kosovo Under UNSCR 1244/99. and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. In this context, the Ljubljana Process — Funding heritage rehabilitation in South-East Europe, was launched in 2008 and focuses on a common methodology to establish a priority intervention list. The project's main objective is to ensure the acquisition by the participating experts (from the respective Ministries of Culture) of the tools to manage the rehabilitation of cultural sites taking full advantage of their economic and social potential. Participants have proposed 186 emblematic sites to be considered under the programme of which 26 have been pre-selected as ‘Consolidated Projects’ for immediate action. The Commission has funded several of these 26 consolidated projects, paving the way for other public