after EL opened its German branch in Cologne in December 1992 and began selling policies by authorized agents. On 20 March 1995, the Bundesaufsichtsamt für das Versicherungswesen The current German single financial regulator, BaFin, was created in May 2002. (BAV) with reference to Article 5.32 of the Siena Protocol, wrote to the DTI recommending the use of new mortality tables drawn up by the German Actuaries Association for the calculation of premiums and cover reserves. Stating that it " could not assess to what extent the provisions on the interest rate of reserves applicable in the UK have been observed, it ... is possible the undertaking has not complied with the provisions of art.19 in conjunction with art.18 (1c) of TLD". The BAV also uttered concern that the Equitable Life Deutschland marketing manager was quoted In the newspaper 'Die Welt' of 27 February 1995: see annex 2 of WE-CONF9. as making no distinction between men and women in the application of annuities "which would have been contrary to actuarial principles applying in Germany". A reply from DTI, if issued, has not been presented to this committee. A second exchange, this time between BAV and FSA, happened in the aftermath of the House of Lords ruling on 31 July 2000 - following media reports and enquiries from worried German policyholders - the BAV asked to be informed on the financial stability of EL, any actions taken by the FSA in relation to the company and the ruling's consequences for German policyholders. The FSA reply came promptly on 7 August 2000 " subject to the disclosure restrictions in accordance with the provisions in the EC Insurance Directive ". Thus BAV was informed that the FSA was "satisfied that EL remains able to cover the required margin of solvency, however the level of cover is below what both the FSA and the company would want to see on a long-term basis." The letter further added in very optimistic terms that " the company is putting itself up for sale and ... there are not expected to be any shortage of companies interested in acquiring Equitable Life, because of its strong reputation in the UK industry for efficiency ... We are monitoring the solvency position closely, but are content that the plans for the sale of the company can be expected to resolve the longer term concerns about the financial position. The management of the company appear to be handling the situation effectively and we are satisfied that in doing so they are seeking to act in the best interests of policyholders." This just four months before EL's closure for new business and resignation of the EL board! Finally, the FSA confirmed that " policyholders of the (German) branch will be in the same position as UK policyholders", adding that "on completion of the sale of EL, the company expects to be in a position to restore the cut in the value of with-profits policies that will result from its revised bonus policy." It concluded hoping the information will enable BAV " to allay some of