WRITTEN QUESTION P-1363/09 by Lasse Lehtinen (PSE) to the Commission (26 February 2009) Subject: Regulation on motor vehicle distribution and servicing and the block exemption The European Commission is currently carrying out the impact assessment on the operation of Regulation (EC) No 1400/2002 OJ L 203, 1.8.2002, p. 30. concerning Motor Vehicle Distribution and Servicing (MVBER). The Commission has often pointed out that it wants ‘consumers to have access to the best that the market has to offer, in terms of price, choice, quality and availability.’ Concerning cars, the MVBER guarantees among other things: a new distribution format like multibranding, coexistence of different aftermarket patterns, access to technical information to all operators, spare-parts purchase clause, independence of stakeholders, maintenance of the status of authorised repairers, preserving intra-brand competition and providing dealers with the freedom to decide on their own business. The Commission’s evaluation report mentions that the degree of competition has improved. But in the report the Commission implicitly suggests either removing substantial parts of the actual MVBER or scrapping it altogether, leaving in its place a patchwork of legislation, some new, some existing and some still in draft form, to regulate markets and competition. In the absence of a specific regulation, it is obvious that the needs covered by the current regulation will have to be provided for by other legal texts. Is this the principle of ‘better regulation’? Does the Commission agree that only a specific regulation enables European consumers easily to buy and maintain motor vehicles at the best price with professionals that are in a position to combine choice, quality of products, and quality of services? I understand that the Commission seems to have in mind not to renew the MVBER and to add specific concerns to the General Vertical Restraints Block Exemption. Does it recognise that a general piece of legislation with guidelines is less legally binding than a specific motor vehicles block exemption? No consumer complaint has been received during the application of the MVBER and the automotive consumers’ association FIA, which represents consumers in the CARS 21, has called for an extension of the current legislation, underlining that without any doubt the MVBER has guaranteed consumers both freedom of choice and affordable mobility. If we would like independence of operators in order to maintain competition, specific rules have to be guaranteed by the legislator to give freedom of choice (multibranding, independent operators, spare parts, etc. Does the Commission support this option? I am especially keen to hear the opinion of Commissioner Kuneva, as this is above all a consumer matter.