in order to resolve congestion in electricity flow through the Benelux States. Including the following projects of European interest: Avelin (FR) – Avelgem (BE) line Moulaine (FR) – Aubange (BE) line EL.2. Borders of Italy with France, Austria, Slovenia and Switzerland: increasing electricity interconnection capacities. Including the following projects of European interest: Lienz (AT) – Cordignano (IT) line New interconnection between Italy and Slovenia Udine Ovest (IT) – Okroglo (SI) line Fiorano (IT) – Nave (IT) – Gorlago (IT) line Venezia Nord (IT) – Cordignano (IT) line St. Peter (AT) – Tauern (AT) line Südburgenland (AT) – Kainachtal (AT) line Austria – Italy (Thaur-Brixen) interconnection through the Brenner rail tunnel EL.3. France – Spain – Portugal: increasing electricity interconnection capacities between these countries and for the Iberian peninsula and grid development in island regions. Including the following projects of European interest: Sentmenat (ES) – Becanό (ES) – Baixas (FR) line Valdigem (PT) – Douro Internacional (PT) – Aldeadávila (ES) line and "Douro Internacional" facilities EL.4. Greece – Balkan countries – UCTE System: development of electricity infrastructure to connect Greece to the UCTE System and to enable the development of the South-Eastern Europe electricity market. Including the following projects of European interest: Philippi (EL) – Hamidabad (TR) line EL.5. United Kingdom – Continental Europe and Northern Europe: establishing/increasing electricity interconnection capacities and possible integration of offshore wind energy Including the following projects of European interest: Undersea cable to link England (UK) and the Netherlands EL.6. Ireland – United Kingdom: increasing electricity interconnection capacities and possible integration of offshore wind energy. Including the following projects of European interest: Undersea cable to link Ireland and Wales (UK) EL.7. Denmark – Germany – Baltic Ring (including Norway – Sweden – Finland – Denmark – Germany – Poland – Baltic States – Russia): increasing electricity interconnection capacities and possible integration of offshore wind energy. Including the following projects of European interest: Kassø (DK) – Hamburg/Dollern (DE) line Hamburg/Krümmel (DE) – Schwerin (DE) line Kassø (DK) – Revsing (DK) – Tjele (DK) line Vester Hassing (DK) – Trige (DK) line Submarine cable Skagerrak 4: between Denmark and Norway Poland – Lithuania link, including necessary reinforcement of the Polish electricity network and the PL-DE profile in order to enable participation in the internal energy market Submarine cable Finland – Estonia (Estlink) Submarine cable Fennoscan' between Finland and Sweden Halle/Saale (DE) – Schweinfurt (DE) EL.8. Germany – Poland – Czech Republic – Slovakia – Austria – Hungary – Slovenia: increasing electricity interconnection capacities. Including the following projects of European interest: Neuenhagen (DE) – Vierraden (DE) – Krajnik (PL) line Dürnrohr (AT) – Slavĕtice (CZ) line New interconnection between Germany and Poland Veľké Kapušany (SK) – Lemešany (SK) – Moldava (SK) – Sajóivánka (HU), Gabčíkovo (SK) – Vel'ký Ďur (SK) Stupava (SK) – south-east Vienna (AT) EL.9. Mediterranean Member States – Mediterranean Electricity Ring increasing electricity interconnection capacities between Mediterranean Member States and Morocco – Algeria – Tunisia – Libya – Egypt – Near-East countries – Turkey Including the following projects of European interest: Electricity connection to link Tunisia and Italy