principally the International Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. In the case of material within the meaning of Article 197 of the Treaty, adequate safeguards must be applied . Amendment 9 Article 5, title Research and technological development in radioactive waste management Research and technological development in radioactive waste management and minimisation Amendment 10 Article 5, paragraph 2 2. Based on the regular reports by Member States required under Article 7 of this Directive, the Commission shall identify common areas of research and technological development that could be co-ordinated at the Community level, taking fully into account the activities under the research and training programmes adopted pursuant to Article 7 of the Treaty. 2. Based on the regular reports by Member States required under Article 7 of this Directive, the Commission shall identify common areas of research and technological development that could be co-ordinated at the Community level, with priority being given to the reduction of waste. It shall take fully into account the activities under the research and training programmes adopted pursuant to Article 7 of the Treaty. Amendment 11 Article 5, paragraph 3 3. The Commission shall encourage co-operation between the Member States in common areas of research and technological development in line with the provisions of Chapter 1 of Title II of the Treaty. To this end specific tasks may be entrusted to one or more Joint Undertakings to be established under Chapter 5 of Title II of the Treaty. 3. The Commission shall encourage co-operation between the Member States in common areas of research and technological development in line with the provisions of Chapter 1 of Title II of the Treaty , mainly through the instruments of the Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development . When appropriate, specific and clearly defined tasks may be entrusted to one or more Joint Undertakings to be established under Chapter 5 of Title II of the Treaty. Amendment 28 Article 5a (new) Article 5a Financial resources 1. Member States shall ensure that financial resources sufficient to cover the decommissioning and waste management costs of each nuclear installation, taking into account the length of time required, are available as funds at the time envisaged. These funds must meet the minimum criteria set out in the Annex, and of any relevant directive under the EC Treaty. Furthermore, by ...* the Commission shall propose legislation, under the EC Treaty, to ensure the availability of funds for future decommissioning and to avoid obstacles to fair competition in the energy market. Member States must adopt separate accounting for the financing of future decommissioning or waste management activities. These funds must be reviewed and audited annually by an independent body, such as the regulator or regulatory bodies, to verify that the revenues and the associated interest raised for these future activities shall only be used for these purposes, i.e. for decommissioning or waste management activities, and not used directly or indirectly to fund activities in the market. 2. In the case of nuclear installations whose main