whereas, alongside conventional training systems, lifelong learning is making an important contribution to the requirements of the knowledge society, G. whereas the Stockholm European Council invited the Council and Commission to present a report to the Barcelona European Council in spring 2002 'containing a detailed work programme on the follow-up of the objectives of education and training systems', H. whereas it has resolved that Community documents of this kind should include: clearly-defined and realistic objectives; a demonstration of the 'European added-value' of the action(s) being proposed; an estimate, by means of activity-based budgeting, of the budgetary implications of such action(s); an opportunity-cost analysis; performance indicators to measure progress towards attainment of objectives; a procedure for assessing pilot projects and for modifying proposed measures in the light of the results of such assessments, I. whereas the 1995 Commission White Paper 'Teaching and learning - Towards the learning society' set as a goal the attainment by every school-leaver of proficiency in two European languages other than his mother-tongue, and whereas this goal was reaffirmed by the Education Council of 29 November 2001, J. whereas a Eurobarometer survey conducted in December 2000 revealed that 53% of Europeans said that they could speak at least one, and 26% said that they could speak two, European language(s) in addition to their mother tongue, 1. Regrets that it was unable to comment on the original Commission report on 'The concrete future objective of education systems'; and that it has, therefore, in effect been invited to comment on detailed proposals for the implementation of a more general plan the content of which it was unable to influence; 2. Believes that the open coordination method must be applied to the field of education and calls therefore on the Commission and the Council to negotiate an interinstitutional agreement with Parliament with a view to the latter's full involvement in the open coordination method such as will confer greater democratic legitimacy on this procedure; 3. Welcomes the realism of the Commission about the role that it can play in reaching the goals set out at the Lisbon and Stockholm European Councils; 4. Welcomes the Commission initiative to focus on open learning environments with particular reference to lifelong learning so ensuring that learning (continuing to learn) is also accessible for the elderly part of the population; 5. Welcomes the Commission's determination to avoid duplication of the work of other international organisations active in this field (such as OECD, the Council of Europe, and European Schoolnet) by taking account of their activities and analysing the scope for cooperation; 6. Welcomes the Commission's efforts to include in the draft detailed work programme clearly-defined and realistic objectives, a demonstration of the 'European added-value' of the action being proposed, and performance indicators to measure progress towards attainment of objectives; 7. Notes that the draft detailed work programme nevertheless does not contain an estimate of the budgetary implications for the European Community of the actions proposed; 8. Reiterates its support for the goal of attainment by every school-leaver of proficiency in at least two European languages other than