Consensus" OJ C 46, 24.2.2006, p. 1. , – having regard to the Conclusions of the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 12 December 2005 and 16 and17 October 2006, – having regard to the Doha Ministerial Declaration WT/MIN(01)/DEC/1. of the Fourth Session of the Ministerial Conference of the WTO, adopted on 14 November 2001, – having regard to the Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration WT/MIN(05)/DEC. of the Sixth Session of the Ministerial Conference of the WTO, adopted on 18 December 2005, – having regard to the United Nations' Millennium Declaration A/RES/55/2. of 8 September 2000, which sets out the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as criteria collectively established by the international community for the elimination of poverty, – having regard to the "The Millennium Development Goals - Report 2005" and "The Millennium Development Goals - Report 2006"of the United Nations, – having regard to the reports by the UN Millennium Project Task Forces, – having regard to the Gleneagles Communiqué released on 8 July 2005 by the Group of Eight (G8), – having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on International Trade and the opinion of the Committee on Development ( A6-0088/2007 ), A. whereas a balanced, rules-based multilateral trading system is crucial to the ability of developing countries to participate in, and benefit from, international trade, B. whereas, over the past 40 years, the share of world trade of the least developed countries (LDCs) has declined from 1.9% to less than 1% despite the expansion, over recent years, of bilateral duty free and quota free access schemes for their products (of which the Community's 'Everything But Arms' scheme is the largest), C. whereas economic growth and the integration of developing countries into the global economy is a major condition for attaining the objective of eradicating poverty in the context of sustainable development and the pursuit of the MDGs, D. whereas peace and the common and universal values of respect for, and promotion of, human rights, fundamental freedoms, good governance, democratisation and the rule of law are essential to enable developing countries to both reduce poverty and realise the benefits to be derived from greater trade opportunities, E. whereas, as noted in the "European Consensus on Development", the Community, drawing on its own experiences and exclusive competence in trade, has a comparative advantage in providing support to partner countries to integrate trade into national development strategies and in supporting regional co-operation, F. whereas the Hong Kong Declaration of the Sixth Ministerial Conference of the WTO states that "Aid for Trade should aim to help developing countries, particularly LDCs, to build the supply-side capacity and trade-related infrastructure that they need to assist them to implement and benefit from WTO Agreements and more broadly to expand their trade", G. whereas globalisation is an ongoing and unstoppable process that presents opportunities and challenges but also raises the risk of marginalising countries, in particular the poorest countries, as well as marginalising the most vulnerable groups within those countries, notably where income gaps within and