to discover if catches are not declared properly. CONCLUSIONS 1. The Committee on Budgets deplores that the European Commission has presented its proposal for a Council regulation on the conclusion of the present protocol more than 4 months after initialling the protocol. The committee welcomes the fact that the protocol provides for the financial compensation for the first year to be paid before 15 January 2002. This will leave the necessary time for the consultation of Parliament before the first payment to Guinea-Bissau has to be effected. 2. The Committee on Budgets welcomes the inclusion of a suspension clause in the protocol, which gives the possibility to suspend the fishing agreement either in the case that the Community fails to make the payments provide for in the protocol (Article 6) or in the case that the circumstances prevent fishing activities in the fishing zone of Guinea-Bissau (Article 7). Such clauses will help to avoid the difficulties which occurred in the context of other fisheries agreements when the fishing could not be carried through as provided for in the respective protocols and agreements (which was the case under the previous protocol with Guinea-Bissau). 3. The overall utilisation of the fishing opportunities under the previous protocol was rather weak. Although this can partly be justified by the suspension of the fishing activitities for almost a year in 1998/99, it can be questioned, if it is necessary to increase the financial contribution. In particular, when the targeted measures are still very low compared to agreements with other ACP countries. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Fisheries, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C (not yet published). Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Article 3b (1) (new) 1. In the course of the Protocol's application, and before the start of negotiations on its possible renewal, the Commission shall submit to the Council and European Parliament a new general assessment report including a cost benefit analysis as soon as possible. Justification Before the expiry of the previous protocol, the European Commission presented to Parliament an evaluation report on the previous protocol after initialling the new protocol. The Commission did not provide the European Parliament with information allowing a serious assessment and the presentation of an opinion by the Parliament before the start of negotiations. Amendment 2 Article 3b (2) (new) 2. The Council shall, on the basis of this report and taking account of the European Parliament's opinion thereon, authorise the Commission, where appropriate, to start negotiations with a view to the adoption of a new Protocol. Justification The Committee on Budgets reiterates the demand for the general assessment report to be presented by the Commission before the beginning of negotiations on a new or renewed agreement or protocol. The Council shall only give the authorisation to the Commission to start negotiations on the basis of the assessment report and the opinion of the European Parliament. This position is in line with the conclusion N o D of the Working Document on