an applicant, to provide a technical opinion on a decision in the negative taken by a safety authority as regards the granting of a safety certificate or a safety authorisation pursuant to Articles 10 and 11. (11) Article 26 shall be replaced by the following: Article 26 Adaptation of the Annexes The measures designed to amend non-essential elements of this Directive, by adapting the Annexes to scientific and technical progress, shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory ║ procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 27(2a). On imperative grounds of urgency, the Commission may have recourse to the urgency procedure referred to in Article 27(2b). " ; 12) in Article 27, the following paragraphs 2a and 2b shall be inserted: " 2a. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5a(1) to (4) and Article 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 2b. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5a(1), (2), (4) and (6) and Article 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. ▌ Article 2 Transposition 1. Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than ... * 24 months after the entry into force of this Directive . . They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text of those provisions and a correlation table between those provisions and this Directive. When Member States adopt these provisions, the latter shall contain a reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such reference on the occasion of their official publication. The methods of making such reference shall be laid down by the Member States. 2. Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the […] day following the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States. Done at ║, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ▌