Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (26 March 2010) 1. The decision Decision No 1098/2008/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2008 on the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion (2010) (Text with EEA relevance), OJ L 298, 7.11.2008. establishing the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion requires the National Implementing Bodies (NIBs) appointed in each participating country to prepare and launch calls for proposals/tenders. To implement the European Year at national level, a total of EUR 9 264 600 has been set aside from the EU budget for allocation among the participating countries in accordance with the Commission decision of 7 September 2009 Commission Decision C(2009)6697 final of 7 September 2009 approving the Annual Programme of Grants and Public Procurement Contracts, serving as a Financing Decision for 2010 for the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion (2010) and the National Implementing Bodies designated by participating countries. . In each country, the amount allocated is to be supplemented by national co-funding at least equal in amount from public or private sources and managed by the NIBs. The amount allocated to the NIB in Italy is EUR 765 669. The calls for proposals issued in Italy in January and February 2010 in connection with the European Year are now closed. In line with the Year’s objectives, they were intended to fund awareness-raising activities and not direct actions. 2 and 3. The European Social Fund (ESF) and the Progress programme provide support for projects in the area of social inclusion. The ESF was set up to reduce differences in prosperity and living standards across the Member States and regions and thus to promote economic and social cohesion. It provides support inter alia for activities in the Member States to promote women’s employment, including projects to reconcile work and family life and support for childcare facilities and carers of dependents. The Progress programme was established to provide financial support for the implementation of the EU’s objectives in employment, social affairs and equal opportunities as set out in the Social Agenda. The Commission selects the projects to be granted funding by calls for tender or for proposals See http://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=629&langId=en and co-finances up to 80 % of the cost, with some exceptions. Projects can be submitted by the Member States, local and regional authorities, public employment services, national statistical institutes, specialised bodies, universities, research institutes, the social partners and non-governmental organisations. The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) can also support projects in the field of women's entrepreneurship and of childcare provision. ERDF policy helps to finance concrete projects for regions, towns and their inhabitants. The idea is to create potential so that the regions can fully contribute to achieving greater growth and competitiveness and, at the same time, to exchange ideas and best practices. Further information on all ERDF funded programmes is available here: http://ec.europa.eu/regional_policy/atlas2007/index_en.htm Although the Structural Funds (both ESF and ERDF) are part of the EU budget, the way they are spent is based on a system of shared responsibility between