paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 The Administrative Board shall meet at least twice a year. Extraordinary meetings shall be convened at the request of either one-third of the members of the Administrative Board representing at least 30% of the voting rights , at the request of the Community or of the Executive Director. The Administrative Board shall meet at least twice a year. Extraordinary meetings shall be convened either at the request of one-third of the members of the Administrative Board representing at least 30% of the voting rights or at the request of the Executive Director. Justification The possibility of convening extraordinary meetings at request of one-third of the members of the Board should be sufficient for the Community. There should be no need for an additional proviso. Amendment 17 Annex, article 6, paragraph 1 1. The Executive Director shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Joint Undertaking and is its legal representative. He shall be appointed by the Administrative Board on a proposal from the European Commission. He shall perform his duties with complete independence. 1. The Executive Director shall be responsible for the day-to-day management of the Joint Undertaking and is its legal representative. He shall be appointed by the Administrative Board on a proposal from the Commission , based on the results of the public recruitment competition . He shall perform his duties with complete independence. Justification The aim of this amendment is to reinforce the total openness and transparency of the appointment process, which should be based on the principle of appointing the best candidate after considering the merits of all. Amendment 18 Annex, article 11, paragraph 3, subparagraph 2 In the case of undertakings, subscribing individually or collectively, which may be regarded as small or medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of the Commission recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, this amount shall be reduced to EUR 250 000 regardless of when they become members. In the case of undertakings, subscribing individually or collectively, which may be regarded as small or medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of the Commission recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, this amount shall be reduced to EUR 250 000 regardless of when they become members. Founder members shall have the option of staggering this payment over several instalments, over a period to be agreed . Justification SMEs do not have the resources to pay the sum of EUR 250 000 all at once: should they be obliged to do so, they will ask for a loan on the financial markets. As an SME's credit rating is generally lower than that of a big company, it is important to enable SMEs' maximum contribution to be divided into several instalments, thus increasing the chances of external funding, reducing the short-term financial burden and enhancing the probability of long-term returns. Amendment 19 Annex, article 11, paragraph 6 6. The Administrative Board shall propose to the Commission the level and the cost-base of the levy on the air navigation charges referred