Chairman of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy Translation Dear Chairman, The Budgets Committee has taken note of the Commission proposal COM (2002) 12 for a Council Decision providing supplementary macro-financial assistance to Ukraine. The proposal aims at making available a long-term loan facility of up to EUR 110 million with a view to ensuring a sustainable balance-of-payments situation and to strengthening the country's reserve position. This new proposal was expected by the Budgets Committee, as the economic situation in the Ukraine has improved and it makes a loan instrument already authorised in 1998 available again under new and more favourable conditions. When Council approved in October 1998 the third macro-financial loan for Ukraine for an amount of EUR 150 million, the Guarantee Fund was provisioned for to cover the total amount of the facility. As you know, macro-financial assistance to third countries is guaranteed 100% by the Guarantee Fund. Although only a first tranche of EUR 58 million was disbursed for reasons we are aware of, the Guarantee Fund remained provisioned for the total amount of the loan. Therefore, an amount of EUR 92 million out of the total envelope of EUR 110 million envisaged for this "new" facility is already covered by the Guarantee Fund. The provisioning for the remaining EUR 18 million only amounts to EUR 1.62 million. It is for your Committee and Parliament to examine the merit of this new proposal. We note, however, that the political and economic situation in the Ukraine is now such that the adoption of this instrument would seem to be appropriate. As regards the current situation in the Guarantee Reserve, in particular, I see no objections to it. The limited margin under the ceiling of the Guarantee Reserve can still cover the provisioning of the outstanding amount. As regards the general situation of the Guarantee Fund Mechanism, the Committee on Budgets has expressed its concern over the last two years about the limited lending capacity and the operation of the Guarantee Reserve. Following the recommendations of the Budgets Committee, the Commission has finally presented a Communication on EC/Euratom Lending and Guarantee Capacity for External Actions ( COM (2002) 20 ) with a series of proposals to expand lending capacity. However, these proposals will not affect the operation of the current new instrument under consideration. In conclusion, please note that the Budgets Committee has no objection to this new instrument. Yours sincerely, Terry Wynn Esko Seppänen Chairman Standing Rapporteur