available to such stakeholders. The Commission shall inform the Committee established under Article 6(1) of their opinion. Justification Stakeholders in the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All must be able to participate fully not only in the design and implementation of the objectives of the European Year but also in its assessment. Amendment 13 Article 5, paragraph 1, subparagraph 2 Each State shall ensure that this body is involved in the design, definition and execution of the National Policy Plan to be submitted to the Commission by 31 December 2006 at the latest. National Policy Plans shall consist of translating the objectives set out in Article 2 into the national and cultural contexts. Each State shall ensure that this body is involved in the design, definition , execution and assessment of the National Policy Plan to be submitted to the Commission by 31 December 2006 at the latest. National Policy Plans shall consist of translating the objectives set out in Article 2 into the national and cultural contexts. Justification The body responsible at national level for the implementation of the European Year should be involved not only in the design of the National Policy Plan which implements the objectives stated for the European Year but also in its assessment at national level. Amendment 14 Article 6, paragraph 1 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee, composed of one representative per State and chaired by a representative of the Commission. The representative per State shall be designated from the national intermediary body as referred to in Article 5(2). 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee, composed of one representative per State and a few representatives of relevant international organisations and chaired by a representative of the Commission. The representative per State shall be designated from the national intermediary body as referred to in Article 5(2). Amendment 15 Article 6, paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. The Commission and the Member States shall ensure that women and men are equally represented on the Committee. Amendment 16 Article 7, paragraph 1 1. Measures which are Community-wide in nature, as described in Part I of the Annex, may be subsidised up to 80% or give rise to procurement contracts financed from the general budget of the European Communities. 1. Measures which are Community-wide in nature - including initiatives of relevant international organisations - as described in Part I of the Annex, may be subsidised up to 80% or give rise to procurement contracts financed from the general budget of the European Communities. Amendment 17 Article 12 Within the framework of the European Year, the Commission may cooperate with the relevant international organisations. Within the framework of the European Year, the Commission shall cooperate with the relevant international organisations. Amendment 18 Annex, title I, point 3, paragraph 1 Cooperation with corporate, broadcasting and media organisations in particular as partners spreading the information about the European Year Cooperation with non-governmental, corporate, broadcasting and media organisations in particular as partners spreading the information about the European Year Justification Non-governmental organisations should be fully fledged partners