Answer given by Mr Kallas on behalf of the Commission (16 February 2006) Almost all customs frauds are based on one type of, or a combination of, three ‘traditional’ methods: false declaration of origin, false declaration of value and false description of the products. The purpose of the frauds at import can be to evade economic controls or prohibitions — such as import quotas or public health prohibitions — or financial — to reduce the liability at import to payment of customs or other duties. Such fraud methods apply to all products and are not exclusive to, for example, textiles or footwear. It is important to distinguish between goods which are imported at an (apparently) uneconomic value, for which effective trade defence measures exist, and those where the sole purpose is to evade the payment of correct customs and other duties. Moreover, it is worth recalling that declaring low-priced imports at their actual selling price obviously cannot be construed as a customs fraud. With regard to textile products, clothing and footwear imports, OLAF is, in the exercise of its independent investigative powers, actively working on identifying illegal traffic at an early stage. In the specific field of trade in textiles, which until 1 January 2005 was covered by bilateral agreements under the agreement on textiles and clothes, a system of export and import licenses plus certificates of origin was in place to ensure that quotas were not circumvented through false declarations. This system also applies to the existing quantitative arrangement in force with China since 11 June 2005. It has been applied by China as to export licensing since 20 July 2005. The surveillance system established by the Commission on 1 January 2005 aimed at providing information on the flow of import through reporting from Member States of import licenses granted. This surveillance system expired at the end of 2005 and has been replaced by the above mentioned double control system for products under quota. The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) currently has more than a dozen separate fraud investigation cases on hand which have been opened in response to suspicious or irregular textile and footwear imports. In some cases, the real origin of the products has already been determined; in others that investigation phase is ongoing. In practice, cooperation with Member States can take several forms, ranging from the provision and exchange of information and intelligence, to operational case coordination, including joint on the ground investigation activity and related exercises involving targeted controls, such as the operation ‘FAKE’ carried out in May 2005 by TAXUD and OLAF on counterfeit goods coming from China Note that some of 15 % of the products seized during the operation were textile goods ( 59535 kg/ 80325 pieces). , and whose success is attributable to the close cooperation and constant communications between EU customs authorities. At the Community level, the Commission — as represented by OLAF — plays a central lead role in the organisation and coordination of the anti-fraud strategy. By utilising specific Community legislation Council Regulation (EC) No 515/97 of 13 March 1997 on