the death penalty, and whereas fresh death sentences have been pronounced in recent months, G. whereas in response to the first encouraging steps taken by Belarus, the Commission has already entered into an intensified dialogue with that country in fields such as energy, the environment, customs, transport and food safety and confirmed its readiness to further expand the scope of those talks, H. whereas on 30 November the Italian Prime Minister paid an official visit to Belarus, thus becoming the first EU head of government to go to Minsk in the past 10 years; whereas during this visit he made statements legitimising the elections that brought Lukashenko to power and failed to meet representatives of the opposition, 1. Takes note of the decision by the Council to extend the restrictive measures against certain Belarusian officials and at the same time to maintain the suspension of the application of travel restrictions imposed on certain officials of Belarus for a twelve-month period; 2. Stresses that the increased political dialogue and the establishment of the Human Rights Dialogue between the EU and Belarus must lead to concrete results and substantial progress in the fields of democratic reforms and respect for human rights and the rule of law; 3. Supports the decision by the Council to launch negotiations on visa facilitation with Belarus and considers this a fundamental step with a view to stepping up people-to-people contacts and facilitating relations between local communities and municipalities; 4. Considers Belarus's participation in the Eastern Partnership an important step forward with a view to promoting further dialogue and deepening relations on the basis of Belarus's readiness and commitment to attain the objectives of this initiative; takes note, in this regard, of the willingness to cooperate shown by Belarus's authorities during the talks; 5. Notes that, in its Conclusions of 17 November 2009, the Council called on the Commission to make a proposal for a joint interim plan to set priorities for reforms, inspired by the Action Plans developed in the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, to be implemented with Belarus; 6. Takes the view, in this respect, that the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the EU and Belarus, which has been frozen since 1997, should be reactivated once all the political reforms have been completed and implemented; 7. Regrets that, after some initial limited positive steps undertaken by the Belarus Government, no further progress has been made in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms; expresses its concern, in this respect, at the continued repression against political opponents, artists and journalists and the refusal to register political parties, NGOs and independent media; 8. Calls on the Belarusian authorities to review the 'restricted freedom' sentences imposed on participants in a peaceful demonstration in January 2008 as well as the imprisonment of Mr Artsyom Dubski, who, according to Amnesty International, is a prisoner of conscience, as are those sentenced to 'restricted freedom'; calls for the immediate release of entrepreneurs Mikalai Awtukhovich and Uladzimir Asipenka, who have been held in pre-trial detention for eight months; 9. Firmly condemns the recurrent