information is prescribed by Regulations 79 to 83 of the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994. The forms to be used are set out in Schedules 15 and 16 of those Regulations. The statistical information must be submitted on a yearly basis. Default in complying with these obligations is an offence. Supervisory powers of competent authorities : UK legislation attributes to the Secretary of State a wide range of powers to perform his supervisory duties, equivalent to those required by Article 10 of the 3LD. Sections 37 to 47 of the ICA 1982, as amended, list those powers and stipulate the grounds on which they can be exercised and the formalities that must be observed when exercising them. Under the ICA 1982 the Secretary of State has ample powers to obtain information from and to investigate insurance companies. Under those powers, the Secretary of State may request the appointed actuary to make an investigation into the company’s financial condition or he can appoint a person to investigate whether the criteria of sound and prudent management has been fulfilled. The Secretary of State, or a person authorised by him, may require a company to furnish him with information about specific matters and to produce books, papers or other documents as may be specified. If the Secretary of State considers there are reasonable grounds for believing that documents whose submission has been required and which have not been produced are held on any premises, he may request a justice of the peace to issue a warrant authorising a constable to enter and search the premises. Powers over the company’s assets : The Secretary of State may require the assets of a company used to cover its liabilities to be maintained in the UK . He can also require the whole or a specified proportion of those assets to be held by a person approved by him as trustee for the company. Finally, he can apply before a court for an injunction to restrict the company’s freedom to dispose of its assets. These powers can only be exercised on the basis of a narrower set of grounds. The exercise of these powers, in particular the power to restrict a company’s freedom to dispose of its assets, is also subject to more stringent formalities. The Secretary of State may also impose requirements on investments (in so far as the value of its assets does not exceed the amount of its liabilities), limit premium income and require further and earlier information. The list of powers enumerated by the Act closes with a broad residual power which entitles the Secretary of State to require a company to take such action as appears appropriate to him for the purpose of protecting policyholders against the risk that the company may be unable to meet its liabilities or to fulfil the reasonable expectations of policyholders or potential policyholders and for the purpose of ensuring that the company observes sound and prudent management principles. Failure to comply with a requirement imposed in the exercise of any of the powers mentioned above is an offence.