Answer given by Mr McCreevy on behalf of the Commission (5 January 2006) 1. The Commission is aware of the new initiative introduced by the Dutch new Health Insurance Act and of the questions which are raised in relation to this measure. Nonetheless, the Commission does not share the concern regarding the uncertainty allegedly created by this measure as regards its relationship with European Union competition policy and the common market. In fact, following the notification of the planned new Act by the Dutch authorities, the Commission examined the proposed measure and assessed its conformity with the EC Treaty, in particular its compatibility with the latter’s State aid provisions, as well as with the established case-law. As a result of this process, by Decision of 3 May 2005, the Commission authorised under its State aid rules public funding for a fundamental reform of the health insurance system in the Netherlands. In particular, it was noted that the objective of the reform is to guarantee access for all citizens while promoting efficiency and financial sustainability in healthcare provision. To this end, the authorities will set up a risk equalisation system between insurers and support the transformation of the system by granting start-up capital to certain insurers. The Commission considered that the aid does not distort competition to an extent contrary to the common interest and can therefore be authorised. In approving this aid scheme, the Commission also took into account the fact that the measures introduced by the Dutch authorities ensure that all market players, whether currently present in the market as the Sickness Funds or the ‘private’ insurance companies or any potential market entrants, have the chance to compete and offer better and cheaper services to the citizens. Finally, the Commission also notes that in reforming the healthcare system, the Dutch Government is acting in accordance with one of the priorities of the Lisbon Strategy, namely to aim at financially sustainable and viable healthcare and long term care. 2. Under the Treaty on the European Union, Member States are free to organise and finance their social security systems, i.e. determine the balance between public and private health provision. Each Member State can therefore determine the conditions concerning the right or duty to be insured under a social security scheme and the conditions for entitlement to benefit. However, if private health insurance is chosen for the provision of social security cover, according to the European Court of Justice, private health insurers fall under the EU Insurance Directives. In particular, where a Member State decides to open up coverage of a risk belonging to the statutory social security regime to private insurers, it has to accept that any EU insurance undertaking may cover that risk on the basis of the freedom of establishment/freedom to provide services. Non‑Dutch health insurers will be subject to the same restrictions and will also be entitled to claim payments under the risk equalisation system. 3. Because of the nature and social consequences of private health insurance contracts, the Third Non‑Life Insurance Directive Council Directive 92/49/EEC of 18 June 1992