conditions, have harmful effects on human health. (5) Because of the characteristics of organic solvents, their use in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products gives rise to emissions of organic compounds into the air, which contributes to the local and transboundary formation of photochemical oxidants in the boundary layer of the troposphere and, under certain exposure conditions, have harmful effects on human health. Justification Need for scope consistency and legal clarity Amendment 2 Recital 5 (a) (new) (5a) The purpose of this Directive and in particular future revisions is to prevent the direct and indirect emissions into the general or human environment of VOCs due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products, and the direct health risks to human health, by limiting the maximum content of VOC. Justification One major health effect of VOC emissions is occupational hazards for professional and non-professional painters. This directive should take these considerations and existing regulations into account in particular in future revisions. Amendment 3 Recital 6 (6) Emissions of VOCs should therefore be avoided or reduced, especially since potentially less harmful substitutes are available or will soon be. (6) Emissions of VOCs should therefore be avoided or reduced, especially since potentially less harmful substitutes for decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products are available or will soon be. Justification Need for scope consistency and legal clarity. Amendment 4 Recital 7 (7) The use of organic solvents and the emissions of VOCs should be reduced as much as technically and economically feasible. (7) Emissions of VOCs from decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products should be reduced where technically and economically feasible. Justification Need for scope consistency and legal clarity Amendment 5 Recital 8 (8) A high level of environmental protection requires the setting and achievement of content limit values for VOCs used in certain categories of products. (8) A high level of environmental protection requires the setting and achievement of content limit values for VOCs used in decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products, for example. Justification This amendment clarifies the scope of the directive and the need for it. Amendment 6 Recital 9 (a) (new) 9a. The repair and refurbishment of certain old and treasured vehicles may require the use of authentic repair materials . Justification Some types of vehicles in preservation need to be finished in the original coatings to maintain authenticity or to avoid chemical reactions with paints when effecting a repair. Amendment 7 Recital 10 (10) Content limit values need to be monitored in order to determine whether the mass concentrations of VOCs found in each category of products covered by this Directive are within the permitted limits. (10) Content limit values need to be monitored in order to determine whether the mass concentrations of VOCs found in each category of decorative paints and varnishes and vehicle refinishing products covered by this Directive are within the permitted limits. Justification Need for scope consistency and legal clarity. Amendment 8 Recital 11 (11) Council Directive 1999/13/EC of 11 March 1999