the elections during December. She called for a larger EP presence in the observation mission for any new elections. The shared European soul, she said, was more present in Kiev than anywhere else today. Francis WURTZ (FR), leader of the GUE/NGL group, said the developments in Ukraine were good for democracy, with fear and fatalism being challenged by the calm of demonstrators pressing for change. There was already a visible change of view in the army, the media and the Supreme Court, he said. It was important to avoid over-optimism and oversimplification, he said. It was irresponsible to present the events as a trial of strength between Russia and the west. Once new elections had been held, it would be time to engage in calm dialogue to open a perspective for Ukraine to feel at home in Europe. For the Independence and Democracy Group, Filip ADWENT (PL), welcomed the calm and dignity of the demonstrators, witnessed by the whole world. He welcomed the enthusiasm, but cautioned against blindness. It was not the case that one side was all black and the other all white: one side had been rightly reproached for failing to respect democratic electoral principals, but some supporters of the opposition had been distributing leaflets inciting hatred against Poles, Russians and Jews. He was sure they were only a small minority, but minorities, he said, can sometimes hijack revolutions to gain power. For the UEN group, Michał Tomasz KAMIŃSKI (PL) said that orange was now the colour of liberty. He had spent 10 days in Ukraine and felt that Kiev was now the capital of Europe, with millions in the streets fighting for European values of freedom and democracy. The EU was not interfering in favour of one particular candidate, but Parliament should be clear that rigged votes were not acceptable. The resolution before Parliament would show all Europeans speaking with one voice in favour of Ukrainian democracy and liberty. He said he had heard no voices attacking Poles or Jews while in Ukraine, and that allegations of extreme nationalism were simply a provocation. Ryszard CZARNECKI ( PL), a non-attached MEP, said we were all Ukrainian today, but that Europe should continue supporting democracy in Ukraine even when it becomes less fashionable. Many in this Parliament, he said, had tasted democracy only recently. The events in Serbia and Georgia had shown it was possible to reverse rigged elections. The EU was partly to blame for not clearly signalling in the past that it was waiting for Ukraine; it should have protested more at the first round results. Parliament would be saving the honour of Europe with its clear stance. Charles TANNOCK (EPP-ED, UK) stated that he was proud that it was MEPs that were the " first foreigners to address the crowds in Kiev ". He stated that he trusted " that justice would be reached through people power ". He could not accept the results of the elections that had been " manipulated by a powerful autocratic elite ". Mr Tannock welcomed the vote of no confidence from the