continue to experience real financial hardship as a result of seeing the returns they had expected from their savings very dramatically reduced " (WE 16) Page 745. . Some witnesses also emphasised the worry and distress they have suffered in addition to their financial losses. " I can tell you there were sleepless nights, there was tension ... this is not just about legalities; there is a human story behind it " (Mr KNOWD, H2). Ms KWANTES in H7 struck a similar note: "[It] caused so much trauma to so many people. I have heard from so many people who really have had sleepless nights over a long period of time. People have become physically ill over it, which I think is very sad ." As mentioned above, the various classes of policyholder are affected to different degrees. Generally speaking, policyholders without GAR's who had purchased policies after 1988 have had to foot the bill for the implementation of the judgement by the House of Lords ("Hyman case"), which ordered the Society to meet its commitments to GAR policyholders. Among the non-GAR policyholders, two groups seem to have been particularly disadvantaged: The first group are the so-called late-joiners, who joined shortly before Equitable Life's near-collapse. Some of them even joined after the House of Lords judgement as the " Society continued to take in new business from after the decision of the House of Lords on 20 July 2000 until it closed to new business on 8 December 2000 " (WE-CONF 21). According to Mr WEIR (H2), Chairman of the Equitable Late Contributors Action Group, the late joiners " were persuaded to invest money with Equitable Life long after the society knew that it was in deep trouble ... and later on were asked to pay for all the problems without having gained from any of the supposed benefits ". Similarly, EMAG argues in WE-CONF 16 that the 16% flat rate policy value cut fell more heavily upon those non-GAR policyholders who joined late and had therefore never benefited from the over-bonusing. This view is supported by Mr BOSWOOD in WE 76 Page 3. . Mr THOMSON (H8) took a different view: " The reason for applying reductions at a flat rate was to achieve greater fairness to all policyholders. That decision was taken by the board having considered a range of options with the appointed actuary ". The second group is referred to as 'trapped annuitants'. As Mr SCAWEN (H3) pointed out before the committee, " we cannot or are not allowed to transfer our policies to another provider. Thus, the Society can reduce and has reduced our annuity payments by substantial sums, in my case by some 40%, with the prospect of continuing reductions in my income for the rest of my life ". III. Complaints to the UK regulators and official investigations 1. Complaints to the FSA After the events at ELAS, there has been continuing outrage and demand from the policyholders for explanation and redress. According to EMAG's petition to the European Parliament (WE 14 Page 28. ),