Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (9 February 2010) Information and communication technologies (ICT) are particularly important to people with disabilities, who have a greater need than most for technological assistance in their day-to-day activities. People with disabilities have a right to share, on equal terms, in the rapid development of products and services derived from new technologies, since this will enable them to participate in an inclusive information society without barriers. The Commission implements a horizontal policy on the rights of persons with disabilities that was stepped up in the 2003 European year of persons with disabilities and is framed in multi-annual disability action plans (the next plan will be adopted mid‑2010). This horizontal policy covers all aspects, including technology. In this framework, the Commission has proposed a Directive on equal rights to access all products and services that explicitly mentions the rights of persons with disabilities, and it is also working on the practical follow-up of the United Nations Convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. In addition, the Commission implements a policy on the information society that addressed e-accessibility as part of a broader priority on e-inclusion, i.e. aiming at participation of everyone to the information society. Specific Commission policy on e-accessibility is framed in the communication ‘towards an accessible information society’ COM(2008)804. . Main action lines include: specific provisions on persons with disabilities in the telecom directives (recently reviewed); funding from the EU research programme for projects on technologies for persons with disabilities and elderly as well as funding from the ICT Policy Support Programme (within the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme) for deployment projects on e-accessibility (e.g. projects on accessible TV or emergency services); dialogue with stakeholders and promotions (e.g. through conferences). Within EU information society policy, actions relevant to persons with disabilities address the accessibility of technologies (e‑accessibility) in general, often focusing on specific user requirements and impairments. The focus is on the technology and no specific action is taken in relation to the income of potential users. The Digital Agenda that will be developed by the new Commission will put specific emphasis on digital inclusion and skills, with a view to averting the emergence of a digital divide- a risk clearly identified in President Barroso's political guidelines.