latter's representative and with the Commissioner responsible present. The rapporteur may table compromise amendments following such discussion. 6. The committee responsible shall submit a recommendation for second reading proposing the approval, amendment or rejection of the common position adopted by the Council. The recommendation shall include a short justification for the decision proposed. Plenary stage Rule 60 Conclusion of second reading 1. The Council's common position and, where available, the recommendation for second reading of the committee responsible shall automatically be placed on the draft agenda for the part-session whose Wednesday falls before and closest to the day of expiry of the period of three months or, if extended in accordance with Rule 58, of four months, unless the matter has been dealt with at an earlier part-session. The recommendations for second readings submitted by parliamentary committees are equivalent to an explanatory statement in which the committee justifies its position in relation to the Council's common position. There is no vote on these texts. 2. The second reading shall be concluded when Parliament approves, rejects or amends the common position within the time limits and in accordance with the conditions laid down by Articles 251 and 252 of the EC Treaty. Rule 61 Rejection of the Council's common position 1. The committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members may, in writing and before a deadline set by the President, table a proposal to reject the common position of the Council. Such a proposal shall require for adoption the votes of a majority of the component Members of Parliament. A proposal to reject the common position shall be voted on before voting on any amendments. 2. Notwithstanding a vote by Parliament against the initial proposal to reject the common position, Parliament may, on the recommendation of the rapporteur, consider a further proposal for rejection after voting on the amendments and hearing a statement from the Commission pursuant to Rule 62(5). 3. If the common position of the Council is rejected, the President shall announce in Parliament that the legislative procedure is closed. 4. By way of derogation from paragraph 3, if a rejection by Parliament falls under the provisions of Article 252 of the EC Treaty, the President shall request the Commission to withdraw its proposal. If the Commission does so, the President shall announce in Parliament that the legislative procedure is closed. Rule 62 Amendments to the Council's common position 1. The committee responsible, a political group or at least forty Members may table amendments to the Council's common position for consideration in Parliament. 2. An amendment to the common position shall be admissible only if it conforms to the provisions of Rules 150 and 151 and seeks: (a) to restore wholly or partly the position adopted by Parliament in its first reading; or (b) to reach a compromise between the Council and Parliament; or (c) to amend a part of the text of a common position which was not included in - or differs in content from - the proposal submitted in first reading and which does not