Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (8 December 2004) During 2002, a series of missions was undertaken by the Food and Veterinary Office to all Member States in order to evaluate the operation of official controls over the traceability of beef and beef products from the retail outlet to the farm of origin. In addition, the implementation of Community legislation over the labelling of beef and beef products was evaluated. Particular attention was paid to the following areas: — farm registration and animal identification; — animal movements; — slaughter, cutting, storage and distribution chain ; — retail distribution, storage and sale chain; — labelling of beef and beef products. The mission in Greece took place from 26 November to 6 December 2002. The report of this mission was sent to the Parliament in the usual manner and is available under reference number: DG(SANCO)/8660/2002 on the Health and Consumer Protection Directorate-General internet site at http://europa.eu.int/comm/food/fs/sc/ssc/outcome_en.html. The results of this mission can be summarised as follows: With regard to the specific requirements for holding registration, animal identification, movement controls and labelling of beef and minced beef, no major differences were identified between EU and Greek legislation. Responsibilities in relation to the supervision of, and controls over, compulsory and voluntary beef labelling have been established. However, due to the number of different authorities involved, the supervision was, in some cases insufficient. The Greek database for bovine animals was only being set up in 2002 and was expected to be operational by the end of July 2003. Although progress in the data entry was achieved in 2002, on-the-spot checks by the mission team showed that the database was far from being operational because much of the data entered was wrong or incomplete. Neither the old system, nor the new database, provided all of the information needed to allow tracing of animal movements from the slaughterhouse back to the farm of origin. The Greek authorities provided an action plan to address the recommendations in the report. Not all of the responses in the action plan were judged to be satisfactory and these will be followed up during a general review mission to Greece in 2005. The Commission is keeping the overall situation in Greece under close review. Commission officials are in regular contact with the Greek authorities to impress on them the need for effective action.