27 September 2001 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Christopher Huhne and Carles-Alfred Gasòliba i Böhm on behalf of the ELDR Group on statements by the finance ministers tending to weaken the Stability and Growth Pact European Parliament resolution on statements by the finance ministers tending to weaken the Stability and Growth Pact The European Parliament, A. whereas the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) was agreed in Dublin in 1996 and has been in force since 1997, with the objective of sound government finances as a means of strengthening the conditions for price stability and strong sustainable growth, B. whereas some recent statements by prominent EU ministers have given the impression that they wish to modify the Stability and Growth Pact, C. whereas in its conclusions to the Gothenburg summit the European Council mentions ‘cyclically adjusted budgetary positions’ and states that ‘the automatic stabilisers should be allowed to work where possible’, D. whereas, on the one hand, at an informal meeting in Liège on Sept 21, 2001 Ecofin restated its commitment to the SGP but, on the other hand, the EU Heads of State and Government concluded on the same day that room has been provided for automatic stabilisers to come into play, without qualifications, 1. Insists that the Stability and Growth Pact must be respected, as it ensures stable and sustainable fiscal policies and is an essential instrument for successful implementation of stage three of the Economic and Monetary Union; 2. Is concerned that the Council’s conclusions at Gothenburg (paragraph 34) and some recent statements by EU finance ministers may be interpreted as a wish for a relaxation of the SPG and calls on both Ecofin and the Heads of State and Government to reconfirm their total support for the pact; 3. Points out that there must be no deviation from the deficit reference value of 3% of GDP, and that this limit already gives a certain leeway for adjustments to the business cycle; stresses that countries that have not yet reached the goal of balance cannot allow automatic stabilisers to come fully into play; 4. Is aware that Europe is facing a slowdown and that this puts increased pressure on European finance ministers, but underlines that credibility would be seriously damaged if budgetary discipline were to be perceived as something that only applied during upswings; 5. Takes the view that for the future, it would be desirable for the ECB, the Commission and Ecofin to agree on a common definition of ‘underlying budget balance’, as this could serve as an additional analytical tool and help to further increase discipline; 6. Urges finance ministers to improve monitoring of fiscal positions in the framework of preparing Broad Economic Policy Guidelines in order to improve coordination of euro‑zone policies and their application in the stability programmes; 7. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the ECB.