{ "context": [ [ "Interair South Africa", [ "Inter Aviation Services (Pty) Ltd, which traded as Interair South Africa, is a formally privately owned airline based in Johannesburg, South Africa.", " It operated scheduled passenger services from Johannesburg to regional destinations in Africa.", " Its main base was O. R. Tambo International Airport, Johannesburg." ] ], [ "R24 road", [ "The R24 is a major East-West provincial route in the Greater Johannesburg Metropolitan Area and North West province that links OR Tambo International Airport with Rustenburg via Johannesburg, Krugersdorp and Magaliesburg.", " The process of renaming the streets and freeway that form the route from Krugersdorp eastward to OR Tambo International after Albertina Sisulu was completed in 2013." ] ], [ "African International Airways", [ "African International Airways was an all-cargo airline based in Johannesburg, South Africa.", " The airline operated international chartered cargo flights out of Kent International Airport, United Kingdom, OR Tambo International Airport, Johannesburg and Ostend-Bruges International Airport, Belgium, most of which were on behalf of Intavia Limited." ] ], [ "Egoli Air", [ "Egoli Air is an airline based in Johannesburg, South Africa.", " It operates charter flights both domestically and to destinations throughout Africa.", " Its main base is OR Tambo International Airport, Johannesburg." ] ], [ "British Airways franchise destinations", [ "British Airways flies to destinations on every inhabited continent.", " In addition to the comprehensive list of destinations offered by British Airways itself, many more towns and cities can be reached through BA's franchise and subsidiary operations.", " Together with wholly owned subsidiary BA CityFlyer, franchise carriers Sun Air and Comair operate aircraft in full British Airways livery, offer full BA service and staff wear BA uniform.", " Bookings are made through British Airways and the carriers are affiliate members of the oneworld alliance." ] ], [ "O. R. Tambo International Airport", [ "O. R. Tambo International Airport (IATA: JNB, ICAO: FAOR) (ORTIA) is a major international airport in Kempton Park, Ekurhuleni, Gauteng, South Africa, near the city of Johannesburg and, to a lesser extent, the executive capital Pretoria.", " It serves as the primary airport for domestic and international travel to/from South Africa and is Africa's busiest airport with a capacity to handle up to 28 million passengers annually with non-stop flights to all continents except Antarctica.", " The airport is the hub of South Africa's largest international and domestic carrier, South African Airways (SAA), and a number of smaller local airlines.", " The airport handled a total of over 20 million passengers in 2016." ] ], [ "Nationwide Airlines (South Africa)", [ "Nationwide Airlines was an airline based in Lanseria, South Africa.", " It operated scheduled domestic and international services.", " Its main base was OR Tambo International Airport, Johannesburg.", " On April 29, 2008 the Airline halted operations." ] ], [ "South African Airways", [ "South African Airways (SAA) is the flag carrier of South Africa.", " Its headquarters are in Airways Park on the grounds of OR Tambo International Airport in Kempton Park, Ekurhuleni, Gauteng.", " The airline flies to 56