certain actions. The rapporteur therefore recalls the European Parliament's previous demand that the "grey zone" between Community competence and expenditure - vis-à-vis Member States competence and expenditure - needs to be better clarified, remaining within the bounds of what is permissible under the Treaties. 2.2 The security dimension This dimension gains importance under the new financial perspective. For the sake of convenience, it can be divided into external and internal aspects. External aspects: energy security as an example 21. Recent events have reminded us that security of energy supply cannot be taken for granted. The European Union is extremely dependent on its external energy supplies, with imports currently accounting for 50% of its demand. This figure is projected to rise to 70% by 2030 if current trends persist. 77% of EU demand for oil and 51% of EU demand for gas is met from imports and there will be an increased demand from third countries that will compete for the energy resources required by EU Member States. At the same time, EU energy consumption is projected to grow by 22% in the period 1990 to 2020. 22. The EU is also facing environmental challenges like the Kyoto target of an 8% reduction in CO2 by 2010. Furthermore, rising energy prices have a direct and important impact on the consumer and on the competitiveness of the European economy. In view of these challenges, the relevance of nuclear power will have to be reassessed. Furthermore, the European Community has taken legislative action on a number of energy issues like security of electricity supply, the use of bio-fuels, the promotion of renewable energy sources, demand management measures, the improvement of energy efficiency and the liberalisation of energy markets. Yet, implementation of many of these measures by the Member States is not completed. The current energy programme 2003-2006 "Intelligent Energy for Europe" ) OJ L 176 of 15 July 2003, p. 29-37. aims at contributing to the pursuit of the 3 main objectives of European energy policy: security of supply, competitiveness and environmental protection. Internal aspects: border controls and immigration 23. European citizens need security in their everyday lives. The Commission's new approach to replace the multitude of instruments and budget lines in this field by three main framework programmes Freedom of movement and solidarity in the area of external borders, asylum and immigration programme COM(2005)0123 ; Security programme COM(2005)0124 ; Justice and fundamental rights programme COM(2005)0122 is certainly welcomed by the rapporteur, as it provides more consistency and transparency in this complex area. 24. Given the fact, however, that Council has more than halved the Commission's initial proposal for funding of the new heading 3 "Citizenship, freedom, security and justice" from EU 20,945 million to EUR 10,270 million, decisions will need to be taken on where the available resources should be concentrated in 2007. This decision will even be more important as it will lay the cornerstones for the future orientation of the Union's internal security. "Value for money" will be an important guiding principle for assessing the allocation of scarce resources in this field.