OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 338(1) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the European Commission, After transmission of the draft legislative act to the national parliaments, ▌ Acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure Position of the European Parliament of 1 December 2011. , Whereas: (1) Council Regulation (EC) No 1172/98 of 25 May 1998 on statistical returns in respect of the carriage of goods by road OJ L 163, 6.6.1998, p. 1. has been substantially amended several times ▌. Since further amendments are to be made, that Regulation should be recast in the interests of clarity. (2) In order to carry out the tasks entrusted to it in the context of the common transport policy, the Commission should have at its disposal comparable, reliable, synchronised, regular and comprehensive statistical data on the scale and development of the carriage of goods by road by means of vehicles registered in the Union, and on the degree of utilisation of vehicles carrying out this transport. (3) It is necessary to compile comprehensive regional statistics with regard to both the carriage of goods and vehicle journeys. (4) It is therefore appropriate to ensure that the regional origin and destination of transport within the Union is described on the same basis as national transport, and to provide a link between the carriage of goods and vehicle journeys by measuring the degree of utilisation of vehicles carrying out this transport. (5) In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the creation of common statistical standards allowing the production of harmonised information can be better achieved only at Union level, while data will be collected in each Member State under the authority of the bodies and institutions in charge of compiling official statistics. (6) Regulation (EC) No 223/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2009 on European statistics ▌ OJ L 87, 31.3.2009, p. 164. provides a reference framework for the provisions laid down by this Regulation, in particular those concerning access to the sources of administrative data, the cost-effectiveness of available resources and statistical confidentiality. (7) Communication of individual data, once rendered anonymous, is necessary in order to estimate the overall accuracy of the results. (8) It is important to ensure that statistical information is adequately disseminated. (9) In view of the specific geographical situation of Malta, its short-range road transport journeys, its limited road network and the disproportional burden that collecting such data would cause to the Maltese authorities, a derogation should be granted to Malta. ▌ (10) In order to take account of economic and technical developments, the power to adopt acts in accordance with Article 290 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be delegated to the Commission in respect of updating Part 1 of Annex I, except for any modifications to the optional nature of the required information, and adapting Annexes II to VII. It is of particular importance that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations during its