more than 7% shall be reserved for management costs by the consortium. Article 15 Changes in consortium membership 1. A consortium may modify its membership on its own initiative, and may in particular extend it to include any legal entity contributing to the implementation of the indirect action. A participant's withdrawal shall not affect access rights under Articles 26(2) and 27(2). The consortium must notify any change of its membership to the Commission, which may object within six weeks of the notification. New participants shall accede to the contract according to the terms of Article 12(2). 2. The joint programme of activities for a network of excellence or the implementation plan for an integrated project shall specify which changes in the membership of the consortium shall require the prior publication of a call for applications . The consortium shall publish the call for applications and advertise it widely using specific information support, particularly Internet sites on the sixth framework programme, the specialist press and brochures , and the national contact points set up by the Member States and Associated States for information and support . The consortium shall evaluate applications in the light of the criteria which governed the evaluation and selection of the indirect action, defined according to the terms of Article 10 (4) and (5) , and with the assistance of independent experts appointed by the consortium on the basis of the criteria described in Article 11(2)(b). The subsequent modification of the consortium shall follow the procedure established in the third subparagraph of paragraph 1. Article 16 Additional financial contribution The Commission may increase the Community financial contribution to an indirect action already under way in order to expand its scope to cover new activities which may involve new participants. It shall do so in the case of the indirect actions referred to in Article 9(1) and (2)(c) by way of a call for supplementary proposals, which the Commission shall publish and advertise in accordance with Article 9(4) and which may be restricted, if necessary, to indirect actions already under way. The Commission shall evaluate and select such proposals in accordance with Article 10. Article 17 Consortium activities in favour of third parties If the contract provides for the consortium to undertake all or part of its activities in favour of third parties, the consortium shall ensure that this is properly made public, in accordance where applicable with the contract. The consortium shall evaluate and select any application received from third parties in accordance with the principles of transparency, fairness and impartiality and also with the terms stipulated in the contract. Article 18 Scientific , technological and financial monitoring and audits 1. The indirect actions to which the Community contributes shall be periodically evaluated by the Commission on the basis of progress reports which shall also cover the implementation of the plan for the use or dissemination of knowledge submitted by the participants in accordance with the terms of the contract. In monitoring the networks of excellence, the integrated projects and, where necessary, other indirect actions, the Commission shall be