authorities to promote volunteering through education at all levels, including degree programmes, so that learning during volunteering is recognized as part of lifelong learning. Making life easier for voluntary bodies The report encourages Member States, regional and local authorities and voluntary organisations to develop plans to recognise, value, support, facilitate and encourage volunteering, and to work in partnership to do so. It also urges Member States, regional and local authorities to help voluntary bodies to access sufficient and sustainable funding, without excessive form-filling, red tape or bureaucracy, while maintaining controls on public expenditure. The European Commission is asked to put in place a Plan V for Valuing, Validating and ensuring Visibility of Volunteers, to mainstream "volunteer-friendliness" across all areas of policy and legislation, and to investigate the introduction of a legal basis in Community law whereby voluntary organisations would be exempted from paying VAT on purchases. Promoting volunteering The report encourages Member States to promote volunteering within all communities, both real and virtual, e.g. family volunteering, or volunteering in marginalised groups or groups that might not traditionally volunteer. It also asks the Commission to review its visa policy for non-EU participants in recognised EU volunteer programmes with a view to introducing a more liberal visa regime in particular towards volunteers from EU neighbouring countries. Finally, the report calls on local and regional stakeholders, voluntary organisations and the media to inform citizens about opportunities to volunteer. Rapporteur Marian HARKIN ALDE IE A6-0070/2008 Role of volunteering in contributing to economic and social cohesion Procedure : own-initiative Debate : 21.04.2008 European Volunteer Centre EN 1 REF-DOC /oeil/file.jsp?id=5498492 EN 2 LINK http://www.cev.be/ -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 BRI-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 BRI-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080410BRI26349 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080410BRI26349 ITEM-017-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20080410BRI26349 ITEM-019-EN DOC XML V0//EN Environment Market-based instruments for the environment 2008-04-17 - 09:46 The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety is proposing an own- initiative report by Anne FERREIRA (PES, FR), on the Green Paper on market-based instruments for environment and related policy purposes. MEPs in the committee welcome the Green Paper but regret the absence of an in-depth analysis on the merits of differentiation between market-based instruments (MBIs) targeted at the consumer as opposed to the producer level. They also criticise the fact that the Green Paper concentrates mainly on atmospheric pollution and global warming, and by and large disregards the other negative impacts of production and distribution processes and consumption patterns on the environment. The Commission is urged to develop a clear strategy on the use of MBIs to price environmental damage and correct related market failures. This strategy should cover taxation, the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS) review, trade, and technology policy. The report recognises that MBIs constitute important tools for implementing the ‘polluter pays’ principle, and that they are one of the most effective ways of achieving environmental objectives at reasonable cost. MEPs stress, however, that these instruments cannot be a substitute for environmental legislation, which lays down targets to be achieved and standards to be