US and EU together account for almost 40% of global trade and almost 50% of global GDP and recommends an enhanced macro-prudential dialogue, with a focus on the Atlantic dialogue, thorough and even-handed implementation of the Basel III package and further discussions on widening the scope of supervision to non-bank financial institutions; calls for continued momentum behind reform of financial sector regulation to ensure that finance effectively supports stability and growth in the real global economy; 51. Respects the approach of the G20, WTO, Basel III and other multinational bodies whilst recognising the potential perils of over-regulation and regulatory competition; 52. Welcomes the establishment of the Global Economy Meeting of central bank governors under the auspices of the Bank for International Settlements (BIS), as a reference group for the organisation of cooperation among central banks; 53. Is concerned about the risk of fragmentation as a result of the variety of regulations affecting the activities of global financial players; calls, therefore, for a greater degree of integration between the mechanisms put in place in different sectors; 54. Recognises the role of the EIB in fostering growth through long-term investment; 55. Stresses the need to develop adequate criteria for identifying systemically important financial institutions, with the aim of avoiding ‘too big or too interconnected to fail’ institutions, and therefore to reduce systemic risk through the use of additional reserve and capital requirements as well as antitrust laws; 56. Calls on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to propose measures to ring-fence the retail banking activities of systemically important institutions and require them to be capitalised on a standalone basis; 57. Urges the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to develop a standard model approach for calculating risk-weighted assets (RWAs) in order to accurately assess and compare banks' exposures to credit and market risks; 58. Recommends the development of a suitable international infrastructure under the aegis of the IMF offering authorities and industry alike a unique source for standardised basic financial data as a technical enabler for international prudential tasks and safer and more efficient industry processes alike; Reconfiguration of the international monetary system Role and challenges of the EU 59. Stresses the positive effects of a stronger economic governance framework in the EU and the euro area for global cooperation and coordination; 60. Notes the great importance of strengthening and deepening the European Single Market not only as an internal objective but also as a leading example for other trading blocs around the world; 61. Stresses the need for EU policies both in the agricultural and financial fields that help to avoid global shocks in the food supply and prices; 62. Stresses the positive effects of a stronger economic governance framework reinforcing the Stability and Growth Pact in the EU and the euro area for global cooperation and coordination; 63. States that the EU should play an active role in reshaping the international monetary and financial system via more powerful external representation based on more efficient and transparent internal decision-making in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Lisbon Treaty; 64. Welcomes the creation of