such guidelines being the right to privacy, free and informed consent, the limits set on non-therapeutic human enhancement, whilst offering encouragement to this promising interdisciplinary domain with breakthrough technologies such as molecular imaging and diagnostics, which can offer impressive benefits for the early diagnosis and smart and cost-effective treatment of many diseases; asks the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies to draw up an opinion on this issue, building on its Opinion No 21 of 17 January 2007 on "Ethical aspects of nanomedicine" and drawing on the ethical opinion issued by EU national ethics bodies as well as the work undertaken by international organisations such as UNESCO; 36. Calls on the Commission and Member States to pay special attention to the social dimension of the development of nanotechnology, including to the accompanying social science research; underlines the fact that nanotechnology should be judged in terms of its usefulness and its effect on humans and the environment; furthermore considers that the active participation of the social partners concerned has to be ensured from the earliest possible stage. 37. Considers that regulatory action on nanomaterials should also assess possibilities to address nanomaterials that are created as unintended by-products of combustion processes in a cost-effective manner, given that Community legislation on air quality does not yet cover the emission of very fine particles (of under 2,5µm) into ambient air, and given the very high number of air pollution-related deaths every year; 38. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission, and the governments and parliaments of the Member States. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Nanotechnology is the art of engineering at a new level, where fantastic results can be achieved in energy, manufacturing, consumer products and other sectors. Biomedicine with sensors implanted in the body and medicine which penetrates blood-brain barriers can be developed. Nano-generators can exploit the environment or body movement to create energy. Energy-efficient windows, more durable fishing rods, sun creams with high sun protection factors, crash-resistant bodywork, sensors for various environmental toxins, sterile surfaces etc., the list of what already exists on the market or may do within the near future is endless. But all these dreams may turn to ashes unless we ensure that products are safe before they appear on the market; the old REACH motto, 'no data, no market', springs to mind. Nanotechnology entails new toxicological risks which are vaguely defined and difficult to test, a field in which our knowledge about immune defence response - if it is able to react at all in any given situation - is poor. Carbon nanotubes have proved to give rise to exactly the same type of damage as asbestos, carbon nanoclusters in low concentrations have caused brain damage in fish and sterilising nano silver from socks has leaked into waste water with unknown risks to treatment plants. When we know that nanoparticles are capable of penetrating the blood-brain barrier, how can we allow sun creams on to the market when we cannot guarantee that they have been tested to explore the possible differences in behaviour they may