reaching an agreement with Council Amendment 39 Annex II, Subtitle "Special provisions concerning the Risk-Sharing Finance Facility (RSFF)", paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 The Seventh Framework Programme will contribute an amount of up to EUR 1 billion to the RSFF which is to be matched by an equivalent amount from the EIB. It will come from the "Cooperation" programme (up to EUR 800 million by proportional contribution of all thematic priorities, except socio‑economic sciences and humanities) and the "Capacities" programme (up to EUR 200 million from the research infrastructure line). The Seventh Framework Programme will contribute an amount of up to EUR 500 million to the RSFF until 2010 . For the period 2010-2013, there will be the possibility to release up to an additional EUR 500 million following the evaluation of the Council and the European Parliament under the procedure described in Article 7(2) on the basis of a report by the Commission containing information on the participation of SMEs and universities, the fulfilment of the FP7 selection criteria, the kind of projects supported and the demand for the instrument concerned, the duration of the authorisation procedure, the project results, and the funding distribution. The amount made available out of the Seventh Framework Programme is to be matched by an equivalent amount from the EIB. It will come from the "Cooperation" programme (up to EUR 800 million by proportional contribution of all thematic priorities, except socio‑economic sciences and humanities) and the "Capacities" programme (up to EUR 200 million from the research infrastructure line). The amount will be made available progressively to the EIB taking account of the level of demand. The amount will be made available progressively to the EIB taking account of the level of demand. In order to ensure a rapid launch with a critical mass of resources, an amount in the order of EUR 500 million will be progressively allocated in the budget for a period up to the interim evaluation of the Seventh Framework Programme, referred to in Article 7(2) of this Decision. The results of the interim evaluation will be taken into account when allocating the amount for the remainder of the period. In order to ensure a rapid launch with a critical mass of resources, an amount in the order of EUR 500 million will be progressively allocated in the budget for a period up to the interim evaluation of the Seventh Framework Programme, referred to in Article 7(2) of this Decision. Justification Amendment tabled with a view to reaching an agreement with Council Amendment 40 Annex III, Subtitle "Indirect Actions", paragraph 4, point (a), point (1) Support for research projects carried out by consortia with participants from different countries, aiming at developing new knowledge, new technology, products, demonstration activities or common resources for research. The size, scope and internal organisation of projects can vary from field to field and from topic to topic. Projects can range from small or medium-scale focused research actions to large‑scale integrating projects for achieving a defined objective. Projects may also be targeted to special groups such as SMEs. Support