Question for written answer E-000437/2012 to the Commission Rule 117 Silvia-Adriana Ţicău (S&D) (23 January 2012) Subject: Nuclear power plant stress tests In the aftermath of the Fukushima accident, the EU decided to have stress tests carried out at all 143 nuclear power plants in the Union, starting on 1 June 2011. In March 2011 the European Council approved the Commission’s initiative launching a process involving a full assessment throughout the EU of risks and safety at the nuclear power plants. This initiative also received the backing of Parliament in a debate held on 6 April 2011, with the EP calling for the definition of common and detailed evaluation criteria. All 14 Member States which have operative nuclear power plants, plus Lithuania, are taking part in the stress test exercise at those plants. Switzerland and Ukraine have, for their part, agreed to participate in this exercise as countries bordering on the EU. A number of countries have decided, in addition to the agreed requirements, to include not only operative nuclear power plants but also decommissioned plants or other nuclear installations. The Commission has requested that the stress tests should include specific assessments in three main areas: extreme natural events (earthquakes, flooding, extreme weather conditions); response of the installations to prolonged power failures and/or loss of the ultimate heat sink (irrespective of the cause); and severe accident management. The investigation methods are defined nationally and fall under the responsibility of the specific national regulators. According to the timetable set by the Commission, the process for evaluating the resilience of the nuclear power plants in the EU should be completed by April 2012, so that the results of the peer reviews can be presented in a final report at the European Council meeting of 28-29 June 2012. Can the Commission state when it will inform Parliament of the results contained in the final report on the nuclear power plant stress tests and the measures proposed as a result of the evaluations carried out?