Answer given by Ms. Hedegaard on behalf of the Commission (29 November 2010) The European Commission is responsible for the EU Emission Trading System (the ‘EU ETS’). Directive 2003/87/EC Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC (Text with EEA relevance), OJ L 275, 25.10.2003. establishing the EU ETS, as most recently revised, gives the European Commission the task of monitoring and ensuring the proper functioning of the allowance market. National competition authorities and the European Commission (DG Competition) are responsible for investigating and sanctioning illegal practices, such as cartelisation, prohibited under Treaty competition rules. On the other hand, in accordance with Union financial markets legislation, national financial market supervisory authorities are responsible for enforcement in the case of market manipulation and insider dealing relating to derivatives of EU allowances that qualify as financial instruments under Article 1(3) of the Market Abuse Directive Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on insider dealing and market manipulation (market abuse), OJ L 96, 12.4.2003. . The Auctioning Regulation Commission Regulation on the timing, administration and other aspects of auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances pursuant to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and the Council establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community. Not yet published in the Official Journal. will also contain provisions to address the integrity of auctions of allowances valid for surrendering as from the third trading period(and as from 2012 as regards aviation allowances). The Commission is preparing a Communication to the European Parliament and to the Council (adoption is envisaged by end of 2010 or early in 2011) that will set out the current structure of the European allowance market and the level of market oversight. It will also describe how the Commission's adopted and forthcoming legislative proposals, in the field of financial markets and energy markets, would change the situation if adopted as proposed by the Commission. In 2011, the Commission will carry out an in-depth study to inform its future policy direction on carbon market oversight. The Commission will make a legislative proposal if it believes this is necessary to enhance the level of oversight of the European carbon market.