a regulation Article 28 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Shareholders shall have the right to be duly informed and to ask questions to the management body about resolutions, annual accounts and all other matters relating to the activities of the SPE. 1. Shareholders shall have the right to be duly informed and to ask questions to the executive management body about resolutions, annual accounts and all other matters relating to the activities of the SPE. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 4 7 Proposal for a regulation Article 28 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. The management body may refuse to give access to the information only if doing so could cause serious harm to the business interests of the SPE. 2. The executive management body may refuse to give access to the information only if doing so could cause serious harm to the business interests of the SPE. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 4 8 Proposal for a regulation Article 29 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Shareholders holding 5% of the voting rights attached to the shares of the SPE shall have the right to request the management body to submit a proposal for a resolution to the shareholders. 1. Shareholders holding 5% of the voting rights attached to the shares of the SPE shall have the right to request the executive management body to submit a proposal for a resolution to the shareholders. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 49 Proposal for a regulation Article 29 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment If the request is refused or if the management body does not submit a proposal within 14 calendar days of receiving the request, the shareholders concerned may then submit a proposal for a resolution to the shareholders regarding the matters in question. If the request is refused or if the executive management body does not submit a proposal within 14 calendar days of receiving the request, the shareholders concerned may then submit a proposal for a resolution to the shareholders regarding the matters in question. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 5 Proposal for a regulation Article 29 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The expert shall be allowed access to the documents and records of the SPE and to require information from the management body. The expert shall be allowed access to the documents and records of the SPE and to require information from the executive management body. Justification See Amendment 2. Amendment 5 1 Proposal for a regulation Article 31 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. A director of the SPE shall be liable to the company for any act or omission in breach of his duties deriving from this Regulation, the articles of association of the SPE or a resolution of shareholders which causes loss or damage to the SPE. Where such breach has been committed by more than one director, all directors concerned shall be jointly and