Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (27 October 2010) The European Union, through the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, supports Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia with a number of projects to comply with the political, economic and acquis-related criteria of the accession process. For the projects ‘Construction of the sewage collectors in the municipality of Zivinice’ in Bosnia and Herzegovina (SCR.CTR.217216.01.1) and ‘Industrial park infrastructure in the municipality of Vrsac’ in Serbia (SCR.CTR.209601.01.1) the firm STRABAG has been selected as contractor in line with the ‘Practical guide to contract procedures for EU external actions’. A total amount of EUR 3.97 million has been allocated to the implementation of those projects. The purpose of the project ‘Construction of the sewage collectors in the municipality of Zivinice’ — Bosnia and Herzegovina (SCR.CTR.217216.01.1) is the construction of four sewage collectors for a total length of 11 km which enables the collection of wastewater from neighbouring urban and suburban areas. The project further provides for the connection of the existing secondary sewage network to the constructed collectors. In addition, the project provides for discharge of the collected wastewater into the wastewater treatment plant which is constructed under a separate contract. The total amount of the project is EUR 1.29 million. So far, the European Union Delegation to Bosnia and Herzegovina paid EUR 832 716 for the works carried out. The activities started on 1 October 2009 and the planned final date is 1 January 2012. More than 95 % of the construction of four sewage collectors is already completed. The purpose of the project ‘Industrial park infrastructure in the municipality of Vrsac’ — Serbia (SCR.CTR 209601.01.1) is to support business development space in the municipality of Vrsac for both domestic and foreign investors. The Technology Park is expected to provide the distinct advantages of economies of scale as well as locating and concentrating highly skilled and qualified personnel in close proximity supported by a modern and efficient technological environment. The total amount of the project is EUR 2.68 million. So far the European Union Delegation to Serbia paid EUR 1.3 million for the works carried out. The activities started on 15 July 2009 and the planned final date is 14 January 2011. The executed works to date include sewerage system works, storm water drainage system, water supply pipelines, internal road network and landscaping. The effectiveness of both projects is assessed through a number of different tools. First, works contract management ensure that any payment is made on the basis of works performed in line with the technical specifications. The progress is verified through the supervisors’ statements, contractor’s reports and technical assistance monitoring reports. Second, separate EU contracted technical assistance is responsible for monitoring the project implementation. Based on their reports, the respective EU Delegation processes payments. Third, the Regional Office Monitoring (ROM) team, contracted by Directorate-General for Enlargement, conducts regular monitoring visits and reports with particular attention to the project efficiency, effectiveness and impact.