as witnesses in court proceedings and/or their relatives who have remained in their countries of origin are often subject to intimidation or even reprisals by the perpetrators of the offences in question. Member States must therefore protect the privacy of persons taking part in court proceedings and must guarantee that those proceedings take place in camera . The aim of the directive is to introduce a short-term residence permit for those victims of trafficking in human beings or actions to facilitate illegal immigration who cooperate with the authorities. The ultimate objective is to ensure that the perpetrators of such offences are arrested and that there is no further increase in the frequency with which such crimes are committed. Your draftswoman takes the view that the residence permit in itself provides a sufficient incentive to cooperate with the competent authorities. The third-country nationals in question are not only provided with the necessities of life and the medical treatment - including psychological counselling - they may urgently require. In addition, such persons are to be granted access to existing programmes or measures designed to prepare them for a normal life in society or for their return to their country of origin. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities calls on the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs. the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Council text Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 1 (new) (1) The overwhelming majority of the victims are women. Well over half the victims of trafficking in human beings are aged below 25 and three quarters are aged below 30. In addition, more than half the registered victims of trafficking in human beings are exploited as prostitutes. Amendment 2 Recital 2 (new) (2) More than half the victims rescued come from Central and Eastern Europe. In view of the geographical closeness of and its cultural links with that region, and looking ahead to enlargement, the EU has a particular responsibility towards such victims. Amendment 3 Recital 3 (new) (3) With a view to enabling victims to overcome their dependence and ensuring that they do not re-establish contact with the criminal network responsible for their plight, Member States may arrange for victims who have been issued with such a residence permit to take part in programmes to foster their integration into society or to prepare them for a return to their home countries. Justification The proposal for a directive provides for the issuing of residence permits to the victims of trafficking in human beings or of actions to promote illegal immigration - a sufficient incentive to cooperate with the competent authorities. Amendment 4 Article 8, paragraph 1 (1) Member States shall ensure that the third-country nationals concerned are granted a reflection period allowing them to recover and escape the influence of the perpetrators of the offences so that they can take an informed decision as to whether to cooperate with the competent authorities. (1) Member States shall ensure that the third-country nationals concerned are granted a