focus on objectives that monetary policy cannot effectively achieve or to accommodate the undesirable side-effects of other policies on financial and product markets. Moreover, in a monetary union, independence also shields the central bank from national pressures in its conduct of the single monetary policy which aims at ensuring price stability in the euro area as a whole. In all these cases, interference would undermine the central bank’s medium-term orientation and its ability to maintain long-term price stability. For all these reasons and because the empirical evidence clearly shows that there is a positive correlation between the degree of central bank independence and the effectiveness of monetary policy in securing low inflation, the ECB’s independence was enshrined in the Treaty. The European Parliament, in particular, has advocated and supported the independence of the ECB. Like all other members of the decision-making bodies of the ECB, I am committed to act in accordance with this important principle. Independence does not imply that the ECB is not accountable for its policy decisions. On the contrary, transparency about policy actions and accountability for its performance to the European citizens and their representatives in the European Parliament are necessary both for enhancing the effectiveness of monetary policy and for legitimising the ECB’s independence. Moreover, a fruitful dialogue between the ECB and all relevant economic policy-making bodies and institutions of the Union (e.g. the Commission and the Eurogroup) is also essential. An exchange of views and information between the ECB and other policy-making bodies about the economic situation and prospects and a better understanding of the fiscal and structural policies to be pursued in the Union provide useful input for monetary policy decisions. Transparency about policy decisions is a vital ingredient of monetary policy-making. By explaining and justifying policy decisions so that they are clearly understood by the public and the financial markets, we can influence the expectations of economic agents in a way which facilitates the transmission of policy effects and the attainment of policy goals. On the whole the ECB communicates actively and extensively, through a variety of channels, with the aim to ensure a high degree of transparency about its policies. It provides ample information for the assessment of its performance by the European public. Its accountability to the European Parliament involves not only presentation of various reports but also a continuous and active dialogue between this Committee, the President of the ECB and other members of the Board. I believe it is important to enhance this constructive dialogue. Since its establishment the ECB has achieved a high degree of price stability in the euro area. This was accomplished in an environment marked by large supply shocks and high volatility in foreign exchange and financial markets. More recently, the ECB has succeeded in managing and coordinating the smooth changeover to the euro, a historically unique and complex undertaking. These achievements make us confident that the ECB will continue to meet its objectives and perform its tasks efficiently in the future. In my new capacity I intend to use my professional experience and devote all