about the potential liabilities of the Society ... " and that the information thus received " made clear that very substantial claims were involved " (WE 16 Page 744. ). However, Lord Penrose emphasises that he " cannot adjudicate on the policyholders' complaints " and states that " the expectation that many have expressed that this report will provide views on the validity of claims and their value will inevitably be disappointed " (WE 16 Foreword. ). Nevertheless, Lord Penrose was keen to point out that the human impact of the events at Equitable should not be understated and that "... damage [was] done not only to policyholders' financial resources but to their self-esteem and their confidence in their ability to manage their affairs " (WE 16 Page 285. ). He concludes that " with few exceptions, those who have suffered have been the innocent victims of this affair " (WE 16) Page 745. . In conclusion, neither the Baird and Penrose reports nor any of the other official investigations E.g. 'The Corley Report' (WE 50) or UK Parliamentary Ombudsman's first report ("The prudential regulation of Equitable Life; 4th Report-Session 2002-2003). resulted in remedy for policyholders. Expressing the frustration of policyholders, EMAG complains in WE 44 that " report after report has been published but none had the remit to address culpability or authorise compensation ". IV. Actions by ELAS in relation to aggrieved policyholders This section examines actions undertaken by Equitable Life in response to the crisis and whether these have served to bring relief to policyholders. 1. Litigation Firstly, Equitable considered pursuing legal action through UK or European Courts against the UK Regulator. " We took legal advice as to whether the Society should be pursuing what had gone wrong with the European Courts ... but were clear from the advice that we received that there was no route open. ... We were also clear that there was no realistic prospect of successfully suing the UK regulator " (Mr THOMSON (H2). ELAS provided the advice it received from leading Counsel as WE 71. The document considers potential claims by the Society and/or policyholders against both the prudential regulators and conduct of business regulators. The law firm indicates that " we do not consider that legal action by the Society against the regulators would be cost-effective " and therefore advised the Society " not to proceed with such an action ." As to the funding by the Society of claims by policyholders, they " identified ... difficulties of bringing such claims and concerns as to whether the Society can or ought to fund such claims " and concluded that " it is difficult to see how such a course could be justified " (WE 71). By contrast, " following consideration of the legal, audit and actuarial advice that [it] received and with very strong backing from policyholders and from action groups ", the Society proceeded to pursue its former directors and its former auditors for alleged breaches of duty " culminating in court proceedings [in 2005] " (Mr THOMSON, H2). The