in Dublin that the IOI refused to deal with their complaint, stating that it 'would only cover Irish insurance providers that were members of the scheme'. However, the policyholders were not able to substantiate their statements by written evidence in response to a request by the committee and they rather appear to have misperceived the reasons for the IOI to reject their complaint. Ms O’Dea (H4) said that the Department of Enterprise, Trade & Employment, financial regulator at the time, referred complainants about Equitable Life to the IOI. According to WE 68, the IOI received a total of 79 complaints related to Equitable Life. The committee asked Mr MEADE “ on which basis the IOI determine[d] whether to treat a complaint (submitted by Irish ELAS policyholders) itself or otherwise refer it to the FOS ” He replied that “ when a complaint was received it was assessed as to whether it could be investigated by the Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland Scheme (IOI) or whether it was appropriate for the FOS. ... Where a complaint was more appropriate to the Financial Ombudsman Service of the UK, the complainant was advised that he should contact that office and was given the necessary details ” (WE 68). Later, Mr MEADE specified that " where a policy was sold in the UK to a policyholder, that was the responsibility of the Financial Ombudsman Service in the UK " whereas " a complaint regarding a policy sold in Ireland ... was decided on by the IOI ". According to WE 68, of the 79 cases received “ 14 ... were referred either to the Financial Ombudsman Service in the UK or to the Insurance Federation of Ireland ”. However, Mr MEADE pointed out that, once a complainant was advised to take the matter to the FOS, “ it was up to that organisation to deal with the complaint or not ”. Mr MEADE stated that “ it is quite possible that some complainants were neither treated by the Irish, nor by the UK Ombudsman, particularly if the complaint fell inside the Court Scheme of Arrangement ”. He stated furthermore that he is “ not aware of compensation awards, if any, made in individual cases by the [ UK ] FOS " (see WE 68). Evidence submitted by Ms KNOWD in WE-CONF 28 and in H2 illustrates that there had been some confusion among policyholders, ombudsmen and ELAS about whether the IOI and FOS should deal with certain complaints. Ms KNOWD who indicates in WE 33 that she had purchased her policy from ELAS Dublin branch claimed that her complaint to the Irish Ombudsman was “ rejected on the basis of being outside her jurisdiction ” (H2). This contrasts with Mr MEADE's statement above, who declared that the IOI would have dealt with complaints about ELAS policies sold in Ireland. Furthermore, it appears that when the IOI rejected her complaint it did not refer her to the FOS There is no indication in WE-FILE 33 (responses to questionnaire) that the IOI referred to the FOS any complainant who