Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (3 April 2009) The Commission has no information on the application of EC directives in specific economic sectors. At EU level, no study has been undertaken or is in preparation concerning the application of EC directives on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment between women and men and other EC directives dealing with the reconciliation of work and family life. In principle, the Member States are responsible for ensuring the correct and effective transposition of Community legislation into their national legal orders and its implementation. As the guardian of the Treaties, the Commission closely monitors the implementation of Community law at national level and takes the measures necessary under the EC Treaty where Member States are found to be in breach of Community law. Nevertheless, once such transposition has been effected correctly, it is in principle for the individual to initiate legal proceedings provided for under national law and to take any offences to the national courts. Verification of the application of directives in individual cases is in principle the task of the competent national courts. The Commission recognises that a good balance between work and family life is very important, and would expect, in the context of corporate social responsibility (CSR), that companies would pay serious attention to this issue. The Commission also recognises that it is a challenge for holding companies — and all the more so for certification authorities — to be aware of every possible failing in employment conditions within their often many subsidiaries. One of the roles of a trade union is to point out cases where standards expected in employment conditions are not met, which is what seems to have happened in this case. In the Commission's experience, companies are very sensitive to criticism on these issues, and corrections can occur through self-regulation. The Commission, for its part, follows closely the activities of various international bodies dealing with CSR, and views their work as a means of leveraging greater take-up of CSR by European companies.