Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (2 October 2008) The Commission examined whether the construction measures mentioned in the complaint constitute ‘a change or extension of a project listed in Annex I or Annex II, already authorised […], which may have significant adverse effects on the environment’ pursuant to Annex II of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Directive Council Directive 85/337/EEC of 27 June 1985 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, OJ L 175, 5.7.1985 . . They reached the conclusion that this is not the case for the construction measures mentioned in the complaint. The Commission explained to the complainant the reasons why several of the construction measures did not constitute a project concerning an airport. The Commission services noted also that the German authorities had carried out an EIA screening for the construction of a certain runway. The Commission services held that infringement proceedings against Germany for an alleged infringement of the EIA Directive by certain construction measures at Düsseldorf Airport would not offer sufficient prospects of success. The Commission does in view of the fact that the binding interpretation of Community law is the privilege of the Community courts not wish to comment on the hypothetical legal issues raised by the Honourable Member. It notes, however, that several of the questions seem to be based on incorrect factual understanding of the contents of the complaint and of the reply of the Commission. The complainant did for instance not provide the Commission with a detailed additional report setting out the environmental impact of the airport expansion which was the subject matter of the complaint. Regarding Vienna airport, development consent for various construction measures had been given before an EIA was carried out. Austria will therefore deliver an ex-post EIA assessing possible adverse environmental effects of the airport extension retrospectively, thus opening the possibility to remedy the failure of not having carried out an EIA.