ORAL QUESTION WITH DEBATE O-0062/07 pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure by Anna Záborská , Amalia Sartori and Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou , on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Roberta Angelilli , on behalf of the UEN Group, Zita Gurmai , on behalf of the PSE Group, Adamos Adamou , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Hiltrud Breyer and Raül Romeva i Rueda , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Elizabeth Lynne , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Kathy Sinnott , on behalf of the IND/DEM Group to the Commission Subject: European strategy for the rights of the child: against 'dys'crimination of children and exclusion of 'dys' people More than 10% of children are affected by 'dys' problems (dysphasia, dyspraxia, dyslexia, dyscalculia or attention deficit disorder, etc). But this type of 'dys' handicap, which badly impairs communication from a very early age, goes unidentified in a number of Member States. The only way to prevent resultant 'dys'crimination against affected children is to give them special, early, intensive, which is intensive, multidisciplinary treatment in appropriate structures (preferably in a mainstream school environment with appropriate special care). Does the Commission have accurate statistics on 'dys' problems? If not, could it collect them? Does the Commission plan to undertake initiatives favouring the identification and the acknowledgement of 'dys' problems as disabilities or as learning difficulties? Can the Commission facilitate access to information, and make timely steps to spot, screen and systematically diagnose and treat disorders at an early stage? Aside from the Neurodys project, can the Commission finance other lines of research on other 'dys' problems, or does it envisage doing so in the future? What measures could Member States promote for people who informally care for, on a daily basis, disabled people with a 'dys' problem to avoid all forms of socio-professional discrimination to allow them to reconcile family and professional life and to have their work as a 'carer' recognised? Does the Commission have initiatives in place to ensure that EU-funded educational programmes (TIC, e-learning, lifelong learning) are designed and implemented with adequate consideration for 'dys' people? How can the Commission ensure that the employment Directive is implemented effectively to ensure that there is no discrimination against 'dys' workers, whilst encouraging Member States to help improve the employability of 'dys' workers? Does the Commission feel that it is useful to create a network in order to promote an exchange of best practice at European level and to establish a charter for 'dys' children? How could the Commission promote and encourage the creation of a European multidisciplinary network on specific learning disabilities and by this means, to collect and study information and promote the coordination of cross-border actions, as well as institutional dialogue?