Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (25 February 2008) The Commission is indeed well aware of and very concerned by the expulsion of missionaries from Eritrea and more generally by the continued restriction by the Eritrean Government of civil and political liberties including increasingly severe limitations on freedom of association, expression and worship. At every possible opportunity the Commission has raised its concerns with the authorities of Eritrea, including with regard to the expulsion of missionaries. In November 2007, the President of the Commission met the newly appointed Ambassador of Eritrea to the EU, and conveyed the concerns of the Commission with respect to the Human Rights situation prevailing in Eritrea in general and the fate of religious leaders and worshippers in particular. The Member of the Commission responsible for Development and Humanitarian Aid, in charge of the relations with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, met President Isaias three times in 2007 and on each occasion let him know that the Commission views Eritrea as errant. In the context of the EU‑AU Summit in Lisbon in December 2007, the Member of the Commission raised again the deep concern of the EU regarding the human rights situation in the country. The Government of the State of Eritrea was urged to comply with its international human rights obligations and to convene a dialogue on human rights with the EU as soon as possible. The Cotonou Agreement provides for political dialogue under Article 8. Through this dialogue the fulfilment of Eritrea contractual agreements will be addressed and followed-up. Development cooperation opens the space in which dialogue is possible including on issues such as human rights. The Commission is determined to pursue a firm dialogue with the Eritrean authorities as a means to engage them in order to improve the human rights situation in the country. The EU does not consider it appropriate to open the procedures foreseen under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement with Eritrea with a view to suspend aid. This would not only disable any possibility to continue the dialogue on human rights, but would also deprive the people of Eritrea of badly needed financial assistance to address the very pressing poverty-related problems the population is facing. The Commission is nevertheless of the view that Eritrea must urgently improve its poor track record in terms of human rights and for this continued and reinforced political engagement of the EU is needed. In 2006 and 2007, the Commission disbursed in projects and programmes implemented in Eritrea respectively around EUR 9 million and EUR 19.6 million. Furthermore the EU has allocated EUR 122 million for Eritrea in the context of the Cotonou Agreement under the 10th European Development Fund (EDF) for the period 2008‑13. These funds will serve the long term development of Eritrea within the framework of principles and provisions laid down in the Cotonou Agreement on the ACP/EU partnership.