rule on the admissibility of amendments, on questions to the Council and Commission, and on the conformity of reports with these Rules; to ensure observance of these Rules, maintain order, call upon speakers, close debates, put matters to the vote and announce the results of votes; and to refer to committees any communications that concern them. 3. The President may speak in a debate only to sum up or to call speakers to order. Should he wish to take part in a debate, he shall vacate the Chair and shall not reoccupy it until the debate is over. 4. Parliament shall be represented in international relations, on ceremonial occasions and in administrative, legal or financial matters by the President, who may delegate these powers. Rule 20 Duties of the Vice-Presidents 1. Should the President be absent or unable to discharge his duties, or should he wish to take part in a debate pursuant to Rule 19(3), he shall be replaced by one of the Vice-Presidents pursuant to Rule 14(2). 2. The Vice-Presidents shall also carry out the duties conferred upon them under Rules 22, 24(3) and 64(3). 3. The President may delegate to the Vice-Presidents any duties such as representing Parliament at specific ceremonies or acts. In particular, the President may designate a Vice-President to take charge of the responsibilities conferred on the President in Rules 109(3) and 110(2). Rule 21 Composition of the Bureau 1. The Bureau shall consist of the President and the fourteen Vice-Presidents of Parliament. 2. The Quaestors shall be members of the Bureau in an advisory capacity. 3. Should voting in the Bureau result in a tie, the President shall have a casting vote. Rule 22 Duties of the Bureau 1. The Bureau shall carry out the duties assigned to it under the Rules of Procedure. 2. The Bureau shall take financial, organisational and administrative decisions on matters concerning Members and the internal organisation of Parliament, its Secretariat and its bodies. 3. The Bureau shall take decisions on matters relating to the conduct of sittings. The term 'conduct of sittings' includes the matter of the conduct of Members within all of Parliament's premises. 4. The Bureau shall adopt the provisions referred to in Rule 31 concerning Non-attached Members. 5. The Bureau shall decide the establishment plan of the Secretariat and lay down regulations relating to the administrative and financial situation of officials and other servants. 6. The Bureau shall draw up Parliament's preliminary draft estimates. 7. The Bureau shall adopt the guidelines for the Quaestors pursuant to Rule 25. 8. The Bureau shall be the authority responsible for authorising meetings of committees away from the usual places of work, hearings and study and fact-finding journeys by rapporteurs. Where such meetings are authorised, the language arrangements shall be determined on the basis of the official languages used and requested by the members and substitutes of the committee concerned. The same shall apply in the case of the delegations, except where the members and substitutes concerned agree otherwise. 9. The Bureau shall appoint the Secretary-General pursuant to Rule 197.