2 September 2002 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION with request for inclusion in the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 50(1) of the Rules of Procedure by Matti Wuori, Alima Boumediene-Thiery and Yves Piétrasanta on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group on the case of Saad Eddin Ibrahim Resolution on the case of Saad Eddin Ibrahim The European Parliament , A. shocked at the conviction by an Egyptian State Security Court on 29 July 2002 of the outspoken advocate of human rights and democracy Prof. Saad Eddin Ibrahim and his 27 colleagues to a seven-year prison sentence, on the grounds of an alleged misuse of EU funding that has been repeatedly denied by the European Commission, B. whereas Prof. Saad Ibrahim was indicted and tried under an emergency law in force since 1981 and a military court order (No 4/1992), both of which were said to have been imposed to combat ‘terrorism’, C. whereas human rights organisations, both Egyptian and international, as well as the EU, which closely monitored the court proceedings, concluded that they fell short of the internationally accepted standards of fair trial, D. whereas the State Security Court totally disregarded the affidavit issued by the European Commission clearing Dr Ibrahim, the Ibn Khaldoun Centre and the League of Egyptian Women Voters (HODA) of any falsification in connection with the EU grants to both organisations which were at the centre of the charges against Dr Ibrahim and his associates, E. recalling Commissioner Patten’s statement of 30 July 2002, as well as the Presidency’s declarations, which both condemned the sentencing of Prof. Ibrahim and several of his colleagues from the Ibn Khaldoun Centre, F. praising the continuous attention of the Presidency in Cairo and the visit paid to Dr Ibrahim in jail on 21 August, as well as the activity and attention of Member States and the Commission, G. stressing that Prof. Saad Eddin Ibrahim is 63 years old and in failing health due to a degenerative neurological disorder impeding the regular flow of oxygen to the deep recesses of his brain, and is thus in dire need of specialised medical treatment, H. highlighting the role of civil society in the promotion of peace, stability and prosperity in the Euro-Mediterranean region, with regard, in particular, to the values upon which the Barcelona process is based, I. deeply concerned at the recent adoption of the law on non-governmental organisations which seriously restricts freedom of association in Egypt and further entrenches state domination over the non-governmental sector, 1. Expresses its deepest sympathy and support for Prof. Ibrahim, his colleagues and the entire Ibn Khaldoun Centre and its fundamental action in favour of democracy and the rule of law in the Arab countries; 2. Calls on the Egyptian President, His Excellency Hosni Mubarak, to use his constitutional powers to immediately release Prof. Ibrahim and his colleagues from prison while the appeal process is under way, and calls on the Egyptian legal system to assure that the appeal process fully respects the international standards on free