or suspects that a food which it has placed on the market may be potentially injurious to human health. The operators shall inform the competent authorities of the action taken to prevent risks to the final consumer. 2. A food business operator shall immediately inform the competent authorities if he considers or suspects that a food which it has placed on the market may be potentially injurious to human health. Employees who become aware of possible risks concerning the safety of food shall not be penalised for informing the relevant authorities. Persons who, by virtue of their professional activities, consider or suspect that a food placed on the market may be potentially injurious to human health shall also provide such information without detriment to their employment. The operators shall inform the competent authorities of the action taken to prevent risks to the final consumer. Amendment 71 Article 14, paragraph 3 3. Food business operators shall collaborate with the competent authorities according to the requests of the latter, on action taken to avoid risks posed by a food which they supply or have supplied. 3. Food business operators shall collaborate with the competent authorities according to the requests of the latter, on action taken to avoid or reduce risks posed by a food which they supply or have supplied. Amendment 72 Article 14, paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. Food business operators, being at the very earliest stage of the food chain, shall ensure that all stages of production and distribution under their control are carried out in such a manner that their produce complies with the relevant provisions of food and agricultural law and, in particular, food safety. A food business operator shall immediately inform the competent authorities if he considers or suspects that any of his produce which has been placed on the market has the potential to be injurious to public health. This is particularly important in the case of notifiable and other contagious animal diseases. Food business operators shall collaborate with the competent authorities in order to ensure that public health is protected. Amendment 73 Article 14, paragraph 5, subparagraph 1 5. A food business operator responsible for import, retail or distribution activities which do not affect the packaging, labelling, safety or integrity of the food shall act with due care to help ensure compliance with the food safety requirements. 5. A food business operator responsible for import, retail or distribution activities which do not affect the packaging, labelling, safety or integrity of the food shall take the necessary precautions within its area of responsibility to ensure compliance with the food safety requirements. Amendment 74 Article 14, paragraph 5 a (new) 5a. Subject to the extent of their respective activities, food business operators who have imported, produced, processed, transported, manufactured or distributed foodstuffs which do not comply with the relevant food law provisions, and thus endanger food safety, shall be held responsible for the direct short, medium and long-term consequences for human health. Amendment 75 Article 15, paragraph 2, subparagraph 1 2. A feed business operator shall immediately inform the