increase and that the GNP per head of the 25 member EU will fall by around 12.5 per cent compared to the present figure, major reform of regional policy is unavoidable. To meet these challenges, Parliament reaffirms is belief that the implementation of the Lisbon and Gothenburg strategies to promote competitiveness and sustainable development respectively should be priorities for the EU. On the financing of regional policy, Parliament repeats that the current threshold of 0.45 per cent of Community GDP allocated to the cohesion policy is a level beneath which it is not possible to fall without jeopardising the achievement of the objectives laid down in the Union's cohesion policy. Nevertheless, with a view to financial rigour, they accept the compromise proposed by the Commission of 0.41 per cent (which equates to 0.46 per cent before transfers to rural and fisheries development). In this context, MEPs warmly welcome the Commission's decision better to target the limited financial resources available. They are pleased with the proposal to limit the number of funds to three and to bring in the principle of there being only one fund per programme. MEPs also congratulate the Commission for confirming that regional policy concerns all the regions and all the Member States of the EU, which means the idea of renationalising cohesion policy is no longer relevant. Despite the positive reception for the possibility of phasing out support for regions who will leave 'Objective' 1 for statistical reasons, MEPs regret that the lack of an indication of the percentage of funds to be attributed to this Objective 1a and ask the Commission to clarify the matter. Parliament calls for particular attention for areas suffering from a permanent handicap such as islands, mountainous regions and those with a low population density, and for that the needs of these regions to be covered by other EU sectoral policies. As for rural areas, MEPs support the Commission's intention to create a single fund for rural developments, which will henceforth form the second pillar of the CAP. Nevertheless, they regret that the Commission has not confirmed an increase in the second pillar in the future EU budget, but plans instead to freeze rural development spending at the 2006 level, which would lead to a constant fall in rural development appropriations given that there will be 25 or 27 Member States. Regarding fisheries, MEPs say support instruments should support the sustainable development of fishing activities and an improvement of the living and working conditions of fishermen. Among other recommendations, Parliament stresses that towns, particularly small and medium-sized towns, ought to be regarded as vital elements in economic and social cohesion. MEPs urge Commission to come forward with proposals for the future of state aids based on Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty and argue that it is absolutely essential to maintain territorial differentiation in competition policy in order to pursue a territorial cohesion objective. While generally satisfied with the Third Report, MEPs oppose the current practice whereby Parliament only gives its opinion on this strategic document. It therefore asks for Parliament to rank equally