accurate and up-to-date; Justification Same justification as for Amendment 3. Amendment 11 Proposal for a decision Article 9 – paragraph -1 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment -1a. The processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union membership and data concerning health or sex life shall be prohibited. By way of exception, the processing of such data may be carried out if, in addition to the principles laid down in paragraph -1: (a) the processing is provided for by law, following prior authorisation by a competent judicial authority, on a case-by-case basis and is absolutely necessary for the purpose of a specific case; and (b) the Member States provide for suitable specific safeguards, for example access to the data concerned only for personnel who are responsible for the performance of the legitimate task that justifies the processing. Amendment 12 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 9 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Council Amendment 1. Personal data provided under Article 7(1) and (4) for the purposes of criminal proceedings may be used by the requesting Member State , solely for the purposes of the particular proceedings they were requested for, in accordance with the annexed form. 1. Personal data provided under Article 7(1) and (4) for the purposes of criminal proceedings may be used by the requesting Member State in accordance with the principles referred to in paragraph -1 and exclusively for the purposes of the particular proceedings they were requested for, in accordance with the annexed form. Justification Same justification as for Amendment 3. Amendment 13 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 9 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Council Amendment 2. Personal data provided under Article 7(2) and (4) for any purposes other than that of criminal proceedings may be used by the requesting Member State, in accordance with its national law , solely for the purposes of the particular proceedings they were requested for and within the limits set out by the requested Member State in the relevant form. 2. Personal data provided under Article 7(2) and (4) for any purposes other than that of criminal proceedings may be used by the requesting Member State, in accordance with its national law and with the principles referred to in paragraph -1 and exclusively for the purposes of the particular proceedings they were requested for and within the limits set out by the requested Member State in the relevant form. Justification Same justification as for Amendment 3. Amendment 14 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 9 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Council Amendment 3. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, personal data provided under Article 7(1), (2) and (4) may be used by the requesting Member State for preventing an immediate and serious threat to public security. 3. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, personal data provided under Article 7(1), (2) and (4) may be used by the requesting Member State if such use is necessary and proportionate for the purpose of preventing