No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency OJ L 136, 30.4.2004, p. 1. should therefore be amended, HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 Article 64(1) of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 is hereby replaced by the following : 1. " 1. The Executive Director shall be appointed by the Management Board, on a proposal from the Commission, after hearing the opinion of the representative appointed by the European Parliament, for a period of five years on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission following a call for expressions of interest published in the Official Journal of the European Union and elsewhere. Before appointment, the candidate nominated by the Management Board shall be invited forthwith to make a statement to the European Parliament and to answer any questions put by its Members. The Management Board may, upon a proposal from the Commission, after hearing the opinion of the representative appointed by the European Parliament, remove the Executive Director from his post. After an evaluation and after hearing the opinion of the representative appointed by the European Parliament , the Management Board may extend the term of office of the Executive Director once for a period of not more than five years. In the evaluation, the Management Board shall assess in particular: – the results achieved in the first term of office and the way in which they have been achieved; – the Agency's duties and requirements in the coming years. The evaluation shall be submitted without delay to the Commission and to the European Parliament. ". Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the [...] day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at [...] , For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President