your rapporteurs reckon that the requested 5.000 signatures should be collected within 6 months ; by setting this time limit, it would be possible to eliminate initiatives that are registered but never get the specified number of signatures. Your rapporteurs also suggest that the Commission shall investigate the admissibility of an initiative within one month instead of two, so that the momentum of collecting signatures is not slowed down. Your rapporteurs also believe that proposals either manifestly or covertly against the values of the European Union should be considered inadmissible . As far as the online collection of signatures is concerned , your rapporteurs suggest that the Commission shall launch a central website named "citizensinitiative.eu", where all initiatives should be registered and all initiatives can be found and signed by citizens. This solution would be highly desirable for several reasons. Firstly, because of data protection concerns , i.e. if the Commission set up and operated a central website, it would be guaranteed that rules and regulations concerning personal data protection are respected. Your rapporteurs firmly believe that it cannot be expected from any initiator of a citizens' initiative to set up and operate an online signature-collecting system, which meets all the relevant data-privacy regulations. Moreover, by making each initiator launch his/her own website, the collection of signatures would not be uniform from a data protection point of view. Secondly, the Commission's proposal would also be problematic as it would impose an extra burden not only on the initiators, but on Member States as well, as they should verify the conformity of the online collection systems with the regulations set out by the Commission, and they should also issue a certificate confirming the conformity concerning each website. Thirdly, having all citizens' initiatives on one single website would make the accessibility of the initiatives much easier, as interested citizens could find, sign and follow the progress of all the initiatives quickly and without any difficulties. Thus, your rapporteurs believe that the Commission should set up a central website, in the task of which it should involve relevant authorities of Member States in order to decide what data they need to identify and verify the identity of signatories later. The website should be constructed in such a way that when signing an initiative online the signatory would be first asked about his/her nationality, then only those fields should be filled in which are required by the relevant authorities. The reason behind this solution is that different Member States have different types of identification numbers and need different data to verify the identity of the signatories. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (3) These procedures and conditions should be clear, simple, user-friendly and proportionate to the nature of the citizens' initiative. (3) These procedures and conditions should be clear, simple, user-friendly and proportionate to the nature of the citizens'