Photo gallery: things we learned in Strasbourg Institutions 2011-03-11 - 08:07 Ahead of the debate on International Women's Day , a women's silhouette in the EP's corridors. EP Vice-President Dagmar Roth-Behrendt and Vice-President Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou look at the celebrations A woman walks past the Women's Day poster in the EP in Strasbourg. Some MEPs dressed as men as a playful protest against gender inequality. Hungarian Roma MEP Lívia Járóka (EPP) drafted a report on improving life for Europe's Roma communities. Romanian MEP Rovana Plumb (top) drafted a report on female poverty in the EU whilst a report by Bulgarian MEP Mariya Nedelcheva raised the issue of the pay gap between men and women. Hungarian president Pál Schmitt is greeted by EP President Jerzy Buzek. Top: Portuguese MEP Marisa Matias with a rose in her hair shortly before the International Women's Day debate. (Bottom) Shirin Wheeler of the BBC reports from the Parliament. (Left) MEP and EP Vice-President Silvana Koch-Mehrin speaks during the Women's Day debate - (right) MEP Rebecca Harms makes a point during the Women's Day debate. A future member takes their first steps? With Libya's rebellion, euro stability, financial transaction tax, Roma rights, Iran policy, Turkish membership and industrial policy on the plate, MEPs also found time for such diverse issues as swine flu, volcanic ash crisis, protein and rare mineral shortage. All of it - in the backdrop of the 100th Women's Day celebrations. Taxing financial transactions On Tuesday, the Parliament voted in favour of a tax on financial transactions. Apart from generating revenue which could be used to support sustainable development, MEPs saw this as a mechanism to reduce speculation and improve the safety of the financial sector. Turkey and Montenegro accession talks Working on accession to the EU, Turkey disappointed the MEPs, while Montenegro was applauded, but still criticised for its corruption. Parliament has concerns about the slow progress on human rights and institutional reforms in Turkey. MEPs expressed their hope that accession talks with Montenegro could begin this year. International Women's Day Female MEPs dressed as men to draw attention to gender inequality in Europe. In plenary, celebrating the centenary of the International Women's Day, MEPs and their invitees spoke in favour of equal pay, more women in top jobs, and protecting working mothers. Libya MEPs demanded the enforcement of a no-fly zone over Libya and the recognition of rebel authorities to help the insurrection against the regime. They also proposed to create a "Marshall plan" for the region in order to give the people a perspective of peace and democracy. Innovative industrial policy Europe's industry that creates almost 60 million jobs is feeling dire consequences of economic downturn and increasing competition. According to MEPs, it can survive globalisation only by moving to innovation, resource efficiency and knowledge economy, supported by smart industrial policy. Securing supply of rare earth elements MEPs demanded Commission to ensure that EU is not hurt by imminent shortage of imported rare earth elements (REE), essential for green, medical and military technologies. Responsibility and solidarity There were they key concepts during Wednesday's