the Council decision in accordance with Article 126(6) of the Treaty, recommend to reduce the amount of the non-interest-bearing deposit or to cancel it. 4a. The deposit shall be lodged with the Commission. If the Member State has an interest-bearing deposit lodged with the Commission in accordance with Article 3, the interest-bearing deposit shall be converted into a non-interest-bearing deposit. If the size of the previously lodged interest-bearing deposit and of the interest accrued exceeds the size of the required non-interest-bearing deposit, the outstanding difference shall be returned to the Member State. If the size of the required non-interest-bearing deposit exceeds the size of the previously lodged interest-bearing deposit and the interest accrued thereon, the Member State shall make up the outstanding difference when it lodges the non-interest-bearing deposit. Article 5 Fine 1. Within 20 days of the adoption of a Council decision in accordance with Article 126(8) TFEU that the Member State has not taken effective action to correct its excessive deficit, the Commission shall recommend to the Council that a fine is imposed . The decision shall be deemed adopted by the Council unless it decides by qualified majority to reject the recommendation within 10 days of the Commission adopting it. The Council may amend the recommendation of the Commission acting by a qualified majority . 2. The fine to be recommended by the Commission shall amount to 0.2% of the GDP of the Member State concerned in the preceding year. ▌ 4. By derogation ▌, the Commission may, on grounds of exceptional economic circumstances or following a reasoned request by the Member State concerned addressed to the Commission within 10 days of adoption of the Council decision in accordance with Article 126(8) TFEU , recommend to reduce the amount of the fines or to cancel it . 4a. If the Member State has a non-interest-bearing deposit lodged with the Commission in accordance with Article 4, the non-interest-bearing deposit shall be converted into the fine. If the size of the previously lodged non-interest-bearing deposit exceeds the size of the required fine, the outstanding difference shall be returned to the Member State. If the size of the required fine exceeds the size of the previously lodged non-interest-bearing deposit, or if no non-interest-bearing deposit has been previously lodged, the Member State shall make up the outstanding difference when it pays the fine. Article 6 Return of the non-interest-bearing deposit If the Council decides in accordance with Article 126(12) of the Treaty to abrogate some or all of its decisions, any non-interest-bearing deposit lodged by the Member State with the Commission shall be returned to the Member State concerned. Article 6a Sanctioning the manipulation of statistics 1. The Council acting on a recommendation by the Commission, may decide to impose a fine on a Member State that intentionally or by serious negligence, misrepresents deficit and debt data relevant for the application of Articles 121 and 126 of the Treaty and the protocol (No 12) annexed to the Treaty. 2. The fines referred to in paragraph 1 shall be effective, dissuasive and proportionate to