Answer given by Mr Bolkestein on behalf of the Commission (5 June 2003) The Commission recently received a complaint concerning possible discriminatory treatment at the time of the process of demutualization of an entity in the United Kingdom. To reply to this complaint, the Commission requested the assistance of the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority (FSA). According to the FSA, in the process of demutualization of that entity, its members were allotted shares in the new public limited company as compensation for giving up their membership rights, except for those members who were resident in countries other than the United Kingdom and who receive cash instead of shares. The process of demutualization was governed by the company's rules of constitution; it was agreed between its members; and it was not subject to the jurisdiction of the FSA. This exception for non-United Kingdom residents was apparently made with a view to the perceived extra expense involved in issuing shares to non-United Kingdom residents and the information about this envisaged exception was made available to all members prior to the above mentioned agreements. In that case, the Commission considered that neither article 12 of the EC Treaty nor the Community case law offered any support to pursue the matter further. The Commission can only start an infringement procedure on the basis of Article 226 of the EC Treaty against a Member Sate if that Member State has failed to fulfil an obligation under the EC Treaty. In this case, the issue at stake concerns rights granted amongst private parties and falls, in the Commission's opinion, within the competence of the British authorities and courts. From the information given in the written question regarding the allocation of shares during the Building Society's conversion into a public limited company (plc), it is not possible to determine whether there is discrimination on grounds of residence. In this case, unlike in the previous one, there is even a different treatment between those members who were resident in countries other than the United Kingdom. The Commission will proceed to obtain more detailed information on this part of case and has written to the FSA for assistance. The Commission will analyse whether the differences with the previous case above mentioned imply any discrimination and will take the necessary measures if appropriate.