21.4.2008 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on the statement by the Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Michael Cramer on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group on the New Flame shipwreck and its consequences in Algeciras Bay European Parliament resolution on the New Flame shipwreck and its consequences in Algeciras Bay The European Parliament , – having regard to its previous resolutions on maritime accidents and pollution, as well as on maritime policy and strategy, – having regard to its decisions on the Third Maritime Safety Package, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas on 12 August 2007 the cargo vessel New Flame and the oil tanker Torm Gertrud collided off the coast of Gibraltar, causing the New Flame to sink, B. whereas the New Flame is at present lying on the seabed and, given that it had a capacity of nearly 44 000 tonnes and contains at least 27 000 tonnes of scrap metal, could affect water quality, adding to the concentration of heavy metals in the area; whereas the lack of public knowledge as to what else the New Flame was carrying makes it difficult to determine the total environmental impact, C. whereas, eight months after it sank, the New Flame still poses a constant threat to the environment, being a source of fuel release into the sea, with seven spillages having occurred so far and with a risk of new ones; whereas once fuel is released into the sea it spreads rapidly, reaching the shore as well and covering large stretches of coast, D. whereas the coastal population and the environment in the area are still under considerable threat from maritime traffic and bunkering activities, as well as other sources of pollution in the area of the Bay of Algeciras, E. whereas the possible splitting of the vessel into two would not only pollute the seabed and the sea, but also damage nearby fishing grounds and coastal tourism, F. whereas this and other maritime accidents such as the Erika and Prestige disasters, as well as pollution from shipping in general, raise awareness of the potential danger from similar events, G. whereas the European Parliament has long since adopted its amendments at first reading on the Third Maritime Package, which contains nine legislative proposals, 1. Urges Spain, the UK and Gibraltar to intensify and speed up their trilateral communication and cooperation with a view to preventing potential further pollution by the New Flame ; 2. Underlines the need for Spain, the UK and Gibraltar to create a joint control body with a view to better information exchange as a means of avoiding such incidents and managing more efficiently the growing number of bunkering activities taking place in Algeciras Bay; 3. Encourages the ports of Algeciras and Gibraltar to improve their communication and cooperation, as well as their Port State Control activities; 4. Urges that the fuel be safely removed from its containers and the ship salvaged; 5. Demands a rigorous and transparent toxicological analysis of the