Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 3 3. The Commission, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 52, may exempt certain categories of third country fishing vessels from the obligation stipulated in paragraph 1 for a limited and renewable period, or make provision for another notification period taking into account, inter alia, the distance between the fishing grounds, landing places and ports where the vessels in question are registered or listed. deleted Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 4 4. By way of derogation to paragraphs 2 and 3 the port Member State may authorise port access and all or part of a landing in cases where the information referred to in paragraph 1 is not complete or its verification is pending, but shall in such cases keep the fish concerned in storage under the control of the competent authorities. The fish shall only be released to be sold, taken over or transported once the information referred to in paragraph 1 has been received or the verification process is completed. If this process is not completed within 14 days of the landing, the port Member State may confiscate and dispose of the fish in accordance with national rules. 4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 2 and 3 the port Member State may authorise port access and all or part of a landing in cases where the information referred to in paragraph 1 is not complete or its verification is pending, but shall in such cases keep the deep-frozen fish concerned in storage under the control of the competent authorities. The fish shall only be released to be sold, taken over or transported once the information referred to in paragraph 1 has been received or the verification process is completed. If this process is not completed within 14 days of the landing, the port Member State may confiscate and dispose of the fish in accordance with national rules. The storage costs shall be borne by the operator. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. If the fish referred to in paragraph 4 is fresh, the fish shall be sold through the regular channels . The competent authorities shall retain control over the proceeds of sale until the period referred to in paragraph 4 has elapsed . Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 1 1. Member States shall carry out inspections in their ports of at least 15% of landings, transhipments and on-board processing operations by third country fishing vessels each year. 1. Member States shall carry out inspections in their ports of at least 50% of landings, transhipments and on-board processing operations by third country fishing vessels each year. Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Article 9 – paragraph 2 – point d d) fishing vessels appearing in a list of presumed IUU vessels adopted by a Regional Fisheries Management Organisation notified in accordance with Article 29. d) fishing vessels appearing in a list of presumed IUU vessels adopted by a Regional Fisheries