Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (18 April 2007) The Commission refers to its replies to previous questions, namely Written Question P‑5441/06 by Mrs Mastenbroek and oral question O-132/06 by Mrs Berès and Mr Cavada January II Session, 31.1.2007. . The Commision informed Parliament on 6 July 2006 that the processing of personal data activities performed by SWIFT for the execution of bank payments fall under the scope of Directive 95/46/EC OJ L 281, 23.11.1995. (‘the directive’). The Commission has also stated that the processing of personal data by SWIFT and financial institutions has to comply with data protection principles laid down by the directive. On 9 March 2007, the Council Presidency and Commission jointly wrote to the Chairs of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to update them on the SWIFT dossiers. In accordance with the directive, Member States' competent authorities are responsible for monitoring the lawfulness of processing carried out within their territory pursuant to their national law and for ensuring compliance with their law. The opinion presented by the Article 29 Working Party on 22 November 2006 confirms that Member States have to take measures to ensure compliance with national data protection laws implementing the directive. The Commission informs the Honourable Member that SWIFT is in contact with the Belgian data protection authority to determine measures ensuring compliance with Belgian data protection legislation. SWIFT has notified the Belgian data protection authority of its processing activities; it also plans to adhere to the Safe Harbor Principles subject to the respective United States (US) competent authorities (Department of Commerce and Federal Trade Commission) Commission Decision 2000/520/EC of 26.7.2000, OJ L 215, 25.8.2000. . SWIFT is also working with banks in order to determine the modalities and contents of information that should be provided to bank customers in accordance with the directive. The Commission has asked Member States to provide information on measures taken or planned to ensure that national laws adopted in accordance with the directive are applied to processing of personal data for execution of payment orders via SWIFT. On the basis of the replies received to date, it appears that financial institutions were not aware of the transfer of data processed by SWIFT to the US Treasury Department. It is also understood that national data protection authorities have contacted financial institutions in order to require them to adopt the appropriate measures to comply with information requirements. The Commission informs the Honourable Member that it considers necessary to find a solution that will guarantee the protection of privacy rights of individuals while ensuring that the U.S. Treasury Department can continue to process SWIFT data for legitimate counter terrorism investigation. The Commission is holding exploratory discussions with the US authorities in order to find an appropriate solution. In this regard, the Commission is examining whether accession to the Safe Harbor by SWIFT would be sufficient to legitimate the transfers of personal data to its mirror server in the US under the Safe Harbor Decision. Adherence to