admissibility. In the rapporteurs' view if a certain move by citizens fulfils all the criteria set out by the treaty and the regulation for a citizens' initiative, the organisers' right to collect signatures can not be denied. In that case there is no need to further examine "admissibility". On the other hand, if it doesn't fulfil those criteria, then it is not a citizens' initiative but something else (petition, letter, complaint, etc.) and in that case, for the sake of legal certainty, it should be made clear from the beginning that collecting signatures is a waste of time. The Regulation therefore should contain the criteria laid down in this amendment in order to make it possible to assess right in the beginning whether a citizens' initiative is on the table or not. If any of the above criteria is not fulfilled, the Commission can automatically deny registration, because the proposed move is not a citizens' initiative; thus the Commission wouldn't formally give a decision on competence issues: it would simply decide on an administrative level whether it is a citizens' initiative or not. The Commission should have a reasonable deadline for the decision on the registration of an initiative, because some serious initiatives could require a thorough evaluation of the issue. Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 3 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3a. The Commission shall reject the registration if the conditions laid down in paragraph 3 are not met. The Commission shall take any measures it considers necessary to assure organisers that its decision on the registration fully respects the letter and the spirit of the Treaties, without prejudice to its subsequent decision on the substance of the matter. Where it refuses to register an initiative, the Commission shall inform the organisers of the reasons for such refusal and of all possible judicial and extrajudicial remedies available to them. Justification The registration of an initiative should only be refused if it is not a citizens' initiative pursuant to this Regulation or if this can not be assessed, because there are serious contradictions in the translations prepared by the organisers. The Commission should decide on the registration on strict legal grounds; however, that decision should not bind its hands as to its ulterior decision on the substance of the matter. As a part of good administration, organisers should have feedback from the Commission which would allow them to adjust the initiative in order to be appropriate for registration. The organisers should also have information on the modalities on how to challenge the Commission's decision if they deem it necessary. Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 4 – paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The Commission shall reject the registration of proposed citizens' initiatives which are manifestly against the values of the Union . 4. At any time before the submission of statements of support in accordance with Article 9, the organisers may withdraw a registered initiative. If an initiative is withdrawn, an indication to that effect shall be entered in