News Report : 17-02-2003 Brussels, 17 February 2003 Kofi Annan at the Conference of Presidents Shortly before the start of Monday's special European Council meeting on Iraq, UN Secretary-General Kofi ANNAN spoke to the European Parliament's Conference of Presidents. In his opening words to the meeting, EP President Pat COX spoke of Parliament's commitment to a multilateral approach to the Iraq crisis and of the central role that must be played by the Security Council. He also assured Mr Annan that, whatever decision the Security Council were to take on Iraq, it would be able to count on the European Parliament's unfailing support. Mr ANNAN said that he was going to the special summit with the intention of urging the Heads of State or Government to employ a calmer tone and seek common ground on the issue. In the wake of Friday's presentation of the report by chief weapons inspector Hans Blix, the UN Secretary-General confirmed that Iraq's cooperation with the inspections had improved but that Baghdad could do more. According to Mr Annan, a large majority of the Security Council was today in favour of extending the mission of the inspectors. As regards any deadlines for the inspections, Mr Annan pointed out that no resolution had laid down a specific deadline and none had been mentioned by Mr Blix. However, he argued that time was of the essence, both for implementing the inspection process and for its substance. Press enquiries: David Harley, GSM 00 32 496 59 94 53 ECB – steady as she goes despite uncertainty, says Wim Duisenberg ECB President Wim DUISENBERG was determined to remain cautiously optimistic about medium-term prospects for the European economy despite present uncertainties on the international front, when he addressed the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs this afternoon. While he recognised that in today’s climate it was impossible to come up with accurate forecasts for the future and that early indications were that growth ”will remain weak for the early part of this year” , he was confident that the reduction in the eurozone interest rate to 2.75% last December would contribute to a gradual increase in GDP growth in the second half of this year. In addition, the appreciation of the euro over the past few months, although reducing export prospects to some extent, was not having a dramatic impact on price competitiveness of eurozone goods. Nevertheless, he warned that turbulence on the oil markets could have an adverse affect on the economy and employment. Despite uncertainties over forecasting, on balance recent indications were that inflation would fall to a level of below 2% later in the year. At the same time he confirmed his full support for the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact including ”the steps taken by the Commission to maintain the functioning of the framework, including the implementation of excessive deficit procedures and the issuing of early warnings, where required ”. His view was that the response of the European economy to external shocks should be to improve flexibility and carry on with the implementation of structural