and inland waterway applications to help promote them as environmentally friendly modes of transport. Justification All rail applications should be included now instead of being phased in. This will also take better account of rail as an environment-friendly form of transport. Amendment 8 Recital 7a (new) (7a) In addition, there is also a need in the future for a further reduction in the limit values for engines for use in rail vehicles and inland waterway vessels. Justification There is still a very great potential for emission reduction in inland shipping, which must definitely be exploited on environmental grounds! In the Netherlands, for example, inland shipping is responsible for up to 40% of total NOx emissions. Amendment 9 Recital 7a (new) (7a) Where large non-road mobile machinery complies with future limit values ahead of the deadline, it should be possible to indicate that it does so in the same way as for small non-road mobile machinery. Justification Where future limit values are complied with ahead of time, manufacturers should be able to indicate as much on their products and use it for advertising purposes. Labelling of this kind will also enable consumers to make a more informed decision when purchasing a product. Amendment 10 Recital 8 (8) Because of the technology needed to meet the Stage III B limits for PM emissions, the sulphur content of the fuel must be reduced from today’s levels in many Member States. A reference fuel that reflects the fuel market situation should be defined. (8) Because of the technology needed to meet the Stage IV limits for PM emissions, the sulphur content of the fuel must be reduced from today’s levels in many Member States. A reference fuel that reflects the fuel market situation should be defined. Justification For greater clarity, Stage III A becomes Stage III and Stage III B becomes Stage IV. This also makes it clear that Stage IV is another genuine stage of reduction with new requirements. Amendment 11 Recital 8a (new) (8a) Directive 2003/17/EC created the relevant conditions for the necessary fuel quality under which sulphur-free (10ppm) diesel fuel will be available in the Member States from 1 January 2009, very probably for non-road mobile machinery also. Modern exhaust reduction technologies could therefore also be used here. Justification Self-explanatory. Amendment 12 ARTICLE 1, POINT 6(b) Article 9 (Directive 97/68/EC) (b) The following paragraphs 3a, 3b and 3c are inserted: (b) The following paragraphs 3a, 3b , 3c, 3d, 3e and 3f are inserted: Justification Follows from extending the scope to rail vehicles (Stages III and IV) and the introduction of a second stage for inland waterway vessels (Stage IV). Amendment 13 ARTICLE 1, POINT 6(b) Article 9, paragraph 3b (new), heading (Directive 97/68/EC) (3b) TYPE-APPROVAL OF STAGE III B ENGINES (ENGINE CATEGORIES K, L, M and N) (3b) TYPE-APPROVAL OF STAGE IV ENGINES (ENGINE CATEGORIES K, L, M and N) Justification For greater clarity, Stage III A becomes Stage III and Stage III B becomes Stage IV. This also makes it clear that Stage IV is another genuine stage of reduction with