Answer given by Mr Oettinger on behalf of the Commission (9 February 2011) The Commission is aware that the traditional forest-based industries are concerned about price increases of raw materials as well as wood availability. 1. The Commission is of the view that the EU has a great potential to increase the sustainable supply of wood through an active sustainable forest management policy, while paying due attention to all other forest functions, while also being aware of some forecasts suggesting a possible imbalance between demand and supply of timber in the future. In this context ‘Good practice guidance on sustainable mobilisation of wood in Europe’ was published http://ec.europa.eu/agriculture/fore/publi/forest_brochure_en.pdf . Wood availability and consumption for energy and other uses need to be closely monitored as well as their impacts on forest-based industries, forest ecosystems, and timber trade. In their National Renewable Energy Action Plans (NREAPs) submitted under the Renewable Energy Directive Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, OJ L 140, 5.6.2009. , Member States must outline how they plan to increase biomass availability and what is the impact of energy uses of biomass on other sectors. The Commission has to date received all 27 plans All plans are available on the Commission's Renewable Energy Transparency Platform http://ec.europa.eu/energy/renewables/transparency_platform/action_plan_en.htm and is in the process of evaluating them. The Commission will also shortly launch a study to assess the situation and perspectives for the supply/demand of wood, taking into account the potential demand from both the forest-based industries and from the renewable energy sector. 2. Under the abovementioned directive, all Member States have an obligation to reach a certain share of renewable energy by 2020. However, the choice of which renewable energy sources is used to meet the obligation is left to the individual Member States. Specific responsibility for promoting biomass for energy (or other purposes), or to promote other renewable energy sources, also lies with the Member States. As far as bioenergy support mechanisms are concerned, Member States are allowed — within the limits of EU legislation — to provide compensation for the imperfect competition and external costs faced by biomass energy producers in the energy market. Any support constituting State Aid must be approved in line with the relevant EU legislation. 3-4. In its Green Paper on forest protection COM(2010)66 final Green Paper on Forest Protection and Information in the EU: Preparing forests for climate change. , the Commission considers that healthy forests, the timber industry and the renewable energy sector can all contribute positively to the EU 2020 objectives, economic growth and jobs. The communication on Innovative and Sustainable Forest-based Industries in the EU http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/sectors/wood-paper-printing/documents/communication/index_en.htm mentions that a sustainable supply of wood raw material to the forest-based industries could be facilitated, better matching supply and demand through active sustainable forest management. It should be kept in mind also that the timber industry already plays an important role as a provider of renewable energy from wood biomass. The communication COM(2008)645 final. Addressing the challenges of deforestation and forest degradation to tackle climate change and biodiversity loss. on