or generally accepted accounting methods; on the grounds that it appears to the Secretary of State that the company has failed to cover its liabilities by assets of appropriate safety, yield and marketability (section 35A). Section 45 of the Act, as amended by the Insurance Companies (Third Insurance Directives) Regulations 1994, confers on the Secretary of State a residual power “to take such action as appears to him to be appropriate for the purpose of protecting policyholders or potential policyholders of the company against the risk that the company may be unable to meet its liabilities or, in the case of long-term business, to fulfil the reasonable expectations of policyholders or potential policyholders”. Such residual power, which can only be exercised when the Secretary of State considers that those purposes cannot be appropriately achieved by the exercise of the powers expressly mentioned by the Act in sections 38 to 44, includes the Secretary of State’s power to restrict the company’s freedom to dispose of its assets. Paragraph 2 of section 45 basically reiterates the grounds enumerated by section 37(3) on the basis of which the Secretary of State may restrict the company’s freedom to dispose of its assets. With respect to the formalities to be observed, the Act prescribes that when exercising any of the powers conferred by the Act, the Secretary of State must “state the ground on which he is exercising it”. To restrict a company’s freedom to dispose of its assets, the Secretary of State must apply to the Court for an injunction. Section 40A prescribes the conditions under which the Court may, on the application of the Secretary of State, grant the requested injunction. Such restriction is limited to the value of the company’s “EC liabilities”. It stems from the provisions cited above that the power of the Secretary of State to freeze a company’s assets under UK legislation is broader than that conferred by the Directive to Member State’s competent authorities. In other words, the Secretary of State can restrict a company’s freedom to dispose of its assets in more circumstances than those exceptionally envisaged by the Directive. The exercise by the Secretary of State of his power to freeze a company’s assets is subject, however, to the observance of special formalities - including the need to apply before a court for an injunction – which are not prescribed by the Directive. Link to the ELAS case The applicability of Article 12 to the Equitable Life crisis is unclear. The UK regulator claimed that this article was not relevant and justified its lack of intervention in the 1990’s by stating that, "Equitable has always been solvent and in its regulatory returns it has always reported that it is currently meeting its regulatory solvency requirements" (David STRACHAN, as stated in H4). Given that the solvency margin was always formally respected by ELAS, paragraph 3 of the article was never activated. For further information on this point, see the section on Article 25 on the Solvency margin and Part III on Regulatory Action. Divergences between the 3LD and implementing