the Member States. Such data shall not be made public through the provision of copies or through any other means of publication (including electronic publication). 5. This Article is without prejudice to Directive 2003/4/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 on public access to environmental information OJ L 41, 14.2.2003, p. 26. . CHAPTER VII PACKAGING, LABELLING AND ADVERTISING OF PLANT PROTECTION PRODUCTS AND ADJUVANTS Article 67 Packaging and presentation 1. Plant protection products and adjuvants that may be mistaken for food, drink or feed shall be packaged in such a way as to minimise the likelihood of such a mistake being made. 2. Plant protection products and adjuvants available to the general public that may be mistaken for food, drink or feed shall contain components to discourage or prevent their consumption. 3. Article 9 of Directive 1999/45/EC shall also apply to plant protection products and adjuvants not covered by that Directive. Article 68 Labelling 1. The labelling of plant protection products shall comply with the requirements set out in a Regulation adopted in accordance with the advisory procedure referred to in Article 83 (2). That Regulation shall also contain standard phrases for special risks and safety precautions which supplement the phrases provided for by Directive 1999/45/EC. It shall transfer the text of the Annexes IV and V to Directive 91/414/EEC with any ▐modifications necessary due to the change from a directive to a regulation . 2. Member States may require samples or mock-ups of the packaging and drafts of labels and leaflets to be submitted for examination before an authorisation is granted. 3. Where a Member State considers that additional phrases are necessary to protect human or animal health or the environment, it shall notify the other Member States and the Commission forthwith and shall forward the additional phrase or phrases and the reasons for these requirements. Such phrases shall be included in the Regulation referred to in paragraph 1. Pending that inclusion, the Member State may require the use of the additional phrase or phrases. 4. Food products which do not comply with the provisions of Commission Directive 2006/125/EC of 5 December 2006 on processed cereal-based foods and baby foods for infants and young children OJ L 339, 6.12.2006, p. 16. , shall be labelled "not suitable for infants and young children". Article 69 Advertising 1. Every advertisement for a plant protection product shall be accompanied by the sentences "Use plant protection products safely. Always read the label and product information before use". These sentences shall be clearly distinguishable in relation to the whole advertisement. The words "plant protection products" may be replaced by a more precise description of the product-type, such as fungicide, insecticide or herbicide. 2. The advertisement shall not include information which could be misleading as regards possible risks to human or animal health or to the environment, such as the terms "low risk", "non-toxic" or "harmless". 3. Member States may prohibit or restrict the advertising of plant protection products in certain media. CHAPTER VIII CONTROLS Article 70 Record keeping 1.