including by the Insurance Companies (Accounts and Statements) (Amendment) Regulations 1994 to implement the Third Life and Non-Life Directives to the extent that they affect the form and contents of the annual returns. In 1996, the 1983 Regulations, as amended, were consolidated with modifications by the Insurance Companies (Accounts and Statements) Regulations 1996. The returns are made up of a balance sheet, a profit and loss account, a revenue account, an abstract of the actuary’s annual valuation report and additional information on general business and on long-term business. Additional information must be submitted in the form of statements which must provide information on, inter alia, major treaty and facultative reinsurers, company’s policy on investment in derivatives and details of all controllers of the company, including their name and the shareholding held. The ICA 1982 establishes three mechanisms to enhance the reliability of the regulatory returns: a) the Act makes it an offence knowingly or recklessly to cause or permit a statement which is false in a material particular to be included in a return; b) the directors of a company are required to certify that the return has been properly prepared and that the solvency requirements have been complied with; c) in the case of a company carrying on long-term business, the appointed actuary must also certify whether, in his opinion, proper provision has been made with respect to its liabilities; d) returns must be audited. Although the annual return is primarily intended to enable the regulator to monitor the solvency of insurers, it is also available on request to policyholders and shareholders and open to public inspection at the appropriate Companies House. For life assurers, the appointed actuary must produce an annual valuation report to enable the regulator to form an opinion as to whether the minimum standards set out in the appropriate rules are met by the actuarial reserves. The appointed actuary must also prepare a statement of its long-term business at least once every five years. The requirement in UK legislation that every insurance company appoint an actuary as the actuary of the company is not a requirement of the 3LD. The actuary must possess the prescribed qualifications, i.e. he/she must be a fellow of the Institute of Actuaries or of the Faculty of Actuaries. The appointment of the Actuary must be notified to the Secretary of State and a statement with information on the actuary’s interests in the company (e.g. shares or debentures of the company in which the actuary had an interest, particulars of any pecuniary interest of the actuary in any transaction between the actuary and the company, remuneration and other benefits received by the Actuary, etc.). This information must be provided to the Secretary of State on a yearly basis. The obligation to provide statistical information is prescribed by Regulations 79 to 83 of the Insurance Companies Regulations 1994. The forms to be used are set out in Schedules 15 and 16 of those Regulations. The statistical information must be submitted on a yearly basis. Default in complying with these obligations is an offence. Supervisory