information , and the accuracy of that information, about the existence of infectious or contagious animal diseases in its territory, in particular the diseases mentioned in Lists A and B of the International Office of Epizootic Diseases (OIE) or, in the case of diseases of aquaculture animals, the notifiable diseases as listed in the Aquatic Animal Health Code of the OIE, Amendment 16 Article 9, paragraphs 1 to 4 1. Audits and/or inspections at all stages covered by this Regulation may be carried out by experts from the Commission in third countries in order to verify compliance or equivalence with Community animal health rules. Commission experts may be accompanied by any other expert appointed by the Commission for the purposes of the audit and/or inspection. 1. Audits and/or inspections at all stages covered by this Regulation shall be carried out by experts from the Commission in third countries in order to verify compliance or equivalence with Community animal health rules. Commission experts may be accompanied by any other expert appointed by the Commission for the purposes of the audit and/or inspection. 2. The audits and/or inspections in third countries referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out on behalf of the Commission and the latter shall meet the costs incurred. 2. The audits and/or inspections in third countries referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out on behalf of the Commission and the latter shall meet the costs incurred. 3. The procedure for the audits and/or inspections in third countries referred to in paragraph 1 may be determined or amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11. 3. The procedure for the audits and/or inspections in third countries referred to in paragraph 1 may be determined or amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11. 4. If during a Community audit and/or inspection a serious risk to animal health is identified, the Commission shall immediately take the measures necessary to safeguard animal health and shall immediately inform the Member States thereof. 4. If during a Community audit and/or inspection a serious risk to animal health is identified, the Commission shall immediately take the measures necessary to safeguard animal health and shall immediately inform the Member States thereof by means of the early warning system. Amendment 17 Annex II, point 2, paragraph 2 The mark must be applied by or under the responsibility of the official veterinarian responsible for controlling the implementation of the animal health requirements. The mark must be applied by the official veterinarian responsible for controlling the implementation of the animal health requirements.