WRITTEN QUESTION E-1996/07 by Roberta Angelilli (UEN) to the Commission (13 April 2007) Subject: The San Camillo-Forlanini hospital in Rome: possible infringement of rules on competition and public procurement By Decisions No 1946/06 and No 2051/06, the general director of the San Camillo-Forlanini hospital in Rome decided to purchase a CAT scanner produced by the firm Siemens at a total price of EUR 472 000. In January 2007 he also decided to buy a more modern Siemens angiograph machine for the sum of EUR 1 095 000, and then, by decision No 333 of 26 February 2007, to buy another scanner, also from Siemens, for the radiology department of the Forlanini hospital, at a total price of EUR 2 472 000. However, no call to tender had been issued for the acquisition of the two CAT scanners, costing a total of EUR 4 944 000. The firm claimed to have an exclusive right to the technology, in particular as regards cardiological imaging. The general director did not see fit to verify in detail the claims made regarding exclusive rights or the technical qualities of the Siemens CAT scanners by making a transparent quality/price comparison via a proper tendering procedure. The high cost of the equipment, more than 30 % higher than the current market estimates for the best CAT scanners, should have made him exercise more caution and care by using a totally public tendering procedure. Furthermore now, more than eight months after the first Siemens CAT scanner was purchased, the building and installation work required to set the equipment up has still not been contracted out. In fact, it was not until 22 February 2007, that the contract for the installation of the first of the two CAT machines was awarded by Decision No 330, i.e. more than eight months after the decision to purchase them, although delivery of the CAT scanner was expected within 180 days of the date of purchase. Furthermore, the second CAT scanner was purchased against a background of the gradual restructuring and closure of the Forlanini hospital, decided by the Lazio Region, and thus there was insufficient justification for such high expenditure. Work on the installation of this CAT scanner has not yet been scheduled or contracted out either and it is thus very likely to be installed at the end of this year, by which time the Forlanini hospital is supposed to close and its services be transferred to the San Camillo hospital. Furthermore, it should be remembered that the Commission itself reaffirmed, in accordance with the case-law of the Court of Justice (cases Telaustria — C 324/9, Coname — C 231/03 and ParkingBrixen — C 458/03), that although public administrations are not obliged to apply directives on the award of public contracts, they should nevertheless respect the principles of the EC Treaty as regards transparency. In view of all this, can the Commission say: 1. whether it is aware of the events described above and what action it intends to take; 2. whether the transactions comply with Community rules on competition and public procurement;