Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (27 June 2006) The Commission continues to follow the situation in the country closely. The Commission focuses not only on the political issue — human rights violations, including forced labour practices, and the lack of an inclusive process of transition towards a legitimate government — but also addresses the very bad humanitarian situation. The European Union has sharply condemned the attack on civilians http://www.eu2006.at/en/News/CFSP_Statements/May/0305Myanmar.html and, in line with the common position, will continue to exert pressure on the Government of Burma/Myanmar regarding the process of national reconciliation and transition. The Commission has also reacted quickly to the influx of refugees from Burma/Myanmar into Thailand, and is currently finalising an additional and significant contribution to help ensure that their basic needs are covered. The Commission has been supporting refugees from Burma in Thailand, as well as returnees and displaced persons inside the country, for more than a decade. Between 2003 and 2005, funding for these projects amounted to EUR 16 million inside Burma/Myanmar; in addition to humanitarian aid amounting to EUR 26.7 million for refugees from Burma/Myanmar in Thailand and another EUR 9 million from the budget line ‘Uprooted People’. Vulnerable populations in the bordering regions with China, Bangladesh and India, many of which are areas with ethnic minorities affected by conflicts, have also been given support. In 2006 alone, the Commission has funded humanitarian programmes worth EUR 6.3 million inside Burma/Myanmar. Almost 70 % of these funds are devoted to health and protection, with the remaining amounts being used for food, water and sanitation. In addition, the Commission plans to increase assistance to people surviving under extremely difficult circumstances in Burma/Myanmar. Today, Commission programmes cover mostly health, but they may be expanded in the near future to address education and livelihoods in order to prevent further pauperisation of an already impoverished population. All the projects help to develop links with local communities and help the continuing activities of civil society.