Herranz García, John Joseph McCartin, Juan Andrés Naranjo Escobar, Giovanni Pittella and Ralf Walter. SHORT JUSTIFICATION Content Following the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation which requires a basic act for the actions covered by the subsidies of former chapter A-30 (plus subsidies provided under some B lines), the Commission has presented seven proposals establishing action programmes. The subsidies have been grouped according to the articles of the Treaty they refer to. All of them will become multiannual programmes with a financial amount (reference amount for codecisions). Nevertheless, the rapporteur underlines that four proposals fall under the codecision procedure and three under the conciliation procedure. Concerning the timetable, the following declaration was agreed at the conciliation of 16 July: 'The European Parliament and the Council will attempt to finalise their respective positions in the relevant legislative procedures before the end of November 2003 , and to keep each other and the Commission informed of the progress of these works. The three institutions agree to convene a trialogue before the Council's second reading of the budget, with the objective to reach a common approach and, if possible, to finally adopt the legal bases before the end of the year 2003 .' The rapporteur therefore regrets the Commission's late adoption of this proposal, which was only at the end of May 2003, and draws attention to the possible difficulties of completing the procedure within the agreed timetable, not to mention possible difficulties during the conciliation procedure with Council. In view of a possible delay, the Commission in its Communication which accompanies the package of proposals to replace the current A-lines states the following: 'In the event of failure to achieve that objective, the Commission will propose transitional derogations enabling grants to be awarded in 2004, pending adoption of the basic acts'. Consequently, the rapporteur considers that the Commission should be prepared to put the transitional provisions in place, if needed. At its meeting of 25 September, the Conference of Presidents decided that article 162a) of the rules of procedure, enhanced Cupertino, should apply to all aspects resulting from the provisions of the Financial Regulation and that article 63a) would apply to the aspects relating to the financial framework. The rapporteur will have to look at the coherence of the proposals in close cooperation and the agreement with the specialised committees as required by this article. Moreover, the rapporteur cannot avoid mentioning that these proposals intend to give a legal response to an old contentious item in the EU budget and therefore is convinced that the responsibility of Parliament as a co-legislator, adopting a solid legal framework for the future, should prevail over the necessity of the limitation of a timetable. Contents of the proposals in respect of the provisions of the Financial Regulation The new Financial Regulation contains a specific title while ruling the scope, the awarding procedure, the payment and the implementation provisions of grants financed by the budget (title VI, articles 108 to 110 and articles 162 to 168 of the implementing rules). Article 110, paragraph 1 Grants shall be