undertakings the activities of which are subject to appropriate monitoring by the competent prudential-supervision authorities and which are subject of Council Directive 64/225/EEC of 25 February 1964 on the abolition of restrictions on freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services in respect of reinsurance and retrocession OJ 56, 4.4.1964, p. 878 . Directive as amended by the Act of Accession of Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom. , First Council Directive 73/239/EEC of 24 July 1973 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of direct insurance other than life assurance OJ L 228, 16.8.1973, p. 3. Directive as last amended by Directive 2002/87/EC . and First Council Directive 79/267/EEC of 5 March 1979 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of direct life assurance OJ L 63, 13.3.1979, p. 1. Directive as last amended by Directive 2002/87/EC . should be excluded. (10) Undertakings which do not provide services for third parties but the business of which consists in providing investment services solely for their parent undertakings, for their subsidiaries, or for other subsidiaries of their parent undertakings should not be covered by this Directive. (11) Persons who provide investment services only on an incidental basis in the course of professional activity should also be excluded from the scope of this Directive, provided that activity is regulated and the relevant rules do not prohibit the provision, on an incidental basis, of investment services. (12) Firms which provide investment services consisting exclusively in the administration of employee-participation schemes and which therefore do not provide investment services for third parties should not be covered by this Directive. (13) It is necessary to exclude from the scope of this Directive central banks and other bodies performing similar functions as well as public bodies charged with or intervening in the management of the public debt, which concept covers the investment thereof, with the exception of bodies that are partly or wholly State-owned, the role of which is commercial or linked to the acquisition of holdings. (14) It is also necessary to exclude from the scope of this Directive collective investment undertakings, whether or not coordinated at Community level, and the depositaries or managers of such undertakings, since they are subject to specific rules directly adapted to their activities. (15) Firms that provide the investment services covered by this Directive should be subject to authorisation by their home Member States in order to protect investors and the stability of the financial system. (16) The principles of mutual recognition and of home Member State supervision require that the Member States" competent authorities should not grant or should withdraw authorisation where factors such as the content of programmes of operations, the geographical distribution or the activities actually carried out indicate clearly that an investment firm has opted for the legal system of one Member State for the purpose of evading the stricter standards in force in another Member State within the territory of which it intends to carry out or does