Antolín Sánchez Presedo, Ivo Strejček Substitutes under Rule 178(2) present for the final vote 18.7.2005 OPINION of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality for the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on an EU approach to managing economic migration ( 2005/2059(INI) ) Draftswoman: Anna Záborská SUGGESTIONS The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality calls on the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: – having regard to its resolution of 15 January 2004 on the Communication from the Commission on immigration, integration and employment OJ C 92 E, 16.4.2004, p. 390. , A. whereas it should be the task of the European Union, in the interests of the managed migration of workers into the Community and of full employment, to develop a common migration policy in accordance with Community development policy and alongside the effective implementation of the right of freedom of movement of persons within the Community, B. whereas economic migration is only a part of the solution to the Community's demographic and economic difficulties; whereas, in order to meet the challenges of globalisation, efforts should be made to find new solutions in the field of economic policy and the labour market, notably in relation to the balance between professional and family life for women and men and equal pay for equal jobs, C. whereas women in many third countries are the victims of similar forms of discrimination, D. whereas women are a not insignificant and substantial majority of immigrants, including those of second and third generation, asylum seekers and illegal immigrants, E. whereas women are the victims of discrimination on the basis of both gender and origin, and whereas such discrimination also affects second- and third-generation immigrants, whatever their degree of integration, 1. Calls on the Commission to take greater account during implementation of the 'Community preference' principle of the specific situation of women on the European labour market, particularly in connection with new sources of jobs, so as to facilitate access by women to vacant posts; 2. Notes that legal women immigrants work mainly in grey areas of the economy and undeclared jobs (agriculture, catering, cleaning services, domestic work); calls on the Member States to ensure, by way of the bilateral labour agreements facilitating the admission of third-country nationals, or by other methods, that workers who are admitted work within a secure legal framework in the host countries and do not suffer discrimination, in accordance with Community legislation; considers that transforming undeclared jobs into legal employment is an essential factor in combating illegal economic migration, of which women are frequently the victim; 3. Calls on the Member States to implement measures enabling women who are already on the European labour market and who have an adequate level of basic education to take up vacant posts to undergo transition training; 4. Calls on the Commission, in the context of its obligation to draw up an annual statistical report on immigration with a statistical analysis of the main migration trends