and other travellers by applying the minimum quantitative limits specified in paragraph 1 only to travellers other than air travellers or sea ferry or cruise passengers . Justification The lower limits of tobacco products are primarily intended as a public health measure but there is a risk of tobacco smuggling by land crossing routes hence the need to safeguard this with a different approach according to means of travel. The addition of sea to air travel is to not unduly discriminate between sea and air travel over reasonable distances. Amendment 6 Article 10, paragraph 3 3. In addition to the exemption provided for in paragraph 1, Member States shall exempt from VAT and excise duty a total of 4 litres of still wine and 16 litres of beer. 3. In addition to the exemption provided for in paragraph 1, Member States shall exempt from VAT and excise duty a total of 8 litres of still wine and 16 litres of beer. Justification This amendment seeks to place wine and beer on an equal footing so that the quantities exempt from VAT and excise duty will be equivalent in terms of alcoholic content. Amendment 7 Article 11 Exemptions under Articles 9 or 10 shall not apply in the case of travellers under 17 years of age. Exemptions under Articles 9 or 10 shall not apply in the case of travellers under the age of eighteen . Justification The legal drinking age is 18 in most EU Member States and teenage drinking is a major social problem in the EU, which should be combated as a public health priority hence raising the age to 18. Amendment 8 Article 12 Member States shall exempt from VAT and excise duty, in the case of any one means of motor transport, the fuel contained in the tank and a quantity of fuel not exceeding 10 litres contained in a portable container, without prejudice to national provisions governing possession and transport of fuel. Member States shall exempt from VAT and excise duty a quantity of fuel not exceeding 10 litres contained in a portable container, transported in a motor vehicle without prejudice to national provisions governing possession and transport of fuel. Member States shall, however, have the right to monitor the rate of and take measures necessary to counteract petrol tourism for the purposes of tax avoidance in their border regions. Justification Many Member States bordering third countries face revenue reduction on account of personal petrol tourism. National budgetary revenue under VAT and excise duty headings could be sizeable. So at EU jurisdictional level the problem should be raised to secure the Member States the right to strictly monitor and assess the situation. For safety reasons, carrying fuel in a container when travelling by sea or air should not be allowed and hence not covered by the exemption from VAT and excise duty. Amendment 9 Article 14, paragraph 1, point (a) (a) persons resident in the frontier zone; deleted Justification This concept is discriminatory, hard to police and arbitrary. The Customs already have powers to confiscate goods, which