experience and profile of its members. I believe that the current composition of the Board encompasses a wide range of views, especially if account is taken of the requirements laid down in the Treaty on European Union and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank. Nevertheless, perhaps my experience and career background - set out in detail in the written replies to the questionnaire previously sent to me by the chairman of this committee - can bring a new and different element. In fact, I am a professor of economics with a relatively broad background in central banking. Yet I can equally call myself a central banker with extensive academic and research experience. I personally believe that these two facets can complement each other in a way that can bring great benefits. Monetary policy is both a science and an art. It combines methodological and scientific rigour with intuition and judgement moulded by experience. This judgement is given greater weight by the stamp of collegiate responsibility in the case of the independent central banks, as a result of the discussions and collective decision-making within their governing bodies. I think that both elements of my personal experience, as a central banker and an academic, offer a sound basis for fulfilling the tasks assigned by the Statute of the European System of Central Banks to the Executive Board of the European Central Bank. Let me now move on to a brief account of my views on the role of the European Central Bank. The Treaty on European Union stipulates that the primary objective of the Eurosystem is to maintain price stability in the euro area. This is an objective which can be described as a ‘public benefit’, bearing in mind the accumulating objective evidence concerning the social costs of instability and the experience of recent decades. The benefits of maintaining a low and stable inflation rate are well known. Price stability enhances the transparency of the mechanism for allocating resources in the competitive market; it minimises the interest rate risk premium, encouraging investment; it reduces monetary transaction costs; it alleviates the distortions generated by the tax system; and, among the other benefits it produces for a wealthy and cohesive society, it prevents arbitrary and undesirable redistribution of wealth and income. My assessment of the achievements in the field of price stability in the years since the introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999 is highly favourable. The success achieved by the definition of stability at reduced levels, though sufficient to accommodate measurement distortions, inflation differentials and deflationary risks, and the framing of a monetary policy strategy geared to the medium term, cannot be over-emphasised. Despite the shocks that have affected energy prices and some commodity prices, as well as the exchange rate, inflation forecasts have been firmly maintained at low levels in the region of 2%. This is the product of well-designed strategic planning, based on the independence needed to achieve the objective of stability and adopt decisions, the structured procedure needed for the analysis