Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 2 – point 2 Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA Article 4a – paragraph 1 a (new) 1a. If a European arrest warrant is issued for the purpose of executing a custodial sentence or detention order under the conditions set out in paragraph (1)(c) and the person concerned has not previously received any official information about the existence of the criminal proceedings against him or her, that person, when he or she is informed about the content of the European arrest warrant, may request a copy of the judgment before being surrendered. Immediately after having been informed of that request, the issuing judicial authority shall provide a copy of the judgment via the executing judicial authority to the person who made the request. If the judgment is rendered in a language which the person concerned does not understand, the issuing judicial authority via the executing judicial authority shall provide an extract from the judgment in a language which the person concerned understands. The provision of the judgment or an extract from the judgment to the person concerned shall be for information purposes only; it shall not be construed as constituting formal service of the judgment nor shall it activate any time-limits applicable for requesting a retrial or appeal. Amendment 18 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 2 – point 4 Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA Annex – box d – introductory part and points 1 and 2 (d) Indicate if the decision was rendered in absentia : (d) Indicate if the person appeared in person at the trial resulting in the decision : 1. ? No, it was not 1.? Yes, the person appeared in person at the trial resulting in the decision. 2. ? Yes, it was. If you have answered yes, please confirm that: 2. ? No, the person did not appear in person at the trial resulting in the decision. If you answered "no" to this question, please indicate if: Amendment 19 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 2 – point 4 Framework Decision 2002/584/JHA Annex – box d – point 2 - subpoint 2.1 2.1 the person was summoned in person or informed in accordance with the national law of the issuing Member State through a competent representative and in due time , of the scheduled date and place of the hearing which led to the decision rendered in absentia and informed about the fact that such a decision may be handed down in case the person does not appear for the trial 2.1 the person was directly summoned in person or by other means actually received official information in due time, in a language which he /she understood,