electoral observer missions being sent by the EU to monitor the various elections taking place in Rwanda following the Arusha agreements. She described to her fellow MEPs this Wednesday her experience of observing the presidential election of 25 August this year, which resulted in the re-election of the current President, Paul Kagame, with 95.05% of the votes. A constituent referendum was held on 26 May 2003 and legislative elections are planned for 29 September and 2 October. According to Parliament's observers, although the election campaign went off quietly, the fairness of the ballot can be questioned. In his capacity as candidate, Mr Kagame was able to use the resources of the state and hand out various rewards and payments, although this was formally prohibited by the electoral law and was not noticed by the electoral commission. Similarly, the observer mission noted that the outgoing president was omnipresent in the media and that coverage of the campaign on television and radio was biased in his favour. Cases of intimidation also occurred at the end of the campaign and one candidate was detained by the police every day for the whole month of August. On election day itself, irregularities were rife, with doctoring of electoral rolls and stuffing of ballot boxes. There is thus a long way to go before true democracy is established in Rwanda, even if much has already been accomplished, argued Colette Flesch. Nelly MAES (Greens/EFA, B), who was also a member of the delegation, said the electoral process did not merit the name "election". The ballot was more of a referendum for approving the transition. What the people of Rwanda had done was approve the establishment of peace in their country. The EU observer mission received its accreditation from the Rwandan authorities on 9 September and was able to resume its work with a view to the legislative elections only three days after the start of the election campaign. 10.09.2003 Committee on Development and Cooperation In the chair: Marieke SANDERS-TEN HOLTE (ELDR, NL) Press enquiries: Armelle Douaud- tel. (32-2) 28 43806, e-mail: deve-press@europarl.eu.int President of Benin issues plea for help but holds out glimmer of hope On Wednesday this week, the day on which the WTO Ministerial Conference opened in Cancun, the President of Benin, Mathieu KEREKOU, asked Parliament's Development Committee to support a plan to boost the cotton sector presented in June this year by Benin, Burkina Faso, Mali and Chad. With this plan, the signatories are calling for an end to subsidies to producers granted by the United States and the European Union. European production of cotton is concentrated in Spain and Greece. Mr Kerekou pointed out that over the last five years African cotton producing and exporting countries have seen their revenues fall by 31% even though production has increased by 14%. This is a disaster for these countries and their people. The authors of the plan want the crucial nature of cotton as a product for these producer countries to be recognised at the multilateral negotiations. They want measures to be adopted to offset losses caused