Preliminary answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission (23 September 2010) 1. The three most recent appointments at Director level in the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) fully met the requirements of the posts and OLAF’s needs. The officials who were acting Directors during the interim period were designated in accordance with the Commission’s rules on these matters. Those three officials also occupied head of unit posts while they were acting Directors. The decisions appointing the Directors have not been challenged by any appeal or formal complaint. 2. In its operational remit, OLAF enjoys independence from the Commission and any other EU institution, Office, Agency or Body as well as from the Member States. Consequently, all communication and information activities linked to OLAF’s operations and investigations are exercised with the same independence. Administratively this means that OLAF, unlike any other Directorate-General of the Commission, has its own Spokesperson function. Its media contacts are not channelled through the Spokespersons’ Service of the Commission. OLAF's communication with the media and the general public is based on respect for the rule of law, the confidentiality of investigations, and individual rights, in particular the presumption of innocence of the persons — natural and legal — under investigation. While OLAF's Spokesperson is in charge of any media contact regarding OLAF operational activities, the Commissioner's Spokesperson is responsible for other media contacts. 3. It is true that there have been more proceedings under Article 3 of Annex IX to the Staff Regulations and disciplinary proceedings over the last three years than in previous years. Thus: — In 2007, IDOC conducted 16 Article 3 proceedings, 6 of which gave rise to the initiation of disciplinary proceedings; 7 penalties, ranging from a reprimand to removal from post, were imposed that same year. — In 2008, 24 Article 3 proceedings took place, 15 of which gave rise to the initiation of disciplinary proceedings; 3 penalties, ranging from a warning to removal from post, were imposed that same year. — In 2009, IDOC conducted 41 Article 3 proceedings, 21 of which gave rise to the initiation of disciplinary proceedings; 30 disciplinary measures, ranging from a written warning to removal from post, were taken in 2009, including many which were the culmination of proceedings initiated in previous years. By way of comparison, between 2004 and the end of 2006 the Appointing Authority imposed a total of 11 disciplinary penalties. None of the disciplinary proceedings initiated during the last three years concerned an OLAF official. 4-6 and Part 8. The Commission is gathering the information requested to respond to questions 4 to 6 and to part of question 8 as this involves a significant amount of research. When this information has been obtained, it will be communicated to the Honourable Member in a complementary reply. 7. The post of anti-corruption adviser was created on 1 September 2006 and has been occupied in an acting capacity by a temporary AD official since then. The average annual cost for a temporary official is EUR 122 000. The figure includes salary, building, office and other