of discretion: ‘… may provide that … shall be precluded …’ Article 5(1) of Council Directive 94/80/EC of December 1994 laying down detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in municipal elections by citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals, OJ L 368 of 31/12/1994, p.38. . Finally, and in apparent breach of the 1976 Act, Article 4 of the 1993 Directive lays down categorically that: ‘No one may stand as a candidate in more than one Member State at the same election.’ Such a prohibition goes beyond what is strictly necessary to ensure that an EU citizen stands as a candidate under the same conditions as the state of residence ‘imposes by law on its own nationals’ (Article 3(b)). This prohibition is disproportionate because a member state may very well take the view that it has no objection under its national law to multiple candidatures. Indeed, many member states permit multiple candidatures within their own state. (Needless to add, a candidate successful in being elected in more than one constituency has to choose the place for which he or she will sit in the Parliament.) In short, the Parliament, in being consulted about this Directive, should pose two questions: 1. Why should being deprived of the right to vote or stand as a candidate in one member state automatically deprive the citizen of the same rights in another? 2. Why should a candidate not be able to stand in more than one member state at the same time? 6.6.2007 OPINION of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 93/109/EC of 6 December 1993 as regards certain detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals ( COM(2006)0791 – C6‑0066/2007 – 2006/0277(CNS) ) Draftsman: Ignasi Guardans Cambó SHORT JUSTIFICATION I. Background to the Commission proposal Under Article 19 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, ‘ every citizen of the Union residing in a Member State of which he is not a national shall have the right to vote and to stand as a candidate at European Parliament elections in the Member State in which he resides, under the same conditions as nationals of that State’ . The detailed arrangements for the exercise of the right to vote and stand as a candidate are laid down in Directive 93/109/CE. The objectives of this Directive are to ensure the participation of all citizens of the Union in European Parliament elections, to encourage all citizens to participate in these elections, and to guarantee the same electoral rights for all citizens residing in the same country (nationals or non-nationals) SEC(2006)1647 . . The Directive states that no citizen may vote more than once or stand as a candidate in more than one Member