the political agreement of 15 September 2008 on the principle of forming a government of national unity with a view to ending the crisis, achieved despite the mediation of President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa; H. whereas behind the political crisis and health emergency, there is a worsening human rights crisis in Zimbabwe, with the most recent development being the unprecedented spate of abduction of human rights defenders - Jestina Mukoko's disappearance is part of a pattern of harassment and intimidation of human rights activists; placeI. whereas a number of abductions took place in less than one week, were carried out by people suspected of working on behalf of the Zimbabwean authorities; J. whereas the demand for them to be brought to court was not responded to or respected, and their whereabouts remain unknown; K. whereas “The Elders”, comprising former UN Secretary- General Kofi Annan, former President Jimmy Carter and advocate for women's and children's rights Graça Machel, have been refused entry into Zimbabwe; L. whereas a number of African leaders, including Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Botswana’s President, Khama, and Kenya’s prime minister, Raila Odinga, called for Mr. Mugabe to step down; M. whereas the GAERC in its conclusions of 8 December 2008 decided to add to the list of people subject to EU targeted sanctions, N. whereas, according to UNICEF, only an estimated 40 per cent of the country's teachers are working, with only a third of pupils reporting for classes; whereas teachers like doctors and nurses have been on periodic strikes and have been violently repressed by police for exercising their rights to peaceful demonstration; O. whereas placeplaceZimbabwe is close to meeting the criteria for invoking the declaration endorsed at the UN in 2005 that there is an international “responsibility to protect” people facing crimes against humanity; 1. Expresses its deep concern at the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Zimbabwe as a result of the cholera epidemic, hunger and the inability or unwillingness of the government to control the crisis; calls on the Council and the Commission to reaffirm their commitment to the Zimbabwean people through a substantial and long-standing program of humanitarian aid; 2. Notes that the EU has just released EUR 10 million in aid and calls on the Zimbabwean authorities to lift all restrictions on humanitarian aid agencies and to ensure that humanitarian aid can be delivered in accordance with the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence; 3. Strongly supports the efforts of The Elders delegation comprising former UN Secretary- General Kofi Annan, former US President Jimmy Carter and advocate for women's and children's rights Graça Machel to ease Zimbabwe's humanitarian crisis; considers totally unacceptable that the members of this group were denied an entry visa by Mugabe's regime, since they wished to use their influence to increase the immediate and longer-term flow of assistance to the country to stop the terrible suffering of the people of Zimbabwe; 4. Firmly condemns continuing violence of the government against members and supporters of the MDC; is outraged by the spate of recent abductions of human rights defenders and calls for