the priorities which we fully support: more free market, less regulation, more freedom in the economy, more opening to free trade." Mr. Kaminski was also interested in the promise of the Swedish Presidency to look to Europe's neighbours and the possibility of enlargement as, "we must not forget that behind our Eastern borders are countries which have the right to participate in this area of democracy and wealth." He finished by saying that "there is only one issue on which we do not agree with you - that is the issue of the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon...one should remember that in a democratic referendum, the Irish people rejected that treaty. Now, with respect for democracy we should listen to the voice of the Irish people." Speaking on behalf of the GUE/NGL group, Lothar BISKY (DE) expressed the need for transparency to be applied to dealing with the current economic crisis, stating that "the causes of the crisis are always claimed to have come from the distant US or from certain banks and bankers...and that EU heads of state have nothing to do with the crisis, but I think that transparency also means talking about the failures of policy that actually contributed to the crisis in the first place." Mr Bisky also spoke of his support for the Swedish Presidency's aim to further harmonise asylum law, but warned that "in our strictly monitored external borders, especially in the Mediterranean, thousands of people are dying as they seek refugee from poverty, wars and natural disasters." For Mr. Bisky and the GUE, this is "something that requires a new more decent approach to immigrants, and we also really need to look at the causes of this exodus." "We must be more in tune with the wishes of our voters", for many of whom the big issues are jobs and crime, according to Francesco Enrico SPERONI (EFD, IT) who spoke on behalf of the Europe of Freedom and Democracy group. How can we "overcome the lack of trust" demonstrated by the "low turnout" at the elections, he asked. We must "be clear why there is a need for the EU" so that "the EU is not endured but is seen as an opportunity for its citizens". "The Dutch people think the enlargement of the EU has gone too far", was the view of Barry MADLENER (NI, NL), a non-aligned MEP who is a member of the Dutch Party for Freedom. He stressed that the Dutch had rejected the European Constitution, now "99% reproduced in the Lisbon Treaty". He criticised the cost of the "Strasbourg circus", said that Turkey should not become an EU member and hoped that the Irish people would "have the courage to say No" in their second referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. British and Irish speakers Vicky FORD (ECR, UK) congratulated the Swedish Presidency for prioritising economic challenges. Regulatory clarity is vital, she said. These industries are, as we all know, global industries. The capital, the talent and the individual enterprises are highly fluid. They need workable and defined legislative timetables,