working document is structured as follows. Part I sets out the legal framework. Part II deals with PPs and PAs in the 2007 budget procedure. Part III looks at PPs and PAs from 2006 budget and earlier procedures. The Annex provides an overview of the figures for current and proposed PPs and PAs, taking into account the Council's draft budget 2007. Parts I and II are prepared under the authority of James Elles, general rapporteur for the 2007 budget. Part III is prepared under the authority of Gianni Pittella, general rapporteur for the 2006 budget I - The legal framework for pilot projects and preparatory actions 3. PPs and PAs are an important tool for the Parliament to set out its political priorities and for introducing new initiatives outside existing legislative programmes. For PPs and PAs, the relevant budgetary decision typically precedes and may later give rise to the associated legislative decision, reversing the usual order. Article 49 of the Financial Regulation of 25 June 2002 sets out the exceptions to the general budgetary requirement that a basic act must be adopted before the budget appropriations entered for any Community action may be used. The sections of article 49 concerning PPs and PAs are point 2, letters (a) and (b) respectively. 4. The Financial Regulation defines a pilot project as a scheme " of an experimental nature designed to test the feasibility of an action and its usefulness ". The Financial Regulation further states that " commitment appropriations may be entered in the budget for only two successive financial years ". 5. Preparatory actions are defined by the Financial Regulation as actions " designed to prepare proposals with a view to the adoption of future actions ... The relevant commitment appropriations may be entered in the budget for only three successive years at most. The legislative procedure must be completed before the end of the third financial year ". 6. Article 49 of the Financial Regulation is based upon and fully in line with article 37 of the inter-institutional agreement (IIA) of 6 May 1999, which further set a maximum annual amount of € 32 million for PPs and € 75 million for PAs. However, the 2007 budget is being prepared in the context of the new IIA of 17 May 2006. The latter agreement formally enters into force on 1 January 2007, but this working document is prepared on the basis that the IIA of 17 May 2006 sets the relevant ceilings for PPs and PAs for the 2007 budget procedure. In Annex II, section D of the 2006 IIA " the institutions agree to limit the total amount of appropriations for pilot schemes to € 40 million in any budget year. They also agree to limit to € 50 million the total amount of appropriations for new preparatory actions in any budget year, and to € 100 million the total amount of appropriations actually committed for preparatory actions ". 7. With regard to the agreement of new PPs and PAs in the annual budget procedure, Section D of annex II