Answer given by Ms Vassiliou on behalf of the Commission (13 April 2010) The Commission would like to inform the Honourable Member that a distinction needs to be made between recognition of professional qualifications for carrying out a professional activity and academic recognition for educational purposes. As for professional qualifications, Directive 2005/36/EC Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications, OJ L 255, 30.9.2005. on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications (the ‘Professional Qualifications Directive’) lays down a general system for the recognition of qualifications, which applies to all ‘regulated professions’, i.e. the professions for which a Member State requires a qualification for the profession to be practised on its territory. Apart from this, the directive has specific provisions for the harmonisation of training requirements allowing for automatic recognition of certain professions, mainly, but not exclusively, in the health sector (doctors, nurses, dentists, midwives, veterinary surgeons, pharmacists, but also architects). In order for a citizen to know if his or her profession is considered ‘regulated’ by the host Member State, citizens may request further assistance from the contact point http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/qualifications/contactpoints/ in that Member State, which is responsible for providing general information on recognition of professional qualifications. Citizens can also refer to the Database of regulated professions in the EU Member States, EEA countries and Switzerland http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/qualifications/regprof/index.cfm?fuseaction=home.welcome . If a profession is not considered regulated by the host Member State, no formality is required and there is no need to apply for recognition of professional qualifications. In this case, the value to be attributed to the qualification depends on the situation of the employment market and on the way this market behaves. The specific problem referred to by the Honourable Member does not appear to be one of academic recognition, i.e. recognition of a diploma for access to further studies. Since Member States are responsible for the content and organisation of their education systems, academic recognition is a national competence. However, a number of measures taken at European level to give guidance on the equivalence of academic qualifications may also be useful for employment purposes. The European Union has encouraged the Member States to put in place a network of centres for academic recognition (NARIC), which can often help to solve academic recognition problems through direct contacts between the centres of the countries concerned. These centres help and advise in regulating title recognition, and provide guidance (also to prospective employers) concerning the academic recognition of diplomas and periods of study undertaken in other states See annex (sent directly to the Honourable Member and Parliament’s Secretariat) for contact details of the UK and Lithuanian NARICs. . They are closely cooperating with contact points set up under the Professional Qualifications Directive; in some Member States NARIC and the contact point are one organisation. In addition to this, the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning Recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2008 on the establishment of the European Qualifications Framework for lifelong learning (2008/C 111/01), see http://ec.europa.eu/education/lifelong-learning-policy/doc44_en.htm (EQF),