required, both in qualitative and quantitative terms, to fulfil its statutory functions and tasks. As a prospective member of the Executive Board I will certainly attach great importance to these aspects. D. Democratic accountability 14. How do you see the distinction between the ECB independence and its accountability and what steps do you consider should be taken to ensure democratic accountability? Independence and accountability are two sides of the same coin. The independence of the ECB – as enshrined in the Treaty – is crucial for the success of the single monetary policy. It enables monetary policy decisions to be separated from the political cycle and ensures that the objective of price stability is consistently pursued. As such, this principle is well established and fully recognised not only by politicians, but also by the citizens of our countries. However, independence does not mean that the ECB, or the Eurosystem for that matter, can do whatever it wishes. Independence is complemented by the principle of accountability. The citizens, or elected representatives on their behalf, are entitled to follow and to scrutinise ex post the decisions taken by the ECB in the fulfilment of its tasks. This obligation to explain and justify monetary policy decisions is an important element in legitimising the ECB’s independence. In order to enable the European Parliament in particular, but also the public at large, to assess the ECB’s performance against its tasks, the ECB has implemented several steps which even go beyond the statutory reporting requirements. Apart from the President presenting the ECB’s annual reports to the plenary session of the European Parliament, the quarterly testimonies of the ECB President before the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee are a particularly important element of the ECB’s accountability. At these meetings the ECB President explains the ECB’s policy decisions and thereafter answers questions posed by members of the Committee. Other members of the Executive Board of the ECB also appear before the Committee. Furthermore, the ECB answers – on a voluntary basis – questions from MEPs in writing. In addition to the direct communication with the political decision-making bodies at the European level, the ECB pursues a transparent communication policy vis-à-vis the public at large. Immediately after the Governing Council’s decision on the monetary policy stance, the President addresses the public by means of a press conference in which he explains the rationale behind the decisions taken. These explanations are supplemented in greater detail by the ECB’s Monthly Bulletin. For their part, the members of the Governing Council, who are also national central bank governors, regularly explain the decisions taken by the ECB at the national level. Although not directly linked to the principle of accountability, it is noted that the ECB has contacts with all relevant policy institutions involved in the European political process. The ECB President and another Executive Board member regularly participate in the meetings of the Eurogroup and ECOFIN Council and, in return, the President of the ECOFIN Council and a member of the European Commission are entitled to attend the meetings of the Governing Council of