the claims Regulation and also in the administrative guidelines published on EFSA's website. EFSA has also organised a series of open workshops to explain how the assessment on claims is performed as well as answering on its website frequently asked questions regarding its assessment of claims. 5. EFSA's founding Regulation provides for a high level of transparency and requires that the agendas, minutes and scientific opinions of the EFSA Scientifc Committe and Panels are made public. All agendas, minutes and scientific opinions are easily accessible on EFSA's website. 6. It should be noted that EFSA provides scientific opinions to the Commission and does not take decisions on claims. Article 16(6) of the regulation provides for the possibility for the applicant and members of the public to submit to the Commission comments on the EFSA opinions. The Commission and Member States take such comments into account when deciding on the acceptability of the health claims assessed by EFSA. If the comments relate to scientific aspects of the EFSA opinions, the Commission forwards the comments to EFSA for its consideration. Finally, it should be mentioned that it follows from the general principles laid down in Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, pp. 1–24. and by the specific provision laid down in Article 19(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 that claims for which EFSA already provided advice, may be re-assessed by EFSA, if it concludes, that new scientific elements justifying such re-examination have been presented. 7. All comments received by the Commission pursuant to Article 16(6) of the regulation are made publicly available on the website of DG SANCO together with the responses from EFSA http://ec.europa.eu/food/food/labellingnutrition/claims/health_claims_en.htm . The only exemption to this is if the submitter of the comments claims confidentiality for the comments or parts thereof and that is considered justified in accordance with relevant EC law Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 and Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. .