with the procedure laid down in Operative Provision 3 – has refused authorisation but has subsequently changed its mind within a period of one year is obliged to notify the other Member States of that decision during a common consultation procedure; 16. Welcomes the work being done in COARM on working towards common standards of end-user certification; 17. Believes that a comprehensive system of end-user controls should incorporate pre-export checks, an effective system of end-user certification and post export monitoring and follow up procedures; 18. Believes that consideration should be given as to how Member States could best share information on problems with end-users; 19. Welcomes the Council's commitment to investigate licensed production overseas; hopes that measures will be taken to ensure that the implications for diversion and misuse are considered when licenses for overseas production are decided; 20. Believes it is essential to ensure maximum involvement of candidate countries in the information exchange and consultation process of the Code of Conduct, and calls upon candidate countries to abide by the principles of the EU Code of Conduct, to enact the necessary legislation and to implement measures for proper application of the Code; 21. Calls upon Member States to seek to re-engage the U.S.A. in the process of developing an international Code of Conduct; 22. Calls on Member States to continue to encourage other arms exporting countries to subscribe to the principles of the EU Code in particular the countries of the Western CIS; 23. Recognises the importance of work being done in COARM on developing legal controls on electronic transfers of the software and technology associated with the items on the common list; 24. Reiterates its view that the Code of Conduct should be legally binding on Member States; 25. Welcomes, with that in mind, the stated intention of the Belgian Government shortly to incorporate into its national legislation the provisions of the European Union Code of Conduct on Arms Exports and calls on the other Member States to do likewise; 26. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the parliaments and governments of the Member States and of the third countries which have agreed to align themselves with the principles of the EU Code of Conduct.