need for harmonisation of national legislation on the conditions for admission and residence of third-country nationals, to be based on a common evaluation both of economic and demographic trends within the Union and of the situation in countries of origin. The European Council accordingly asked the Council rapidly to adopt decisions on the basis of Commission proposals. Those decisions were to take account not only of the absorption capacity of each Member State but also their historical and cultural links with countries of origin. (4) The European Council, at its special meeting in Tampere on 15 and 16 October 1999, and in particular in point 20 of the Conclusions thereof, acknowledged the need for harmonisation of national legislation on the conditions for admission and residence of third-country nationals, to be based on a common evaluation both of economic and demographic trends within the Union and of the situation in countries of origin. The European Council accordingly asked the Council rapidly to adopt decisions on the basis of Commission proposals. Those decisions were to take account not only of the absorption capacity of each Member State but also their historical and cultural links with countries of origin. Amendment 7 Recital 6 (6) The European Council, at its special meeting in Tampere on 15th and 16 th October 1999, stated that the European Union should ensure fair treatment of third-country nationals residing lawfully on the territory of the Member States and that a more vigorous integration policy should aim at granting them rights and obligations comparable to those of citizens of the European Union. (6) The European Council, at its special meeting in Tampere on 15 and 16 October 1999, and in particular in point 18 of the Conclusions thereof, stated that the European Union should ensure fair treatment of third-country nationals residing lawfully on the territory of the Member States and that a more vigorous integration policy should aim at granting them rights and obligations comparable to those of citizens of the European Union. Amendment 8 Recital 7 (7) The Laeken European Council on 14 and 15 December 2001 reaffirmed its commitment to the policy guidelines and objectives defined at Tampere and noted that there was a need for new impetus and guidelines to make up for delays in some areas. It confirmed that a genuine common policy on immigration implied the establishment of common standards on procedures for family reunification and called on the Commission to present a new amended proposal. (7) The Laeken European Council on 14 and 15 December 2001 reaffirmed its commitment to the policy guidelines and objectives defined at Tampere and noted that there was a need for new impetus and guidelines to make up for delays in some areas. It confirmed , in particular in point 40 of its Conclusions, that a genuine common policy on asylum and immigration implied the establishment of common standards on procedures for asylum, reception and family reunification and called on the Commission to present a new amended proposal. Amendment 9 Recital 7a (new) (7a) The Council should adopt as rapidly as