17 December 2002 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the European Council report and Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Cecilia Malmström and Jules Maaten on behalf of the ELDR Group on the outcome of the European Council meeting on 12 and 13 December 2002 in Copenhagen European Parliament resolution on the outcome of the European Council meeting on 12 and 13 December 2002 in Copenhagen The European Parliament, – having regard to the Presidency conclusions of the Copenhagen European Council on 12 and 13 December 2002 and the European Council report and Commission statement in plenary on this issue, I. Enlargement 1. Welcomes the unprecedented and historic milestone represented by the conclusion of the accession negotiations with Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia, which allows these States to be welcomed as members from 1 May 2004; 2. Will carefully scrutinise the financial consequences of enlargement and hopes they will provide a solid basis for the integration of ten new Member States and safeguard the effective functioning of the enlarged Union, while ensuring the continued functioning of the internal market as well as the various EU policies, without prejudging future reform, notably the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy; 3. Welcomes the decision to monitor the commitments undertaken up to accession, giving the necessary reassurance to current Member States. Calls for the transformation of the accession monitoring process into a system of ‘peer review’, whereby all Member States would be involved in a constructively critical evaluation of their respect for matters such as the democratic accountability and integrity of public administration, non‑discrimination, civil liberties and the rule of law. Endorses also the commitment to continue the surveillance of progress with regard to economic, budgetary and structural policies; 4. Endorses all efforts directed at completing the drafting of the Accession Treaties so that they can be submitted to the Commission for its opinion and then to the European Parliament for its assent, and to the Council with a view to signing the Treaty in Athens on 16 April 2003; 5. Notes that the Accession Treaty will stipulate that Commissioners from the new Member States will join the current Commission as from the day of accession on 1 May 2004. Notes furthermore that after the nomination of a new President of the Commission a newly elected European Parliament will approve a new Commission, which should take office on 1 November 2004; 6. Welcomes the commitment to the necessary consultations with the European Parliament on these matters and notes that they should be concluded by the end of January 2003, guaranteeing the full participation of the new Member States in the institutional framework of the Union; 7. Welcomes the fact that the new Member States will participate fully in the next Intergovernmental Conference and that the accession calendar is to be without prejudice to the timing of the conclusion of the IGC; 8. Strongly encourages the Member States and candidate countries to endorse the necessary steps to reform the institutional