Answer given by Mr Frattini on behalf of the Commission (6 February 2008) The Commission is actively engaged in achieving the highest possible standards concerning the detection of nuclear materials at the external borders of the European Union. This is being done with the full participation and cooperation of the Member States and of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). All civil nuclear materials within the EU are subject to Euratom Safeguards. Slovakia promptly informed the Commission of the seizure, and the Commission is providing technical assistance to Slovakia regarding the forensic analysis of the seized material. Incidents of this nature are always subject to restrictions on exchange of information owing to the accompanying criminal investigations. One of the principal means of international exchange of information on trafficking incidents is the IAEA's Illicit Trafficking Database Programme. All Member States are members of this Programme. More generally, the Commission through its Joint Research Centre (JRC) is supporting CIS countries (Commonwealth of Independent States) in developing, enhancing and upgrading their capabilities in the prevention, detection and response to illicit trafficking in nuclear and radioactive materials. In the pre-accession period, the JRC developed close cooperation with candidate countries in the area of combating illicit trafficking. This comprised the development of a national response plan to illicit incidents involving nuclear material, the provision of measurement equipment, training at different levels, supporting exercises, and the joint nuclear forensic investigation of nuclear material in the laboratories of the JRC. Given the size of the geographical area to be covered and the limited resources available, international coordination between major contributors was addressed at an early stage, in particular through the creation in autumn 2005 of an ad‑hoc Border Monitoring Working Group under the auspices of the IAEA in which the IAEA, the Commission, the European Council Secretariat General and the United States Department of Energy (DoE) share all relevant information.