WRITTEN QUESTION E-0999/08 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (27 February 2008) Subject: Unexpected payment obligations which are hard to revoke, mostly affecting young mobile phone users as a result of international offers of ‘free’ ring tones 1. Is the Commission aware that services are being offered under the name of ‘Boltblue’ to mobile phone users in the UK, Ireland, the Netherlands and Australia, and soon in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, which lead to customers being surprised by financial obligations which turn out to be much higher than they expected? 2. Does the Commission consider that the conditions, which are printed at the bottom of the website http://www.boltblue.com/specialoffer/26/?c=googleuk01sp&gclid=CJeRpJeHlpACFR4bZwodKS6wnw in hard-to-read dark grey type on a black background, are such as to inform users adequately, given that users with 15‑inch monitors will not initially see them? 3. Is the Commission aware that a large number of Boltblue customers are unhappy because, after entering their phone number and the password they were subsequently sent, they received six text messages costing them a total of GBP 15 (some EUR 20) without requesting these messages or explicitly giving their consent to the conditions? 4. Does the Commission know that, although Boltblue’s customers have to be 16 or over, it advertises on games sites heavily frequented by under-16s, and thus gives the impression that this is an attractive offer for ‘free ring tones’? 5. Is the Commission aware that complaints from customers or their parents can only be lodged by letter to the head office in London, which could give rise to language barriers and entails extra costs and that, if no answer is received, errors are hard to correct in time? 6. Does any EU protection exist in such cases ensuring the right of the consumer to revoke his or her purchase of a product within 7 days on the model of the British ‘Distance Selling Act’ or the Dutch ‘Colportagewet’ [Commercial Canvassing Act]? 7. What possibilities does the Commission see for protecting the citizens of EU Member States from Internet traders who charge heavily for text messages which customers have not specifically requested? 8. Does the Commission see any possibility in order to prevent abuses, save many customers an unpleasant surprise, and perhaps also rapidly compensate for any remaining errors of introducing a legal obligation enabling customers of such firms to claim their money back if the firm cannot prove that the customer requested each separate text message?