Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (10 August 2010) The Commission is aware of the health problems affecting bees. However, scientific studies have not been able to determine the exact cause or the extent of the increased bee mortalities observed in Europe and elsewhere in recent years. A recent EFSA (European Food Safety Agency — Parma, Italy) study http://www.efsa.europa.eu/it/scdocs/doc/27e.pdf suggests that the cause is multifactorial. Factors that have been considered are bee diseases and pests, pesticide poisoning, and stress linked to changes in nutrition and climatic conditions. None of these factors has been identified as the key one. Under these circumstances, it is not possible to ensure the implementation of appropriate measures to reduce the losses. It is also impossible to quantify the negative effect of plant protection products on bee health and to establish whether it would be appropriate to foresee mechanisms for compensation of beekeepers. However, it should be noted that the effects of pesticides on bees are assessed prior to approval and appropriate risk mitigation measures, if required, are imposed. In the event that the Commission becomes aware of adverse effects due to the use of pesticides, further risk mitigation measures can be taken. This has been recently the case for some insecticides, where accidental releases occurred during the sowing of treated seeds. Following the outcome of the EFSA study, the Commission has launched a number of initiatives to address the specific concerns of the beekeeping sector, including the appointment of an EU reference laboratory for bee health. This laboratory is expected to become operational in 2011. With the assistance of this laboratory, the Commission intends to design a pilot plan for bee health surveillance in order to determine more precisely the entity of the colony losses and collect more data about the possible causes. In the 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP7, 2007‑13), a project has started in March 2010 with the aim of quantifying the impact of interactions between parasites, pathogens and pesticides on honeybee mortality http://www.bee-doc.eu . Further information on the actions undertaken by the Commission to tackle the problems affecting the bee sector has been provided in the reply to previous Written Question E‑4443/10 by Mr Romeva i Rueda http://www.europarl.europa.eu/QP-WEB/application/home.do?language=EN .