(for Generoso Andria), José Javier Pomés Ruiz (for José Manuel García-Margallo y Marfil), Ieke van den Burg (for Pervenche Berès), Simon Francis Murphy (for Mary Honeyball). The report was tabled on 17 March 2004. DRAFT EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT LEGISLATIVE RESOLUTION on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on the compilation of quarterly non-financial accounts by institutional sector ( COM(2003) 789 – C5‑0645/2003 – 2003/0296(COD)) (Codecision procedure: first reading) The European Parliament , – having regard to the Commission proposal to the European Parliament and the Council ( COM(2003) 789 ) Not yet published in OJ. , – having regard to Articles 251(2) and 285 of the EC Treaty, pursuant to which the Commission submitted the proposal to Parliament (C5‑0645/2003), – having regard to Rule 67 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs (A5‑0151/2004), 1. Approves the Commission proposal as amended; 2. Calls on the Commission to refer the matter to Parliament again if it intends to amend the proposal substantially or replace it with another text; 3. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and Commission. Text proposed by the Commission Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 5 (5) The compilation of European accounts by institutional sector, in accordance with the principles of the European System of national and regional Accounts in the Community, requires the transmission of quarterly national accounts by institutional sector of the Member States. However, the European accounts must reflect the economy of the European area as a whole and may differ from the simple aggregation of Member States' accounts. In particular, the objective is to take account of the transactions of the Institutions and bodies of the European Union , when these are resident in the European area concerned. (5) The compilation of European accounts by institutional sector, in accordance with the principles of the European System of national and regional Accounts in the Community, requires the transmission of quarterly national accounts by institutional sector of the Member States. However, the European accounts must reflect the economy of the European area as a whole and may differ from the simple aggregation of Member States' accounts. In particular, the objective is to take account of the transactions of the Institutions and bodies of the European Union in the accounts of the area concerned (the European Union or the euro-zone, whichever is applicable) . EXPLANATORY STATEMENT 1. Political context With the adoption of the single currency in the euro-zone and the increased coordination of the macro-economic policies of the Member States of the European Union, overcoming the deficiencies in the European statistical system concerning quarterly financial accounts has become a key priority. Currently, the quarterly accounts available at European level cover the economy as a whole, with no possibility of distinguishing between the various economic sectors – households, companies and government. However, analysing the behaviour of the various economic operators is of the greatest importance for economic analysis and monetary policy. In the United States, for example, the Federal Reserve has a