Answer given by Mr Barrot on behalf of the Commission (15 November 2006) On 4 October 2006, the Commission adopted additional rules on aviation security to address the newly-identified threat coming from liquid explosives. The new rules: — cover the quantities of liquids that may be carried by a passenger in their hand luggage or on their person. The term ‘liquids’ will apply widely to include gels, pastes, lotions, liquid/solid mixtures and the contents of pressurised containers, e.g. toothpaste, hair gel, drinks, soups, syrups, perfume, shaving foam, aerosols and other items of similar consistency; — limit the individual quantities of liquids allowed to be carried by passengers to 100 millilitres (ml) per container; — require that all containers fit in one transparent re-sealable plastic bag of a maximum size of 1 litre; — require passengers to present the plastic bag at security checkpoints. Additional, complementary requirements designed to make the task of airport security staff easier in detecting prohibited articles include: — limiting the size of cabin baggage allowed to a maximum of 56 centimetres (cm) x 45 cm x 25 cm, to be applied six months after entry into force of this regulation; — requiring passengers to remove coats and jackets at security checkpoints; — requiring that laptops and large electrical items are removed from bags at security checkpoints. Specific exemptions on the quantitative limits will be permitted for liquid medicines and items of special dietary need, including baby foods. Similarly, possibilities of some exemptions on the maximum size of hand luggage will also be permitted e.g. for musical instruments, push chairs, etc. The new rules will still permit passengers — including transfer passengers — to buy larger quantities of liquids at EU airport shops beyond the point where boarding passes are controlled under the condition that the liquids are sold in sealed bags that are not opened prior to passing through security checkpoints. Existing possibilities to transport liquids in checked baggage are unchanged by the new rules. In the view of the Commission, the new rules strike a fair balance between addressing the new threat posed by the type of liquid explosives discovered by the United Kingdom (UK) authorities in August 2006, whilst still allowing passengers reasonable quantities of liquids in their hand luggage and permitting passengers to enjoy the shopping experience at EU airport shops. The rules will be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure their effectiveness and workability.