risks, I. whereas the present economic crisis is further hampering investment in energy infrastructure, J. whereas notwithstanding that the Commission's scenario foresees the decrease of demand of conventional sources in the next two decades, Europe needs to support all planned investments in new import energy infrastructure; whereas this will guarantee a safe transition to the new European energy system expected to be in place by 2020, K. whereas from 2030, in order to alleviate the major risk of fossil fuel energy shortages, the Union will have to have developed and programmed new competitive, sustainable, low CO2 energy technologies, while having significantly reduced its energy consumption, L. whereas the Union urgently needs to develop major network investments and to complete the internal energy market, and whereas forward-looking initiatives, such as the European transmission system operator and the establishment of a single European gas network, should be encouraged, M. whereas the energy sector and investments in energy infrastructure need a stable regulatory framework and a closer cooperation between the national regulators, N. whereas the development of energy networks is essential for improving security of supply, which must figure prominently among European energy policy priorities, O. whereas the electricity and gas sectors need a stable and predictable regulatory framework, making it necessary to confer strong powers on the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Agency) so as to contribute to the harmonisation of national regulatory frameworks and to avoid the uncertainty that might result from the comitology procedure, P. whereas to contribute to security of supply objectives, the conventional indigenous energy resources of the Union must be exploited in Member States where they are available in compliance with national and the Community environmental legislation, 1. Calls on Member States to regard this strategic energy review as a basis for implementing an energy policy for Europe and setting an ambitious action plan for 2010 - 2012; 2. Reaffirms the threefold objective set for 2020 of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, and 30% in the case of an international agreement, reducing energy consumption by at least 20% and attaining at least a 20% share for renewables in final energy consumption; calls on the European Union and Member States to become the most energy-efficient economy in order to actively contribute to the achievement of the 2°C climate objective; calls on the European Union and the Member States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 80 % by 2050; calls on the Commission, in consultation with stakeholders, to draw up possible energy scenarios, illustrating ways in which these objectives may be reached and setting out the underlying technical and economic hypotheses; 3. Strongly believes that reducing energy consumption is the absolute priority with a view to achieving sustainable development, innovation, job creation and competitiveness objectives and is also a very effective and inexpensive way of improving energy security; 4. Calls on the Commission and Member States to make the 20% energy saving target by 2020 legally binding on Member States and to propose and implement consistent measures to secure its achievement; 5. Calls on the European