in a Member State, participating in road-transport activities covered by Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 or, failing that, by the AETR Agreement. 1. This Directive shall apply to mobile workers employed by undertakings established in a Member State, participating in road-transport activities covered by Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 or, failing that, by the AETR Agreement and to self-employed drivers established in a Member State . By ……….*, the Commission shall submit an assessment of the consequences of the temporary exclusion of self-employed drivers to the European Parliament and to the Council. The assessment shall analyse in particular the effects of the exclusion of self-employed drivers on road safety, on conditions of competition, on the structure of the profession and on social aspects. Depending on the outcome of that analysis, the Commission will propose if appropriate conditions under which this Directive will apply to self-employed drivers, the definition of which will have to be made clear, at the latest on .......... ** . _______________ * Five years after the entry into force of this Directive. ** Six years after the entry into force of this Directive. This Directive shall not, however, apply to self-employed drivers until three years after the deadline for transposition of the Directive by Member States fixed by Article 14. Amendment 5 Article 2, paragraph 4 a (new) 4a. The Commission shall present no later than one year after this Directive enters into force a proposal for revision of Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 which will broaden the scope of the Regulation to include a definition of working time compatible with this Directive and ensure that the Regulation applies to all mobile workers performing road-transport activities employed by undertakings established in a Member State and to self-employed drivers. Amendment 6 Article 3, point (a) (a) "working time" shall mean the time from the beginning to the end of work, during which the mobile worker is at his workstation, at the disposal of the employer and exercising his functions or activities, that is to say: - the time devoted to all road transport activities. These activities are in particular, the following : driving, loading and unloading, assisting passengers boarding and disembarking from the vehicle , cleaning and technical maintenance as well as all other work intended to ensure the safety of the vehicle, its cargo and passengers; (a) "working time" shall mean: - in the case of self-employed drivers: stand-by duty and the time during which the following activities are carried out: (i) driving; (ii) loading and unloading; (iii) checking or supervising passengers boarding and disembarking ; (iv) cleaning and technical maintenance as well as all other work intended to ensure the safety of the vehicle, its cargo and passengers; (v) inspection of the vehicle and monitoring of loading and unloading; (vi) administrative formalities with police, customs, immigration officers, etc; (vii) cooperation with police, customs or immigration officers for checks required by the law; - in the case of mobile workers: the time from the beginning to the end of work, that is all activities or standby duty, excluding breaks. Activities include, in