where appropriate, who has the freedom to work on his own account, does not work directly for an undertaking or employer, is at liberty to choose which freight he carries, has commercial relations with several customers, can negotiate prices and his own fees, can schedule his working hours freely and is the owner of one or more vehicles. Those who do not meet these criteria are subject to the same rights and obligations under this Directive as employees. Amendment 11 Article 3, point (g) (g) "night time" shall mean a period of at least four hours, as defined by national law, between 00.00 hours and 07.00 hours; (g) "night time" shall mean a period of at least seven hours, as defined by national law, and in any case encompassing the period between 00.00 hours and 5.00 hours; Amendment 12 Article 3, point (h a ) (new) (ha) "night worker" shall mean any mobile worker or self-employed driver who performs at least 48 days of his annual working time during night time. Amendment 13 Article 5, paragraph 1 1. Member States shall take the measures necessary to ensure that, without prejudice to the level of protection provided by Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 or, failing that, by the AETR Agreement, mobile workers in no circumstances work for more than six consecutive hours without a break. Working time shall be interrupted by a break of at least thirty minutes, if working hours total between six and nine hours, and of at least forty-five minutes, if working hours total more than nine hours. 1. Member States shall take the measures necessary to ensure that, without prejudice to the level of protection provided by Regulation (EEC) No 3820/85 or, failing that, by the AETR Agreement, mobile workers and self-employed drivers in no circumstances work for more than six consecutive hours without a break. Working time shall be interrupted by a break of at least thirty minutes, if working hours total between six and nine hours, and of at least forty-five minutes, if working hours total more than nine hours. Amendment 14 Article 7, paragraph 1, indent 1 - if night work is performed, the daily working time does not exceed ten hours in each twenty-four-hour period, - if night work is performed, the daily working time does not exceed eight hours in each twenty-four-hour period. It may be extended to ten hours only if an average of eight hours a day is not exceeded within a reference period to be determined after consultation of the social partners or in collective agreements or agreements between the social partners. For periods in which night workers are not requested to perform night work, Article 4 shall apply; Amendment 15 Article 8, paragraph 1 1. Derogations from Articles 4 and 7 may be adopted by means of laws, regulations or administrative provisions or by means of collective agreements or agreements between the two sides of industry , provided that the persons concerned are afforded equivalent periods of compensatory rest. 1. Derogations from Article 4 may be adopted by means of collective