CIA "directly responsible" in some cases for illegal activities in Europe , says Parliament Justice and home affairs 2006-07-06 - 15:52 MEPs adopt interim report on alleged illegal CIA activity in Europe The CIA was in some cases directly responsible for the "illegal seizure, removal, abduction and detention of terrorist suspects" in Europe, says an interim report adopted by the European Parliament. The report also criticises the involvement and complicity by certain EU States. MEPs have also given the responsible Temporary Committee the green light to continue its work for another six months. The report was adopted by 389 votes in favour, 137 against with 55 abstentions. The CIA, noted the European Parliament in its report, has been " directly responsible " in some cases for the extraordinary rendition, " illegal seizure, removal, abduction and detention of terrorist suspects on the territory of Member States, accession and candidate countries " - all of which constitute violations of fundamental rights under international law. As MEPs determined, the CIA - using aircraft hired by front companies - has made use of such practices for the illegal transfer of terrorist suspects to countries which frequently use torture during interrogations. With that in mind, MEPs call for extraordinary renditions to be " clearly prohibited " in international law. Member States " may be held liable " for failure to comply with the European Convention of Human Rights, added MEPs. Under the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, EU countries have the positive obligation to prevent human rights violations on their territory -- and to carry out investigations " to ascertain whether their territory and their airspace " have been used in connection with human rights violations. European governments taken to task It is " implausible ", say MEPs, " that certain European governments were not aware of the activities linked to extraordinary rendition taking place on their territory ". Such involvement or complicity, they argue, was likely on the part of Italian authorities in the 2003 abduction of Egyptian cleric Abu Omar by CIA agents in Milan; on the part of Bosnian authorities in the abduction and transfer of six Bosnian nationals or residents of Algerian origin to Guantanamo Bay and on the part of Swedish authorities, who expelled Egyptian nationals Mohammed Al Zary and Ahmed Agiza, handing them over to CIA agents for transfer to Egypt. Likewise, the EP " condemns " the 2003 abduction of German national Khaled El-Masri by the CIA and " deplores the reluctance of [the FYROM authorities] to confirm that El-Masri was in Skopje and was probably being held there before his rendition to Afghanistan by CIA agents. " Measures allegedly taken by the FYROM government to investigate the matter, the Parliament points out, were "inadequate." National governments are also criticized for their solicitation of " diplomatic assurances " against torture - a practice the EP labels as " unacceptable " and contradictory to EU policy guidelines on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. MEPs calls on EU countries to reject such assurances