the Common Foreign and Security Policy, police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the Commission shall take measures to improve the involvement of Parliament in such a way as to take Parliament's views as far as possible into account. 10. The President of the Commission and/or the Vice-President responsible for inter-institutional relations will meet the Conference of Presidents every three months to ensure regular dialogue between the two Institutions at the highest level. The President of the Commission will attend meetings of the Conference of Presidents at least twice a year. 11. Each Member of the Commission shall make sure that there is a regular and direct flow of information between the Member of the Commission and the chairperson of the relevant parliamentary committee. 12. The Commission shall not make public any legislative proposal or any significant initiative or decision before notifying Parliament thereof in writing. On the basis of the Commission's legislative and work programme and of the multi-annual programme, the two Institutions shall identify in advance, by common agreement, the proposals and initiatives of particular importance, with a view to presenting them at a plenary sitting of Parliament. Similarly, they shall identify those proposals and initiatives for which information is to be provided before the Conference of Presidents or conveyed, in an appropriate manner, to the relevant parliamentary committee or its chairperson. These decisions shall be taken in the framework of the regular dialogue between the two Institutions, as provided for in point 10, and shall be updated on a regular basis, taking due account of any political developments. 13. If an internal Commission document - of which Parliament has not been informed pursuant to points 8, 9 and 12 - is circulated outside the Institutions, the President of Parliament may request that the document concerned be forwarded to Parliament without delay, in order to communicate it to any Member of Parliament who may request it. 14. The Commission shall provide regular information in writing on action taken in response to specific requests addressed to it in Parliament’s resolutions, including in cases where it has not been able to follow Parliament's views. As regards the discharge procedure, the specific provisions laid down in point 26 shall apply. The Commission shall take account of any requests made, pursuant to Article 192 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, by Parliament to the Commission to submit legislative proposals, and shall provide a prompt and sufficiently detailed reply thereto. At the request of Parliament or the Commission, information on the follow-up to Parliament's significant requests shall also be provided before the relevant parliamentary committee and, if necessary, at a plenary sitting of Parliament. 15. Where a Member State presents a legislative initiative pursuant to Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union, the Commission shall inform Parliament, if so requested, of its position on the initiative before the relevant parliamentary committee. 16. The Commission shall inform Parliament of the list of its expert groups set up in order to assist the Commission in the exercise of its right of initiative. That list