instructions. If the Commission considers that the adoption of an accreditation decision may have a significant effect on the proper conduct of the programmes, for example in terms of costs and schedule, it shall notify it to the Security Accreditation Board. The Security Accreditation Board shall take utmost account of any notification made by the Commission and in its decisions provide reasons on how it has taken the comments of the Commission into account. This procedure avoids any Comitology stage thereby improving efficiency and increasing the accountability of the Security Accreditation Board. Political control of these type of decisions is also ensured as the Commission would need to inform the European Parliament and the Council of the impact of the adoption of accreditation decisions on the smooth running of the programmes. 4.3.2010 OPINION of the Committee on Budgets for the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 on the establishment of structures for the management of the European satellite radio navigation programmes ( COM(2009)0139 – C7‑0103/2009 – 2009/0047(COD) ) Rapporteur: Jutta Haug SHORT JUSTIFICATION The role and tasks of the European GNSS (Global Navigation Satellite System) Supervisory Authority (the Authority), communitarian agency in charge of the management of the deployment and operational phases of the GALILEO's program, suffered a substantial modification due to Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 defining a new framework for the public governance and financing of the Galileo and EGNOS programmes, which entered into force on 25 July 2008. This regulation sets out the principle of a strict division of responsibilities between the European Community (now the Union), represented by the Commission, the Authority and the European Space Agency, granting the Commission responsibility for the management of the programmes. It reduces the tasks of the Authority, which will be in particular responsible for ensuring the security of the system (notably issuing security accreditations) and contributing to prepare the commercialisation of European GNSS systems. It also provides that the Authority will accomplish such tasks entrusted to it whilst respecting the Commission’s role as manager of the programmes and in accordance with guidelines issued by the Commission. In order to ensure the compatibility with the new legal framework, it is necessary to modify also Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 on the establishment of structures for the management of the European satellite radio‑navigation programmes. Thus the proposal of the Commission. The name of the agency will change to GNSS Agency (the Agency). Its structure will be modified (notably, through the creation of a Security Accreditation Committee for European GNSS Systems alongside the Management Board and the Executive Director). EP, which had already put on reserve a part of the allocations and of the posts of the Authority en 2009, in waiting for the proposals of the Commission to take into consideration the modifications of the role and tasks of the Authority, should welcome in principle the proposal of the Commission. From a budgetary point of view, while it is not really easy to measure