Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (25 May 2009) The Commission has taken the opportunity of the RoHS Recast to examine whether DecaBDE should be removed from the scope of the RoHS Directive Directive 2002/95/EC on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances (RoHS) in electrical and electronic equipment, OJ L 37, 13.2.2003. . As required by Article 6 of the directive, this was done in the light of the precautionary principle and based on the existing scientific information, including the DecaBDE Risk Assessment OJ C 131, 29.5.2008. . That assessment concluded that for several areas covered no risks where identified for which risk reduction measures are needed beyond those which are already being applied. However, for some areas There is a need for further information and/or testing with respect to risks to workers, to humans exposed via the environment and to the aquatic and terrestrial ecosystem, in order to adequately characterise the concerns regarding the persistent, bio-accumulative and toxic properties of the substance. , there were still concerns and further information and monitoring is needed to address these concerns Commission Regulation (EC) No 565/2006 (OJ L 99/3, 7.4.2006) required such further studies to be carried out for the purpose of risk evaluation, including on developmental neurotoxicity, human bio-monitoring and environmental monitoring programmes. The neurotoxicity is due to cover a period of 24 months; the monitoring exercises are due to cover a 10 year period with annual reporting, the time limit starting at the day of publication of the information requirement in the Official Journal of the European Commission. . These remaining concerns prompted the Commission to maintain the existing restriction on the use of DecaBDE in electrical and electronic equipment. As for the Honourable Member's second question, any consideration to re-assess the ban would require most likely, as a minimum, new technical and scientific information that the remaining uncertainties identified by the risk assessment are mitigated. This restriction will be kept under review and, if necessary, adjusted to take account of new technical and scientific information (e.g. risk assessments). Should new information allow to lift the ban on DecaBDE, then the Commission can make use of its right of initiative to propose a review of the directive, or can propose to amend the annex to the RoHS Directive for the purpose of adaptation to technical and scientific progress (through Comitology Full account should, however, be taken of the judgment of the Court of 1 April 2008 in Joined Cases C‑14/06 and C‑295/06, which annulled Point 2 of the annex to Commission Decision 2005/717/EC amending for the purposes of adapting to technical progress the annex to the RoHS Directive in order to exempt all the polymeric applications of Decabromodiphenyl ether (DecaBDE). The Court concluded that the decision, which is equivalent to a general exemption for the use of DecaBDE in electrical and electronic equipment, was adopted when the conditions laid down by the Community legislature in Article 5(1) of the RoHS Directive had not been met and runs counter to the objective pursued by that legislature