we can show that Europe can and does deliver real benefits. We in the EU have a responsibility to rise to that challenge. This not an area where we can fail them." Commissioner Franco FRATTINI opened his speech by saying that, " Our heart goes out to those who have suffered because of terrorism ". He urged the importance of " resilience ". The EU's action, he said, would be based on three strands: prevention, protection and reaction. As to prevention, Commissioner Frattini stated that it would be important to better understand the reasons for radicalisation. It would be necessary to deepen dialogue with religious and lay communities, in particular in Arab and Islamic countries. The Commissioner underlined the importance of " universal citizenship " and stated that Europeans were " jealous custodians " of fundamental rights such as the right to life and equality. In this light, the Commissioner announced that on 21 September, the Commission would publish a Communication on " terrorist recruitment and violent radicalisation ". As to protection, Commissioner Frattini said that the Commission would also publish a communication on the European Programme for critical infrastructure protections (EPCIP). This would involve and promote public-private partnerships in the field of security. The EU needed to implement an effective response capacity. The EU, he said, must enhance co-operation between intelligence and law enforcement authorities by creating a European network giving meaning to the ” availability principle ”, which is crucial to improving the exchange of vital information. A new challenge, he said, was the further improvement of ” mutual trust between Member States ”: after the approval of the European Arrest Warrant, it is now time to adopt the European Evidence Warrant. What the EU needed, he said, was less legislation and more operational action. "We should never be tired to repeat that when working on security we have to keep a balance between law enforcement activities and the protection of other fundamental rights. And I am saying ‘others’ since I consider the right to security, and therefore the right to life, the right that we all have to walk and travel without fear in our cities, a real pillar on which the other fundamental rights are set." The EU has to balance prosecution activities and privacy, he said. "We will consider this both in the proposal on data retention and in the presentation of the first comprehensive proposal on data protection in the third pillar scheduled for October. The key concept is the assurance that only for specific objectives (the fight against terrorism and organised crime) and under the supervision of independent authorities, such as the judiciary, will data be processed for a definite period of time." " Please remember that for the time being there are 25 different data retention regimes. We all need to be aware that we are committed to the fight against terrorism and we have to act quickly. Security waits for no-one and we cannot allow ourselves to concede time to our enemies. That’s why I am asking you to be understanding and determined.