recommendation. The UK Parliament's Select Committee on Public Administration was highly critical of the government's position on this issue and expressed concern about the implications it may have for the Ombudsman's constitutional role: We agree with the Ombudsman that maladministration occurred. Government information about pensions was deficient and reasonable people would have been misled. Moreover, the Government should have considered the Ombudsman's recommendations properly, rather than immediately assuming that they would place large burdens on the public purse. This is the second time in less than 12 months that the Ombudsman has reported to Parliament that she has found injustice that has not been, or will not be, remedied. Only four such reports have ever been made. The system established by the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 will only work if there is a common understanding between the Ombudsman, Parliament and Government as to what constitutes maladministration, and who has authority in identifying it. The Government has been far too ready to dismiss the Ombudsman's findings of maladministration. Our investigations have shown that these findings were sound. It would be extremely unfortunate if Government became accustomed simply to reject findings of maladministration, especially if an investigation on this Committee proved there was indeed a case to answer. At the heart of every case of maladministration is someone who has suffered injustice. By concentrating its energy on denying findings of maladministration, rather than on considering what remedies might be practical and proportionate, the Government has caused further distress to complainants. It has delayed any resolution of their problems ." Public Administration Select Committee: "The Ombudsman in Question: the Ombudsman’s report on pensions and its constitutional implications"; Sixth Report of Session 2005–06; Ordered by The House of Commons to be printed 20 July 2006. http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/cm200506/cmselect/cmpubadm/1081/108102.htm The government maintained its position in its response to the conclusions and recommendations in the Select Committee’s report. The Government Response to the Public Administration Select Committee’s Sixth Report of Session 2005–06 The Ombudsman in Question: the Ombudsman’s report on pensions and its constitutional implications [HC 1081]. As Mr BRAITHWAITE (H11) informed the committee, some of the victims sought a judicial review of the decision to reject the Ombudsman's findings and her recommendation before the High Court. In its judgement of 21 February 2007 (see WE-FILE 30 Judgement on Case No: CO/4927/2006. ), the court quashed the Secretary of State's rejection of the Ombudsman's finding of maladministration and directed him to reconsider the Ombudsman's recommendation. A number of policyholders expressed deep concern: " Given this precedent, it must be uncertain whether compensation will follow a finding of maladministration by the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman ", said Mr LAKE (H1). Ms KWANTES (H7) struck a similar note: " My concern is that the Government can very easily do the same thing when the Parliamentary Ombudsman reports on Equitable Life, and that is a real concern. ... My feeling is that, if a government can just ignore what is recommended with such impunity, it makes a total mockery of the ombudsman system. " Mr SCAWEN states in WE 23/2 Page 6. that "