this Regulation (hereinafter called "the first applicant"), provided that those test and study reports were a) necessary for the authorisation or an amendment of an authorisation in order to allow the use on another crop, and b) certified as compliant with the principles of Good Laboratory Practice or Good Experimental Practice in accordance with the data requirements for plant protection products referred to in Article 9 (1)(c). Where a report is protected, it may ▐be used, by the Member State which received it, for the benefit of other applicants for pesticides , except as provided in paragraph 3 , in Article 65 or in Article 84 . The period of data protection shall be ten years starting at the date of the first authorisation in that Member State, except as provided in paragraph 3 , in Article 65 or in Article 84 . That period shall be extended to 15 years for pesticides covered by Article 50 and 12 years for those covered by Article 51 . A study submitted for the renewal or review of an authorisation shall not be protected except where required for the purposes of amending the legislation . Data protection shall also apply to third parties who submit tests and study reports for the purpose of minor uses. 2. The data protection period for the product concerned shall be extended if the first applicant applies for authorisation for derived plant protection products for restricted uses as defined in Article 54(1). The data protection period shall be extended by three months for each new product for limited use. The data protection period may be extended by a maximum of three years. 3 . Paragraph 1 shall not apply: a) to test and study reports for which the applicant has submitted a letter of access; or b) where any period of data protection granted for the test and study reports concerned in relation to another plant protection product has expired. 4 . Data protection under paragraph 1 shall only be granted where the first applicant has claimed data protection at the time of submitting the dossier or further information and has provided to the Member State concerned for each test or study report the following information: a) justification that the test and study reports submitted are necessary for the first authorisation, renewal or review, or for the amendment of the authorisation of a plant protection product; or as a result of changes to legislation ; b) confirmation that any period of data protection granted for the test or study report has not expired. 5. By way of derogation from paragraph 1, where tests and study reports have already been used to grant authorisation to another product and the period of protection has not yet expired, those reports shall be protected for the remaining period. Article 63 List of test and study reports 1. For each active substance, safener and synergist, rapporteur Member States shall forward to the Authority, who shall make available to the public at the moment of publishing the draft assessment report pursuant to Article 13 ,