p. 22. . Your rapporteur would therefore like a clear link between discrimination and exclusion to be established and highlighted as part of the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All, and for just as much emphasis to be placed on the importance of integration as on the benefits of diversity. Lastly, this European Year must address the issue of multiple discrimination. Some persons or communities are discriminated against on several grounds (social origin and ethnic origin, etc.). The European Year of Equal Opportunities for All must focus consideration on the best way to combat such multiple discrimination. 5.10.2005 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEN’S RIGHTS AND GENDER EQUALITY for the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All (2007) - Towards a Just Society ( COM(2005)0225 – C6‑0178/2005 – 2005/0107(COD) ) Draftswoman: Eva-Britt Svensson AMENDMENTS The Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality calls on the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission OJ C .., 19.9.2005, p. ... Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 2 Non-discrimination is a fundamental principle of the European Union. Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union prohibits discrimination on a variety of grounds. Non-discrimination is a fundamental principle of the European Union. Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community prohibits discrimination on a variety of grounds , as does Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. Justification The Charter of Fundamental Rights is not yet binding. Accordingly, it is more appropriate to refer also to Article 13 of the ECT, which establishes the principle that all forms of discrimination are to be combated. Amendment 2 Recital 7 European legislation has significantly raised the level of guaranteed equality and protection against inequalities and discrimination across the EU and acted as a catalyst for the development of a more coherent, rights-based approach to equality and non-discrimination. European legislation has significantly raised the level of guaranteed equality and protection against inequalities and discrimination across the EU and acted as a catalyst for the development of a more coherent, rights-based approach to equality and non-discrimination. Despite this fact, citizens in the EU still encounter discrimination and unequal treatment in their daily lives. Amendment 3 Recital 7 a (new) (7a) Gender equality is not a question of a minority group facing inequality. Gender inequality predominantly affects the majority of the population, and it is essential that differences based on gender be taken fully into account in action in relation to age, disability, religion or belief, race and sexual orientation. Amendment 4 Recital 8 (8) Key to the successful impact of the Community non-discrimination legislative framework is the extent to which it enjoys broad popular support. The European Year should act as a catalyst in raising awareness and in building momentum. It should help to focus political attention