the Council shall set a TAC which is 15 % greater than the TAC of that year. 2. If this leads to a reduction of more than 15% in the multiannual TAC, the Council shall decide to implement the reduction in stages, so that the differences between years do not exceed 15%. 3. Where the application of paragraph 1 would result in a TAC which is more than 15 % less than the TAC of the preceding year, the Council shall set a TAC which is 15 % less than the TAC of that year. 3. If this leads to an increase of more than 15 % , a maximum increase of 15 % shall be decided. Amendment 11 Article 5 1. The Council shall set a TAC for sole at that level which, according to a scientific evaluation carried out by STECF , is the higher of the following: 1. If the spawning stock biomass of sole is estimated by the STECF , on the basis of the latest ICES report, to be less than the precautionary level of 35 000 tons, the Council shall set a TAC for a period of 3 years. This shall be set in such a manner that, according to the STECF's estimate, there is a reasonable likelihood that stocks will be restored to the precautionary level in 3 years. (a) that TAC whose application would result in the same proportionate change in the fishing mortality rate on sole as is generated by the application of Article 4(1) concerning plaice; (b) that TAC whose application would result in a fishing mortality rate of 0.2 in its year of application; (c) that TAC whose application would result in a 10% reduction in the fishing mortality rate in its year of application compared to the fishing mortality rate estimated for the preceding year. 2. Where the application of paragraph 1 would result in a TAC which exceeds the TAC of the preceding year by more than 15%, the Council shall set a TAC which is 15% greater than the TAC of that year. 2. If this leads to a reduction of more than 15% in the multiannual TAC, the Council shall decide to implement the reduction in stages, so that the differences between years do not exceed 15%. 3. Where the application of paragraph 1 would result in a TAC which is more than 15% less than the TAC of the preceding year, the Council shall set a TAC which is 15% less than the TAC of that year. 3. If this leads to an increase of more than 15%, a maximum increase of 15% shall be decided. Amendment 12 Article 6, paragraph 2 2. Each year, the Council shall decide by a qualified majority, on the basis of a proposal from the Commission, on the maximum number of days at sea available for Community fishing vessels deploying beam trawl gear of mesh size equal to or greater than 80 mm and subject to the system of fishing effort limitation referred to in paragraph 1. 2. For each