4. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and the Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT 1. Objectives of the proposal The Commission proposes to provide macro-financial assistance (MFA) to Georgia in the form of grant instalments in a maximum amount of EUR 46 million. The assistance is intended to be allocated to the financing of the deficit of the state budget and is planned to be disbursed in two instalments (the first tranche before the end of 2009 and the second in early 2010). It aims at covering Georgia's residual external financing needs in 2009-2010 as identified by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The funds will be channelled to the state budget of Georgia to help meet acute budgetary needs. 2. General context Georgia has experienced a severe economic downturn since the eruption of the military conflict with Russia in August 2008 that caused both direct and indirect damages, as well as resulted in large number of internally displaced population. In addition, the global financial crisis that broke out in the fall of 2008 further aggravated Georgia’s economic situation. The proposed assistance aims at supporting Georgia's recovery in the aftermath of the armed conflict with Russia and contributes also to helping Georgia address the consequences of the global economic and financial crisis. The proposed MFA is intended to run in parallel to the stand-by arrangement (SBA) that was approved by the IMF in September 2008. The EC disbursements are tied to the use of IMF resources and therefore have a direct link to the implementation by the beneficiary of the agreed macroeconomic and structural policies and its pace of economic recovery. At the Brussels donors’ conference of 22 October 2008, significant assistance was pledged to Georgia by the Member States and other bilateral donors and multilateral creditors, including up to EUR 500 million from the EC. The sources of EC funding include both programmed funds under the envelope of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) and crisis instruments, such as the Instrument for Stability, Humanitarian Aid and MFA. The MFA complements other assistance instruments by providing short-term macro-economic support to Georgia in the context of the IMF-supported economic program whereas the ENPI budget support, while also contributing to covering Georgia's financing needs, is linked to specific sectoral reforms. At the time of the first review of the SBA (December 2008) the Georgian authorities nonetheless decided not to draw the second tranche from IMF under the SBA (in view of a relatively positive outlook for foreign direct investment in 2009 and the fear to damage investor confidence in the country). Therefore the Commission postponed the finalisation of its proposal for MFA, due to the fact that it can only be provided as complementary financing to IMF funding. However, subsequently Georgia’s economic situation worsened again and the Georgian authorities decided to seek potential external financing. Considering the second and the third review of the SBA (in March and August 2009 respectively) and considering that much of the donor support still needs to be confirmed or its timing needs to be clarified, the