Answer given by Ms Geoghegan-Quinn on behalf of the Commission (1 June 2011) Photovoltaic (PV) solar energy is a versatile, sustainable technology with the potential to substantially contribute to meeting Europe's 2020 energy policy targets (in particular the objective of a 20 % contribution of renewable energy in final energy consumption). Given this potential, the European Commission has initiated the setting-up of the Solar Europe Initiative, as part of the SET Plan Industrial Initiatives http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.do?reference=MEMO/08/657 . Today several PV technologies are commercially available. Many more, at earlier stages of development, seeking to increase the solar cell efficiency while at the same time minimising its cost, are to be found in the laboratory or in pilot production. The use of plasmonic effects has been proposed as a promising pathway to increase light absorption in active layers of solar cells and has been effectively demonstrated on several thin-film, organic, dye sensitised and crystalline-Si solar cell technologies. The enhanced light absorption can ultimately lead to thinner and therefore less expensive solar cells due to the use of less material. The European Commission, predominantly through its Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (FPs), has been continuously supporting research and innovation activities related to the development of novel solar photovoltaic technologies in Europe. As with all the 7th Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP7, 2007‑13) thematic research and innovation priorities, transnational collaborative projects on solar cell technologies can be funded by the European Commission on a shared cost basis, following a call for project proposals in accordance with the requirements laid down in the relevant specific programmes (‘Cooperation’, ‘Ideas’, ‘People’, ‘Capacities’) and work programmes (‘Energy’, ‘Nanosciences, nanotechnologies, materials & new production technologies (NMP)’ and ‘Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)’). Grants for individual research may be available for ‘frontier research’ through the ‘Ideas’ programme (‘European Research Council (ERC)’ in accordance with the FP7 Rules for Participation http://ec.europa.eu/research/fp7/index_en.cfm?pg=documents and with the procedures for selecting projects approved by the Council and the European Parliament in 2007. Research and innovation projects on plasmonic solar cells were supported through the FP7-ICT-2009-4, the FP7-ENERGY-NMP‑2008-1 and the FP7-PEOPLE‑2007-2-2-ERG calls. Through these and numerous more projects on PV and other renewable energy technologies, in which both public and private actors (research institutions, universities, industries, SMEs, etc) collaborate, an important step towards innovation is achieved. Such innovation would enhance the competitiveness of the European renewable energy market while at the same time contribute to meeting Europe's 2020 energy policy targets.