Answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission (1 July 2005) The Commission is in close contact with the Chinese authorities concerning the alleged release of non‑authorised genetically modified (GM) rice in the Chinese province of Hubei. The Chinese authorities have assured the Commission that no rice exports have taken place from the concerned province to the EU in the last years. Moreover, the Chinese authorities are conducting an investigation on the alleged release of this GM rice and will inform the Commission about the results. Based on the information by the Chinese authorities and the results of this investigation the Commission will assess the situation and decide whether measures are necessary to address this situation. On more general terms the Commission wishes to point out that it is not possible to ensure worldwide simultaneous approval of GM products. This leads to the situation where the placing on the market of a GM product is legitimately authorised in one country, whereas in other countries it is not. The Commission believes that the Community legislation foresees all the necessary tools to address such a situation. In particular, under Community law, Member States are responsible for carrying out control and inspection at import. In case of findings of non-approved GMOs or GM food or feed, Member States are requested to notify such a finding to the Commission and the other Member States via the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety, OJ L 31, 1.2.2002. . So far, there has been no notification of the detection of GM rice in EU import. An example of such a finding of non-approved GMOs is the recent detection of GM papaya in Germany, to which the Honourable Member also referred. This papaya may not be legally placed on the market in the Community, even though it has been assessed for its safety and authorised in the third country it was imported from. As soon as this GM papaya was detected, the finding was notified to the Commission and the other Member States via the rapid alert system for food and feed. Information about a suitable detection method was exchanged between the Commission and Member States and is available via the register of detection methods held by the Joint Research Centre. This central register has been put in place by the Joint Research Centre and is being actively developed in particular with a view to detection methods for GMOs that are not authorised in the Community. With this, all Member States were provided with the necessary means to prevent further import of the non-authorised GMO. The Commission does not consider further measures as justified.