Answer given by Mr Füle on behalf of the Commission (7 June 2011) The EU puts the promotion of all human rights, including fight against discrimination, at the heart of its foreign policy. On several occasions the EU has firmly condemned the massive human rights violations in Libya since the start of the crisis and called upon the Libyan authorities to respect human rights. The EU has in this respect supported the suspension of Libya from the UN Human Rights Council. It has also supported the referral of the ongoing violations to the International Criminal Court. Given the current circumstances of violence and military stand-off in the country, the Commission sees little scope to effectively addressing individual cases of people killed, disappeared or imprisoned by the Gaddafi regime. The EU attaches great importance to promoting inter-ethnic and inter-religious reconciliation, preventing violence and discrimination based on religion or ethnic affiliation and promoting tolerance and broad- based dialogue among all persons, including persons belonging to minorities. On 22 February 2011, the EU suspended negotiations of the EU‑Libya Framework Agreement. In line with its general policy on human rights clauses, the Commission had proposed that a human rights clause be included in the agreement. The standard wording of the clause states that respect for democratic principles and fundamental and human rights, as defined in particular in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, underpin the internal and external policies of the Parties and constitute an essential element of the agreement. The rights of minorities are therefore also covered by this clause. Indeed, Article 18 of the Universal Declaration refers to the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, and this freedom either in public or private to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance; Article 19 of the Universal Declaration refers to the right of freedom of opinion and expression; Article 20 of the Universal Declaration refers to the right of freedom of association and Article 26 of the Universal Declaration provides that parents have the right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children.