Answer given by Mr Almunia on behalf of the Commission (31 July 2007) Greece transmitted to the Commission, on 22 September 2006, revised gross domestic product/gross national product (GDP/GNP) data showing a revision of +26 %. In line with general practice, Eurostat presented, at end October 2006, these revised data to the gross national income (GNI) Committee of Member States for a first examination. The GNI Committee issued a statement concluding that the GNI Committee did not have sufficient information on the revised data and the methodological changes reported by Greece. The GNI Committee further considered it essential that Greece cooperates fully with Eurostat and provides a completely revised GNI inventory explaining in detail the new sources and methods used in their national accounts so that Eurostat can verify the new data and reports the results of its verification to the GNI Committee. Greece provided its revised GNI inventory to Eurostat on 6 February 2007, in the form of a document of 460 pages in Greek. This voluminous and technical document was translated by the Commission into English. Further to a desk analysis of the Greek GNI inventory, Eurostat carried out a mission to Greece on 20-26 June 2007. In line with established practice for methodological issues, experts from other Member States participated in the country mission in order to ensure full transparency, as is the case with missions to other Member States. Eurostat is finalising the conclusions from the mission. The mission results will be first discussed with the Greek statistical authorities and their comments will be taken into account. After this, Eurostat will present a complete assessment report on the revised Greek GDP/GNP data to the GNI Committee for a full discussion. It is expected that this assessment report will be presented to the GNI Committee by October 2007 . If the Commission's detailed examination of the data and its mission to Greece confirm that Greece's GNI has indeed increased, this Member State's EU Budget contribution will also increase for the years affected by the revision. However, the exact budgetary consequences cannot yet be established. Before, the current detailed analysis of the basis for the Greek authorities' calculation must be completed and the results of this analysis must be discussed by the GNI Committee. It is usual practice that Member States undertake a major revision of their national accounts approximately every five years, although there is no regulatory obligation to do so. The last major revision of Greek national accounts took place in 1993. Greece has not sent sufficient information explaining why it took so long to achieve a new major revision. Each year in September, the Member States notify GNI data for the previous year as well as any revisions of data for preceding years. Such revisions are a normal part of the budgetary procedure and may reduce or increase the Member State's GNI. The Member State's GNI-based contributions are then adjusted accordingly involving also payment of arrears. No interest is calculated as a result of these revisions. However, should a Member State fail to meet its obligations to