Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (2 July 2010) The Commission has been concerned for some time that waste management facilities in Campania are insufficient to meet the requirements of the Waste Framework Directive, and leading to a risk to environment and human health. The Commission therefore took action in 2007 by launching an infringement procedure against Italy for breach of Directive 2006/12/EC OJ L 114, 27.4.2006, p. 9 . . And in 2008 the Commission decided to refer the case to the Court of Justice, which condemned Italy on 4 March 2010 (C-297/08). Any future steps in the context of the abovementioned infringement procedure must be decided on the basis of a clear knowledge of the current situation in Campania. The Commission has therefore asked the Italian authorities to indicate which measures they have taken, or plan to take, in order to comply with the ruling. A reply to this request is currently awaited. Once the Italian reply is received, the Commission will be in a position to assess the current situation and plan any future steps. It should be understood that it is national authorities that are bound to ensure appropriate management and control of the waste disposal network in their territory. National authorities have also sole responsibility in the fight against criminal activities in connexion with waste production, transport and disposal (so called ‘eco-mafia’). As regards the suggestion to extend to public bodies' liability under Directive 2008/99/EC on the protection of the environment through criminal law OJ L 328, 6.2.2008, p. 28 . , it should be recalled that responsibility of public authorities is a matter to be substantiated by national Courts under national rules. Finally, as regards due transposition into Italian law of Directive 2008/99/EC, the Commission has no evidence suggesting that the directive will not be transposed within the set deadline. Should this not be the case, the Commission would take appropriate steps, as foreseen by the Treaty.