the fund and its investment objectives. The intention of with-profits is to give relatively cautious investors a taste of the stock market but without too much risk. In return for monthly premiums, the company promises to pay a lump sum at the end of the policy's term. Investors' premiums are paid into a central fund with those of other "with-profits" investors. A large part of the policy's final value depends on bonuses paid by the firm during the investment period and when the policy matures. To safeguard the funds' strength, financial penalties are also imposed on savers who wish to withdraw their money early. With-profits funds also have an in-built safety mechanism known as "smoothing". This means that in years of good investment growth companies should hold back profits and use them to top up bonuses in years when economic conditions are harsher. IV. Summary of actions undertaken Actions taken and evidence analysed so far 1. Hearing of relevant witnesses before Committee During its meetings on 23 March 2006, 25 April 2006, 29 May 2006, 21 June 2006, 11 July 2006, 13 September 2006, 4 October 2006, 23 November 2006, 19 December 2006, 25 January 2007 and 1 February 2007, the Committee of Inquiry heard testimonies of several witnesses, including Equitable Life policyholders, who had previously petitioned the European Parliament, other policyholders from the UK, Ireland and Germany, representatives of the UK, Irish, German and Swiss governments, the European Commission and the current chief executive of Equitable Life. The following witnesses provided oral evidence: Meeting of 23 March 2006 (oral evidence H1): - Tom LAKE, Chairman of the Equitable Members' Action Group - Paul BRAITHWAITE, General Secretary of the Equitable Members' Action Group, (petitioner) - Elemér TERTÁK, European Commission DG Markt, Director for Financial Institutions - Karel VAN HULLE, European Commission, DG Markt, Head of the Insurance and Pensions Unit - Alan BEVERLY, European Commission, DG Markt, Insurance and Pensions Unit Meeting of 25 April 2006 (oral evidence H2): - Michael JOSEPHS, Adviser to Investor's Association - Beatrice KNOWD, Irish policyholder - Patrick KNOWD, Irish policyholder - Nicolas BELLORD, policyholder (petitioner) - Paul WEIR, Chairman of the Late Contributors Action Group - Charles THOMSON, Chief Executive Officer, Equitable Life Assurance Society Meeting of 29 May 2006 (oral evidence H3): - Peter SCAWEN, Equitable Life Trapped Annuitants (ELTA) group - Markus J. WEYER, DAGEV (Deutsche Arbeitsgemeinschaft der Equitable Life Versicherungsnehmer), association representing the interest of policyholders who underwrote Equitable Life policies in Germany - Martin McELWEE, author of the Leviathan report Meeting of 21 June 2006 (oral evidence H4): - Clive MAXWELL, Director for Financial Services Policy at HM Treasury - David STRACHAN, Director for the insurance sector at the Financial Services Authority (FSA) - Christopher DAYKIN, Government Actuary, Head of the GAD (Government Actuary's Department) - Mary O'DEA, Consumer Director, Anne TROY, Head of insurance supervision, at the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority (ISFRA), and George TREACY , Head of Consumer Protection Codes at the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority (IFSRA) - Colin SLATER, accountant and partner at Burgess Hodgson. Meeting of