assemble evidence , detain the persons alleged to be responsible and escort the vessel to the nearest or most suitable port where it shall be detained prior to being returned, informing beforehand if possible or immediately afterwards the State whose flag was being flown by the vessel , to which they shall immediately forward a summary of the evidence of all the offences detected. The flag Member State shall immediately issue a receipt for such evidence . Amendment 22 Article 6, paragraph 3 (Convention) 3. This right shall be exercised in accordance with the general provisions of international law. 3. This right shall be exercised in accordance with the general provisions of international law , European Union law in this area and the provisions of this Convention . Amendment 23 Article 7, paragraph 1 (Convention) 1. Where action has been taken pursuant to Article 6, due account shall be taken of the need not to endanger the safety of life at sea or the security of the vessel and cargo, or to prejudice the commercial and legal interests of the flag State or the commercial interests of third parties. 1. Where action has been taken pursuant to Article 6, in all relevant cases the intervening State shall take due account of the need not to endanger the safety of life at sea or the security of the vessel and cargo, or to prejudice the commercial and legal interests of the flag State or the commercial interests of third parties. Amendment 24 Article 7, paragraph 2 (Convention) 2. In any case, should the action have been taken without adequate grounds for carrying out the operation , the Member State which carried it out shall be held responsible for damage and losses incurred unless the action was taken at the request of the flag State . 2. Where the action has been taken in a manner that cannot be justified under this Convention , the Member State which carried it out shall be held responsible for damage and losses incurred. Amendment 25 Article 7, paragraph 2a (new) (Convention) 2a. The intervening State shall make good any loss, injury or damage incurred by the natural or legal persons as a result of negligence or mistakes attributable to it during the course of the action taken. Amendment 26 Article 7, paragraph 3 (Convention) 3. A vessel's period of detention shall be reduced to the absolute minimum and the vessel returned to the flag State or given the right to free passage as soon as possible. 3. A vessel's period of detention shall be reduced to the absolute minimum required in order to complete the investigations into the offence in question, and the vessel shall be returned to the flag State or given the right to free passage as soon as possible. Amendment 27 Article 7, paragraph 4 (Convention) 4. Persons detained shall be guaranteed the same rights as those enjoyed by nationals, especially the right to have an interpreter and be assisted by a lawyer . 4. Persons detained shall be guaranteed the same rights as