Question for written answer E-009226/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Damien Abad (PPE) (14 October 2011) Subject: Proceedings against Idreco-Insigma in the Maritza East 2 project In August 2011, the EBRD decided to penalise Idreco and Insigma by debarring them for three years as a result of the finding that they had engaged in fraudulent practices in connection with the desulphurisation project at Maritza East 2. Under this sanction, Idreco and Insigma and all their respective subsidiaries are no longer eligible to participate in any project financed by the EBRD or any other institution that has signed an agreement for mutual enforcement of debarment decisions with the EBRD. This sanction does not, however, apply to contracts financed by the European Commission. In its answer to Written Question P‑005265/2011, the Commission said that in the light of the recommendations issued by OLAF, it would take any measures necessary concerning financial and judicial follow-up of this case. Following the OLAF recommendations, the competent authorities — the Bulgarian authorities responsible for judicial follow-up — referred the matter to the Sofia Public Prosecutor in May 2011. However, as far as the author of this question knows, this referral has not resulted in any legal proceedings so far. If the presumption of innocence applies while the investigation of the case is under way, the fact remains that in the absence of judicial sanctions by the Bulgarian authorities, Idreco and Insigma can continue to conclude contracts funded by the Commission despite the findings of fraud by OLAF and the sanctions already imposed by the EBRD. 1. What action does the Commission intend to take with the Bulgarian judicial authorities in order to ensure that the legal proceedings against Idreco and Insigma recommended by OLAF are launched? 2. Could the Commission not draw up a ‘blacklist’ of firms identified as having engaged in fraudulent practices by OLAF with a view to preventing them from tendering for contracts which it co-finances through its various financial instruments?