receive confirmation that his data have been deleted. ( 24 ) The right to reimbursement of the costs of healthcare provided in another Member State from the statutory social security scheme of patients as insured persons has been recognised by the Court of Justice in several judgements. The Court of Justice has held that the Treaty provisions include the freedom ▌for the recipients of healthcare, including persons in need of medical treatment, to go to another Member Sate in order to receive it there. ▌Community law does not detract from the power of the Member States to organise their healthcare and social security systems ▌. ( 25 ) In accordance with the principles established by the Court of Justice, and without endangering the financial balance of Member States' healthcare and social security systems, greater legal certainty as regards the reimbursement of healthcare costs should be provided for patients and for health professionals, healthcare providers and social security institutions. ( 26 ) This Directive does not address the assumption of costs of healthcare which become necessary on medical grounds during a temporary stay of insured persons in another Member State. Neither does this Directive affect patients' rights to be granted an authorisation for ║ treatment in another Member State where the conditions provided for by the regulations on coordination of social security schemes, in particular Article 22 of Council Regulation ( EEC ) No 1408/71 of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community OJ L 149, 5.7.1971, p. 2. ║ and Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the coordination of social security systems OJ L 166, 30.4.2004, p. 1. are met. ( 27 ) ▌Patients should be guaranteed assumption of the costs of ▌healthcare and goods connected with healthcare provided in a Member State other than their Member State of affiliation at least at the level provided for treatment which is the same or equally effective, had they been provided or purchased in the Member State of affiliation. This fully respects the responsibility of the Member States to determine the extent of the sickness cover available to their citizens and prevents any significant effect on the financing of the national healthcare systems. Member States may nevertheless provide in their national legislation for reimbursement of the costs of the treatment at the tariffs in force in the Member State of treatment if this is more beneficial for the patient. This may be the case in particular for any treatment provided through European reference networks referred to in Article 17 of this Directive. ( 28 ) For the patient, therefore, the two systems are coherent; either this Directive applies or Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 applies . In any event, any insured person who requests an authorisation to receive a treatment appropriate to his/her condition in another Member State should always be granted this authorisation under the conditions provided for in Regulations (EEC) No 1408/71 and (EC) No 883/