Question for written answer P-011041/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Thomas Ulmer (PPE) (18 January 2011) Subject: Revision of the directive concerning medical devices — decisions taken in advance of the legislative procedure The Commission is currently working on a proposal for revising the Medical Devices Directive (MDD). This review is needed in order to examine the provisions in a number of areas, including regulatory systems, the introduction of harmonised standards for national testing and approval authorities and the classification of medical devices. At the same time, the Member States are still in the process of implementing the Medical Devices Directive (MDD), which was adopted in 2009. The Commission is undoubtedly preparing the legislative procedure with the necessary care. However, it is very worrying that other regulatory working groups working under the Commission are undermining the basis for ‘good regulation’, insofar as they are already laying down new standards for the reclassification of products. A recently‑adopted recommendation on reclassification could lead to confusion and undermine the forthcoming work of the Parliament and Council, which are both awaiting the Commission proposal. Moreover, further decisions or recommendations by working groups could lead to a bottleneck in terms of implementation in individual Member States. A delay in the publication of the Commission proposal must not be used by working groups as justification for going it alone and bypassing legislative bodies when taking such decisions. Any decision on classification is not only confusing but may also not be sustainable, as it could be reversed by the Parliament and Council in the course of the legislative procedure. To what extent does the Commission agree that all procedures for reclassifying medical devices must be terminated without delay and any decisions or recommendations on reclassification taken recently must be revoked, and that it is necessary to wait for the legislative procedure, in which the Parliament and Council work together, to be completed?