which produce and promote such equipment; 55. Notes that taxation falls within the competence of the Member States; notes that taxation measures chosen by Member States may be an element of all NEEAPs; advocates the internalisation of environmental costs; 56. Calls on all Member States to introduce specific incentives to encourage households, micro-businesses and private landlords to pursue energy-efficiency measures and buy energy-efficient products; 57. Considers that tax incentives could in certain circumstances be available for the demolition of energy-inefficient buildings, when combined with the construction of new energy-efficient buildings; Changing behaviour 58. Points to the major role to be played by the public sector in promoting energy-efficient solutions; 59. Agrees that education and training programmes relating to energy efficiency have a key role to play, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises; notes that energy education should start at a very early age with the incorporation of related courses within the educational programmes of schools throughout the EU; notes that rolling out innovative techniques for construction and energy management will require a large cadre of appropriately skilled workers; is concerned that Member States have not yet produced adequate training programmes for energy-efficiency related skills; calls for human resource requirements to be regarded as an essential element of NEEAPs; 60. Encourages regional and local authorities to develop close partnerships with regional energy agencies in order to improve training facilities for energy technicians and professionals working in related sectors; stresses the need for more coordinated networks of local actors in order to disseminate best practices in energy efficiency to less developed regions; 61. Stresses the role that public procurement, as well as services such as energy audits might play in reducing waste and promoting the improved exploitation of each building's energy potential; urges the Member States and their regional, local and other public authorities to be the first to set an example, not only in administrative buildings but also in other public buildings such as schools, universities and hospitals and in entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services; 62. Calls on the Commission to increase research into behavioural economics and human decision-making so as to help to tailor future energy-efficiency information campaigns (such as the Sustainable Energy Europe Campaign) and thus maximise their benefits; 63. Agrees that energy efficiency starts at home; calls on the Commission, the Council and its own departments to take the lead by requiring exemplary energy performance standards to be set for all EU institution buildings, as part of a wider audit of energy use by the institutions which should embrace working and travel arrangements, incentives and locations, as well as equipment and procurement; 64. Calls on the Commission and the Member States to organise – on an annual basis – a European Action Day on Energy Efficiency; 65. Notes that the high-tech sector can play a crucial role in raising consumer awareness and increasing the willingness of consumers to contribute to energy efficiency by offering products that are both energy-efficient and of an improved standard; 66. Considers that energy service contracts between energy suppliers and consumers