classified in accordance with the scientific evidence of risk to human health; 12. Calls on the Member States to take specific measures to prevent and to combat the current exponential growth in advertisements for and the marketing of drugs on the Internet; 13. Instructs its President to forward this recommendation to the Council and to the Commission, for information, to the Member States and to the United Nations. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT On 16-17 April 2003, the ministerial segment of the Economic en Social Council of the United Nations will meet in Vienna. Another meeting is already planned for 2008. These meetings coincide with the two target dates for achieving goals agreed upon by the General Assembly in 1998. 2003 was established as target date for new or enhanced drug demand reduction strategies and programmes set up in close collaboration with public health, social welfare and law enforcement authorities. It is also the deadline for national legislation and programmes giving effect to the Action Plan against Illicit Manufacture, Trafficking and Abuse of Amphetamine-type Stimulants and their Precursors, adopted at the General Assembly in 1998. Moreover, States that have not yet done so, are requested to adopt by the year 2003 national money-laundering legislation and programmes in accordance with relevant provisions of the United Nations Convention against the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988, as well as the measures for countering money-laundering, adopted at the session in 1998. The second target date is 2008. At this date, the States aim to have eliminated, or at least significantly reduced, the illicit manufacture, marketing and trafficking of substances listed in the Conventions. Therefore, the conference in April 2003 can be seen as an important occasion, where current policies can be reaffirmed, or changes and reservations should be expressed and proposed. The European Union will be represented by an official delegation, hopefully composed by members of the three Institutions. It is in this framework that the European Parliament has decided to express it's opinion on some of the aspects debated in Vienna. Three UN conventions At the international level, drug policies are determined by three United Nations Conventions: the Single Convention on narcotic drugs of 1961, the Convention on psychotropic substances of 1971 and the Vienna Convention against the illicit traffic of narcotic substances of 1988. The Single Convention on narcotic drugs of 1961 states that the "possession, use, trade in, distribution, import, export, manufacture and the production of drugs is exclusively limited to medical and scientific purposes" . To achieve this result the Parties to this Convention have established guiding principles, the implementation of which is entrusted to international control organs. Essentially, the text provides for two complementary forms of intervention and control: the first, which is of a preventative nature concerns the licit, scientific and medical market; the second, of a repressive nature, concerns illicit traffic, drug abuse and drug addiction. Control of the licit market is based on a set of national and international preventive measures, which apply to substances classified as narcotic drugs (art. 2 and 3). These measures oblige