a national institution for independent external auditing; e) transparent, non-discriminatory procurement procedures ruling out all conflicts of interest. 2. The beneficiary country must undertake to comply with Article 53(6). Article 165 The implementation of actions by beneficiary third countries or international organisations is subject to scrutiny by the Commission. Such scrutiny shall be exercised either by prior approval, by ex post checks or by a combined procedure. Article 166 1. Actions carried out shall give rise to: a) a financing agreement drawn up between the Commission, acting for the Communities, and the beneficiary third country or countries or the bodies they have designated, hereinafter: "the beneficiaries"; or b) a contract or grant agreement with national or international public-sector bodies or natural or legal persons responsible for carrying out the actions. The contracts and agreements provided for in points (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall lay down the terms on which the external aid shall be managed by the contractor. 2. Financing agreements with the beneficiary third countries referred to in paragraph 1(a) shall be concluded by 31 December of year n + 1 at the latest, year n being the one in which the budgetary commitment was made. The individual contracts and agreements which implement such financing agreements shall be concluded no later than three years following the date of the budgetary commitment. Individual contracts and agreements relating to audit and evaluation may be concluded later. CHAPTER 3 Procurement Article 167 1. The provisions of Article 56 and of Chapter 1 of Title V of part one relating to the general provisions on procurement shall be applicable to contracts covered by this Title subject to the special provisions relating to thresholds and the arrangements for awarding external contracts laid down in the implementing rules. The contracting authorities for the purposes of this chapter shall be: a) the Commission on behalf of and for the account of one or more beneficiaries; b) the beneficiary or beneficiaries; c) a national or international public-sector body or natural or legal persons who have signed with the Commission a financing agreement or grant agreement for the implementation of external action. 2. The procurement procedures must be laid down in the financing agreements or grant agreements referred to in Article 166. Article 168 1. Participation in tendering procedures shall be open on equal terms to all persons coming within the scope of the Treaties and, in accordance with the specific provisions in the basic instruments governing the cooperation sector concerned, to all such natural and legal persons who are nationals of the beneficiary third countries or of any other third country as are expressly mentioned in those instruments. 2. In duly substantiated exceptional cases, it may be decided, on the basis of the specific conditions laid down in the basic acts governing cooperation, to allow third-country nationals other than those referred to in paragraph 1 to tender for contracts. 3. Where an agreement on widening the market for procurement of goods or services to which the Community is party applies, the contracts for procurement financed by the