would stand up in the European Court of Justice, which rules on the validity of EU legislation. Q5: What are the safeguards obtained by Parliament? A5: When a national judicial or competent administrative authority wants to cut off a user's access to the internet, a specific procedure must be followed. Before being cut off, users must have the opportunity to state their case and defend themselves before any decision is taken. The burden of proof rests with the party who lays charges and an appeal will be possible. Part of the negotiated text reads: "these measures may only be taken with due respect for the principle of presumption of innocence and the right to privacy . A prio r fair and impartial procedure shall be guaranteed , including the right to be heard of the person or persons concerned, subject to the need for appropriate conditions and procedural arrangements in duly substantiated cases of urgency in conformity with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The right to an effective and timely judicial review shall be guaranteed ." Q6: On what grounds could internet access be cut off? Does this concern only illegal downloading? A6: The new legislation does not give any explicit examples of internet use which are to be deemed illegal and hence count as potential grounds for cutting off internet access. It is the Member States that decide on the basis of their national legislation what constitutes a criminal act which can lead to cutting off a user's internet access . Examples might be the distribution of child pornography, terrorist content. Q7 Was internet access the only matter dealt with in this package? A7: Far from it! This was only the last remaining issue. Parliament and Council had already agreed on the bulk of the package in May this year. This covered: - improved consumer rights, e.g. by allowing customers to have their mobile telephone number transferred within one working day when changing operators; - requiring a user's consent before “cookies” are installed on his computer; - an obligation for providers to simplify their contracts; - easier access to the internet for people with disabilities. Q8. Does this prevent the adoption of national laws such as the "three strikes and you're out" law? A8: Not necessarily, but any law will have to provide for due process for anyone whose internet access a national authority wants to cut off. It will be impossible to cut off a person automatically without first giving them the chance to state their case. See Answer 5. Member States are free to have even stronger access guarantees than provided in the EU legislation if they wish, i.e. they will not be obliged to water down any existing legislation granting such guarantees. -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 BKG DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 BKG DOC XML V0//EN