rules regarding warnings on packaging and on toys themselves: to make them more visible, they must be preceded by the word "Warning". Toys for children under 36 months must meet higher safety standards. Some toys bearing the warning "Not suitable for children under three years" are clearly intended for such children (e.g. rattles). If a toy is obviously intended for the under-threes, it will no longer be possible to use this misleading claim. Allergenic fragrances The Commission proposal bans the use of some allergenic fragrances. MEPs did not back a total ban but reached a compromise expanding considerably the list of banned substances, traces of which must not exceed a certain limit. This will affect toys such as play dough and dolls. A limited number of substances listed will be allowed in educational toys designed to develop the senses, such as "olfactory, gustative and cosmetic games". The Internal Market Committee also tightened up the restrictions on substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction (CMR), saying these should be almost completely banned. The conditions for exemption were clarified and made stricter. The committee also banned the use of heavy metals such as arsenic, cadmium, chromium (VI), lead, mercury and organic tin in the manufacture of toys. Do not swallow Other amendments toughened up the clauses seeking to reduce the risk of suffocation or strangling by small detachable parts or toys contained in food such as chocolate eggs. Legal update The broad legal framework governing the sale of goods in the EU has recently been updated. The toy safety directive is the first to reflect the requirements of the new framework. The old directive "is not sufficient to deal with the risks from imported toys, since 95% of toys in Britain and 80% in the EU as whole are imported from China", said Arlene McCarthy (PES, UK), chair of the Internal Market Committee. The new legislation will require Member States to carry out stricter checks under Directive 2001/95/EC on general product safety. Next steps The committee's draft report will be put to the vote at Parliament's plenary in Strasbourg in December. According to the rapporteur, negotiations with the Council and Commission will start soon with the aim of reaching a first-reading agreement, so that "toys can be made safe as quickly as possible". Procedure: Co-decision, first reading -- Plenary vote: December II (Strasbourg) -- Adopted unanimously (40 votes in favour) 2008-11-03 Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection Chair Arlene McCarthy PES UK 20081103IPR41263 Internal Market Committee web site EN 1 LINK /activities/committees/homeCom.do?language=EN&body=IMCO -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 IPR DOC XML V0//EN