the Interinstitutional Framework Agreement, paragraph 16. It must be understood that the Citizens' Initiative gives the right to Europe's citizens to make a legislative proposal and it is distinct from the right of petition which has been enshrined in all EU Treaties since Maastricht. In Article 227 of the Lisbon Treaty, it states "Any citizen of the Union, and any natural or legal person residing or having its recognised office in a Member State, shall have the right to address, individually, or in association with other citizens or persons, a petition to the European Parliament on a matter which comes within the Union's fields of activity and which affects him, her or it directly." A petition is thus addressed by citizens or residents to the European Parliament. On that basis the Committee responsible considers regularly the issues raised by the citizens and residents of the Union and they are able to participate in the debates when their petition is discussed - often on subjects related to the problems with the application of European law, or issues related to their rights recognised under the Treaty. The Citizens' Initiative therefore presents an important and additional opportunity for all European citizens to have their voices heard. There is therefore a very broad agreement between the co-rapporteurs of PETI with the colleagues from AFCO. Only on four specific points of detail are their outstanding divergences and it is to be hoped that these can be overcome in the coming weeks following the votes in both committees so that the Parliament will be able to approach negotiations with Council on a very firm and united mandate. Diana Wallis & Gerald Häfner. October 22nd 2010. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Petitions calls on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1) The Treaty on European Union reinforces the citizenship of the Union and enhances further the democratic functioning of the Union by providing inter alia that every citizen shall have the right to participate in the democratic life of the Union and that not less than one million citizens who are nationals of a significant number of Member States may take the initiative of inviting the European Commission, within the framework of its powers, to submit any appropriate proposal on matters where citizens consider that a legal act of the Union is required for the purpose of implementing the Treaties . (1) The Treaty on European Union reinforces the citizenship of the Union and enhances further the democratic functioning of the Union by providing inter alia that every citizen shall have the right to participate in the democratic life of the Union by way of a European citizens' initiative. That procedure affords citizens the possibility of directly approaching the Commission, conferring on them a right of initiative similar to that exercised by the European Parliament and the Council . Justification It is superfluous to repeat Treaty provisions in a recital. The necessary references to the