committee or the same number of Members who are entitled to table it. Committees have a duty to ensure that motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to this Rule which meet the requirements laid down are followed up and duly referred to in documents produced as a result. Rule 114 Recommendations to the Council 1. A political group or at least forty Members may table a proposal for a recommendation to the Council concerning subjects under Titles V and VI of the EU Treaty, or where Parliament has not been consulted on an international agreement within the scope of Rule 83 or 84. 2. Such proposals shall be referred to the committee responsible for consideration. Where appropriate, the committee shall refer the matter to Parliament in accordance with the procedures laid down in these Rules. 3. Where it presents a report, the committee responsible shall submit to Parliament a proposal for a recommendation to the Council, together with a brief explanatory statement and, where appropriate, the opinions of the committees consulted. No prior authorisation from the Conference of Presidents is required for the application of this paragraph. 4. The provisions of Rule 90 or Rule 94 shall apply. Rule 115 Debates on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law 1. A committee, an interparliamentary delegation, a political group or at least forty Members may ask the President in writing for a debate to be held on an urgent case of a breach of human rights, democracy and the rule of law (Rule 130(3)). 2. The Conference of Presidents shall draw up a list of subjects to be included on the final draft agenda for the next debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law on the basis of the requests referred to in paragraph 1 and in accordance with the provisions of Annex III. The total number of subjects included on the agenda shall not exceed three, including sub-chapters. In accordance with the provisions of Rule 132, Parliament may abandon a topic due to be debated and replace it by an unscheduled topic in the debate. Motions for resolutions on the subjects chosen shall be tabled by the evening of the day on which the agenda is adopted. The President shall set the precise deadline for tabling such motions for resolutions. 3. The total speaking time for the political groups and Non-attached Members shall be allocated in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 142(2) and (3) within the maximum time for debates of 60 minutes per part-session. Any time remaining after taking account of the time required for the introduction of and vote on the motions for resolutions and the speaking time, if any, allocated to the Commission and Council, shall be broken down between the political groups and the Non-attached Members. 4. At the end of the debate there shall be an immediate vote. Rule 163 shall not apply. Votes taken pursuant to this Rule may be organised on a collective basis under the responsibility of the President and