(9) Experience has shown that it is necessary to adopt measures aimed at guaranteeing that only safe food is placed on the market and at ensuring that systems exist to identify and respond to food safety problems in order to ensure the protection of human health and the proper functioning of the internal market. Amendment 5 Recital 11 (11) In order to ensure the safety of food, it is necessary to consider all aspects of the food production chain as a continuum because each element may have a potential impact on food safety. (11) In order to ensure the safety of food, it is necessary to consider all aspects of the food production chain as a continuum , from the inputs used in agriculture, through the feeding of animals to the sale of foodstuffs to individuals and the catering industry, because each element may have a potential impact on food safety. Amendment 6 Recital 12 (12) Experience has shown that for this reason it is necessary to consider the production, manufacture and distribution of feed given to food-producing animals, since the inadvertent or deliberate contamination of feed, and adulteration or fraudulent or other bad practices in relation to it , may give rise to a direct or indirect impact on food safety. (12) Experience has shown that for this reason it is necessary to consider the production, manufacture, transport and distribution of feed products given to food-producing animals, since the inadvertent or deliberate contamination of feed products , and adulteration or fraudulent or other bad practices in relation to them , may give rise to a direct or indirect impact on food safety. Amendment 7 Recital 17 (17) It is recognised that scientific risk assessment alone cannot, in some cases, provide all the information on which a risk-management decision should be based, and that other factors relevant to the matter under consideration should legitimately be taken into account including societal, economic, ethical and environmental factors and the feasibility of controls. (17) It is recognised that scientific risk assessment alone cannot, in some cases, provide all the information on which a risk-management decision should be based, and that other factors relevant to the matter under consideration should legitimately be taken into account including societal, economic, traditional , ethical and environmental factors and the feasibility of controls. Amendment 8 Recital 18 (18) The precautionary principle has been invoked to ensure health protection in the Community, thereby giving rise to barriers to the free movement of food. By adopting a uniform basis throughout the Community, the possibility of an improper use of this principle is diminished. (18) The precautionary principle has been invoked to ensure health protection in the Community, thereby giving rise to barriers to the free movement of food. By adopting a uniform basis throughout the Community, the possibility of an improper use of this principle is diminished. In the interests of consumer protection, the precautionary principle should also apply to food and feed products imported from third countries. Amendment 10 Recital 22 a (new) (22a) In the light of recent food safety