deeper into poverty by spiralling food prices, C. whereas 854 million people in the world are hungry or malnourished (food insecurity), with 4 million more joining their ranks annually; whereas 170 million children are undernourished and 5,6 million children die each year as a result of malnutrition, D. whereas the current food crisis is also the consequence of increased speculation in agricultural and food commodities, E. whereas, according to the FAO, food represents 60-80% of consumer spending in developing countries and about 10-20% in industrialised nations; whereas the rise in food prices impacts most heavily on low-income households, F. whereas in recent decades the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization have imposed trade liberalisation in developing countries in order to impose a dominant model of large-scale, export-oriented agriculture at the expense of sustainable local food production and local food markets, G. whereas the price rises are exacerbating problems of accessibility, particularly for those on low or non-existent incomes, H. whereas demand for food is rising, especially in emerging countries such as China and India, as the world's population increases; whereas the planet, which according to the FAO can feed 12 billion people, is not short of food in overall terms; recalling that the wheat harvest and the rice harvest were very good in 2007; whereas only 1,01 billion tonnes of the 2007 harvest is likely to be used to feed people, while a large proportion will be used to feed animals (760 million tonnes) and some 100 million tonnes to produce agrofuels; whereas the latest estimates suggest that world cereal production should increase in 2008 by 2,6% to a record 2,164 billion tonnes; whereas, however, these estimates are dependent on favourable climatic conditions, I. whereas many developing countries are not realising their food production potential; whereas lack of investment in agriculture, rural development and training of farmers in developing countries and by international financial institutions have exposed small farmers in particular to unfair competition, which has increased their poverty and vulnerability and decreased their capacity to produce enough food, J. whereas one serious obstacle to increased agricultural output in developing countries is that small farmers often lack access to loans or microcredits for investment in improved seeds, fertilisers and irrigation mechanisms and the necessary range of crop protection tools to protect their harvests from pests and diseases, sometimes owing to the fact that they do not own their land and therefore do not have any collateral for loans, K. whereas the World Food Programme (WFP) has indicated that only USD 260 million of the USD 750 million needed to cover 2008 requirements has so far been firmly pledged, L. whereas the impact of rising commodity prices is becoming a destabilising force in the global economy and has already triggered riots in several countries, M. whereas rising food prices are intensifying the need for an integrated political response and a comprehensive strategy to tackle food problems, The right to food 1. Stresses the fundamental nature of the right to food and the need to improve access for