progress in the High Level Group during the last few years; considers that Japan must make significant commitments on removing non-tariff barriers and obstacles to access to Japanese public procurement before negotiations are launched; 3. Stresses that trade liberalisation between the EU and Japan should coexist with, rather than hinder, rules on the protection of public services and cultural diversity, and foster regulatory convergence and adherence to multilateral standards where they already exist; 4. Stresses that it is committed to strengthening trade relations between the EU and Japan by focusing on the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade and investment, including numerous restrictive rules and regulatory measures for EU companies in accessing the Japanese market; 5. Considers that, in trade negotiations with Japan, the Commission should concentrate, as one of its priorities, on removing those barriers and obstacles that are of greatest hindrance to market access for European SMEs; 6. Considers that reduction or elimination of Japanese tariffs on ICT products, including their parts and components, would step up competitiveness and generate new high-quality jobs in the EU; calls, in addition, for intensified mutual cooperation between the EU and Japan in the field of R&D and especially on IPR enforcement to accelerate the sharing of information on patents between the respective patent offices; 7. Considers that the Commission's level of ambition in respect of the EU-Japan FTA, and especially increasing market access for European businesses, should be complemented by jointly agreed comprehensive sustainable development commitments; 8. Emphasises that the EU-Japan FTA would not only yield benefits in terms of an increase in the bilateral trade in goods and services, but also foster cooperation on the EU's horizontal priorities, such as cooperation in the field of innovation, regulatory cooperation and the fight against market abuse, and, last but not least, cooperation on tackling broad environmental challenges; 9. Calls on the Member States and the Commission, in all trade discussions with Japan, to support and promote initiatives aimed at promoting human rights and social and environmental standards; 10. Is of the opinion that a comprehensive sustainability and impact assessment would help quantify existing benefits, as well as areas to step up progress on in current EU-Japan trade relations, especially in terms of their contribution to the creation of jobs in each country; asks the Commission to present a detailed sectoral analysis of this kind to both Parliament and the Council, thus paving the way for shared understanding of common interests and untapped potential in a transparent way; 11. Recommends that effective bilateral safeguard measures be included in the design of an EU-Japan FTA to prevent a surge in imports that would cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to EU and Japanese industry, especially in sensitive sectors such as the automotive, electronics, aviation and machinery industries; 12. Expresses its conviction that the EU-Japan FTA has the potential to lead to a win-win situation, beneficial for both economies; 13. Emphasises that Parliament will be asked to give its consent to the potential EU-Japan FTA; 14. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council