WRITTEN QUESTION P-5871/06 by Saïd El Khadraoui (PSE) to the Commission (5 January 2007) Subject: Rules on fluids on board aircraft and improving screening equipment Since 6 November, strict rules have been in force throughout the European Union relating to fluids in the hand luggage of air passengers. On the basis of Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 OJ L 355, 30.12.2002, p. 1 . , the EU's Regulatory Committee on Civil Aviation Security has decided to allow fluids at European airports only if packaged in containers no larger than 100 ml. In addition, the containers must be carried in transparent plastic bags. In a previous communication, the Commission has made it clear that these strict rules are necessary because at present no suitable equipment yet exists for detecting explosive fluids in luggage. Research into such explosives and the development of such equipment could render superfluous the strict rules on fluids in hand luggage which have just been agreed, which would be more convenient for many travellers. At present there are innumerable complaints about the application of the rules, and many travellers have fluids confiscated and have to put up with longer security procedures at airports. More rapid development of better detection equipment could therefore have many advantages for air passengers. I should therefore like to ask the Commission: 1. How much funding is being allocated to research into civil aviation security in the seventh framework programme of research and development and under other EU programmes? How much of that funding is intended for the development of better luggage screening equipment? Is there enough cooperation with the Member States and industry, which in many cases are performing their own research into screening equipment? 2. Is there some form of coordination between the functioning of the seventh framework programme and any other EU programmes on the one hand and the EU's Regulatory Committee on Civil Aviation Security on the other hand, to enable them to take account of one another's observations? 3. When does the Regulatory Committee intend to assess the measures relating to fluids in the hand luggage of air passengers at European airports? Will the European Parliament be consulted about this?