3): the committee received a comparative study on the adequacy of remedies available under UK and EU law for policyholders from the UK and other Member States in the context of the Equitable Life affair. The study provides a complete list of existing judicial and non-judicial remedy schemes available under UK and EU law and gives a qualitative judgment of their adequacy. The results of the study are included in the findings of the final report. 8. Delegation visits to Dublin and London The committee made two fact-finding visits - to Dublin on 6 October 2006 and to London on 16 October 2006 - as part of the evidence-gathering process in preparation for its report. In Dublin, MEPs met Irish Equitable Life policyholders and financial services regulators as well as the Irish Financial Services Ombudsman and the former Insurance Ombudsman of Ireland. In London, they met British policyholders, Ed Balls, Economic Secretary to the Treasury, the FSA chairman Callum McCarthy, the FOS, Mr Merricks, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, Ms Abraham, and others. Press conferences were held during both visits. 9. Workshops Two workshops were organized in the context of the investigation: WS 1: Presentation of studies, 5 October 2006, 9:00-12:30 § Study on transposition of EU life insurance directives, presentation by the authors (Taki Tridimas, professor, Sir John Lubbock Chair for Banking Law, Centre for Commercial Law Studies, Queen Mary University of London) § Study on regulatory systems, presentation by the authors (Jane Welch, Director, European Financial and Corporate Law Centre, British Institute of International and Comparative Law) § Study on redress mechanisms, presentation by the authors (Taki Tridimas, professor, Sir John Lubbock Chair for Banking law, Centre for Commercial Law Studies, Queen Mary University of London) WS 2: Transposition issues, 30 November 2006, 14.30-17.30 § Session 1: General Issues concerning the transposition of EU law into National law (Professor Stefan Vogenauer; Professor Bernard Steunenberg) § Session 2: Transposition of Financial Services Directives into National Law (Dr Manfred Westphal. Fin-Use; Dr Kern Alexander; Ms Lieve Lowet) PART II - TRANSPOSITION on the alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of Directive 92/96/EEC (the "Third Life Directive") by the UK and on its monitoring by the European Commission INDEX PART II I. Introduction I.1. The mandate I.2. The scope I.3. The directive in brief I.4. Specific actions II. Investigation into the correct transposition into UK law of the 3LD and its application/implementation by UK authorities in relation to the ELAS II.1. Analysis of transposition in detail in light of the evidence II.1.1. Key articles of the 3LD: 8, 10, 18, 25, 28, 31 II.1.2. Other articles of the 3LD II.1.3. Relevant articles from other Directives II.2. Further evidence on transposition II.2.1. Evidence by the Commission II.2.2. Evidence from the implementation study II.2.3. Other selected written and oral evidence on transposition Conclusions I. Introduction I.1. The mandate This part of the report (Part II) aims to provide the Committee of Inquiry into the Crisis of the Equitable Life Assurance Society (EQUI) with information on whether Directive 92/96/EEC Council Directive 92/96/EEC of 10 November 1992 on