Medicine at Washington University in St. Louis and in research laboratories at the NIH, in Paris, and in Madison, Wisconsin.", " He then joined the faculty at Washington University, where he directed the Division of Medical Genetics for 20 years.", " In 1984, he was recruited to St. Louis University School of Medicine and appointed Alice A. Doisy Professor and Chairman of the Edward A. Doisy Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.", " He chaired that Department for 26 years.", " In February 2007, he was also named the inaugural holder of the James B. and Joan C. Peters Endowed Chair in Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.", " He became an Emeritus Professor in July 2014." ] ], [ "Joyce Brown (netballer)", [ "Joyce Alice Brown, OAM (born 1938) is an Australian netball player and coach, who has both coached and captained the Australia national netball team." ] ], [ "Roy Fitzsimmons", [ "Roy G. Fitzsimmons (1916 – May 5, 1945) was an American Polar Explorer and Geophysicist.", " Born LeRoy Fitzsimmons, he was the youngest child of John and Alice Brown Fitzsimmons and was one of 10 children." ] ], [ "Alice Brown Chittenden", [ "Alice Brown Chittenden (October 14, 1859 - October 13, 1944) was an American painter based in San Francisco, California who specialized in flowers, portraits, and landscapes.", " Her life's work was a collection of botanicals depicting California wildflowers, for which she is renowned and received gold and silver medals at expositions.", " She taught at the Mark Hopkins Institute of Art (now the San Francisco Art Institute) from 1897 to 1941." ] ], [ "Edward and Elaine Brown", [ "Edward Lewis Brown (born 1942) and his wife, Elaine Alice Brown (born c. 1940), residents of the state of New Hampshire, gained national news media attention as tax protesters in early 2007 for refusing to pay the U.S. federal income tax and subsequently refusing to surrender to federal government agents after having been convicted of tax crimes.", " After the conviction and sentencing, a long, armed standoff with federal law enforcement authorities at their New Hampshire residence ended with the arrest of Edward and Elaine Brown on October 4, 2007.", " In July 2009, while serving their sentences for the tax crimes, the Browns were found guilty by a federal district court jury of additional criminal charges arising from their conduct during the standoff." ] ] ] }