to tell at this stage of renewed consultation whether the intention to transfer the content of Article 4 to the recitals Council document 14432/03, footnote 1, p. 4. will be satisfactory. The other concerns the reintroduction of an amendment giving Member States the opportunity, if they so wish, to issue a limited residence permit for family members accompanying the victim (Article 10, para.2a (new)). AMENDMENTS The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market calls on the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Council text Not yet published in OJ. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Article 4 deleted Safeguard clause This Directive shall be without prejudice to the protection extended to refugees, to beneficiaries of subsidiary protection and persons seeking international protection under international refugee law and without prejudice to other human rights instruments, such as, in particular, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Justification Reinstates Amendment 15 to Article 4 in A5-0397/2002 . Amendment 2 Article 10, paragraph 2 a (new) 2a. When granting a residence permit, the Member States shall consider granting family members accompanying the victim a residence permit limited to this period. Justification Reinstates Amendment 25 to Article 10(4) in A5-0397/2002 . 18 February 2004 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON WOMEN’S RIGHTS AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES for the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the proposal for a Council directive on the residence permit issued to third-country nationals victims of trafficking in human beings or to third-country nationals who have been the subjects of an action to facilitate illegal immigration who cooperate with the competent authorities (14432/2003 – C5-0557/2003 – 2002/0043(CNS)) (Repeat consultation) Draftswoman: Marialiese Flemming PROCEDURE At its meeting of 4 December 2003 the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities appointed Marialiese Flemming draftswoman. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 20 January and 18 February 2004. At the latter meeting it adopted the following amendments unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Anna Karamanou (chairwoman), Marianne Eriksson (vice-chairwoman), Marialiese Flemming (draftswoman, represented by Ria G.H.C. Oomen-Ruijten), Regina Bastos, Lone Dybkjær, Marie-Hélène Gillig (for Christa Prets), Koldo Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, Lissy Gröner, Mary Honeyball, Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, Miet Smet, Patsy Sörensen, Joke Swiebel, Elena Valenciano Martínez-Orozco and Anne E.M. Van Lancker (for Olga Zrihen Zaari) SHORT JUSTIFICATION In February 2002 the Council consulted Parliament on the proposal for a Council directive on the short-term residence permit issued to victims of action to facilitate illegal immigration or trafficking in human beings who cooperate with the competent authorities. On 5 December 2002 Parliament adopted a resolution on that subject. On 13 November 2003 the Council reached a political agreement amending key points of the original Commission proposal. Given that substantial changes had been made to the Commission proposal, the Council decided to consult Parliament once again. The aim of the proposal for a directive is to combat illegal immigration involving gangs