market and used in another Member State (Member State of introduction), if that Member State determines that the plant protection product is identical in composition to a plant protection product already authorised in the Member State of introduction (reference product). The application shall be submitted to the regulatory authority in the Member State of introduction (competent authority). 2. A parallel trade permit shall be granted within 90 working days after receiving a complete application. Member States shall on request provide each other with the information necessary to assess identicality within 10 working days of receiving the request. The procedure for granting a parallel trade permit shall be interrupted from the day the request for information is sent to the competent authority of the Member State of origin until the complete information required is delivered to the competent authority. 3. Member States shall grant a parallel trade permit under a simplified procedure if the plant protection product to be introduced is identical to the reference product in specification and content of the active substances, safeners and synergists, in type of formulation and in composition of the plant protection product. 4. Active substances, safeners and synergists shall be considered as identical in terms of paragraph 3 if: a) they have been manufactured by the same company or by an associated undertaking or under licence according to the same manufacturing process; and b) they have either the same specification, or specifications approved to be equivalent under the procedure referred to in Article 39. 5. The plant protection product to be introduced and the reference product shall be considered as identical in composition in terms of paragraph 3 if: a) the co-formulants are identical in all respects; or b) varying co-formulants do not have more harmful effects within the meaning of Article 4(3) with due regard, in particular, to differences which may exist in conditions relating to agriculture, plant health and the environment, in particular climatic conditions, relevant to the use of the product. 6. The criteria and the procedures for evaluating to what extent the compositions are identical may be described in detail in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83(3). 7. The application for a parallel trade permit shall include the following: - Member State of origin, - name and address of the applicant, - name and address of a contact person in the Member State of introduction, if the applicant is not established there, - name to be given to the plant protection product to be distributed in the Member State of introduction, - name and registration number of the plant protection product in the Member State of origin, - name and address of the authorisation holder in the Member State of origin, - original instructions for use with which the plant protection product to be introduced is distributed in the Member State of origin if it is considered as necessary for the examination by the competent authority. The competent authority may require a translation of the relevant parts of the original instructions for use, - name and registration number