Answer given by Mrs Fischer Boel on behalf of the Commission (19 April 2007) The Commission knows that the fruit and vegetables sector faces strong competition from third countries products. In the context of the reform, the Commission has proposed the inclusion of the fruit and vegetables sector in the single payment scheme in order to improve the competitiveness of the sector and to ensure stability of income for producers. Moreover, the Commission is aware that, the sector is particularly sensitive to crises and farmers need to react very fast to avoid drops in prices. The Commission has studied this closely in order to make the best choice for the sector. Therefore, concerning crisis management, the Commission has proposed new tools apart from withdrawals not only to solve but also to prevent crisis. Such measures are green harvesting or non harvesting, promotion and communication, training measures, harvest insurance and support for the administrative cost of setting up mutual funds. Producers will have a wide range of quick response tools to sort out the short term crises in the fruit and vegetables sector. According to Article 26 of Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2005 on maximum residue levels of pesticides in or on food and feed of plant and animal origin and amending Council Directive 91/414/EEC, OJ L 70, 16.3.2005. on maximum residue levels (MRLs) of pesticides in or on food and feed of plant and animal origin, it is the responsibility of the Member States to carry out official controls on pesticide residues in order to enforce compliance with set MRLs and to ensure consumer protection. The Food and Veterinary Office (FVO) of the Commission, carries out inspections in the Member States with the objective, among other things, to evaluate the control systems put in place in particular for pesticide residues. Moreover, with the coming into force of Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of the Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules, OJ L 165, 30.4.2004. on official control performed to ensure the verification of compliance with food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare rules, FVO carries out inspections also in third countries to evaluate the control on residues in foodstuffs intended for export. Any identified shortcomings are reported to the competent authorities of the concerned country and follow up actions are recommended and further investigated. The inspection reports are available on the website of the FVO at the following address: http://ec.europa.eu/food/index_en.htm