9999/C Q999 E/267 WRITTEN QUESTION E-3957/03 by José Ribeiro e Castro (UEN) to the Council (12 December 2003) Subject: Russia - parliamentary elections According to media reports the international observers who were present at the recent parliamentary elections in Russia - in particular the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe, which despatched 600 observers - expressed concern at the outcome and the methods used during the election campaign. Although they do not doubt that the elections were free, they question whether they were fair. According to the preliminary results the United Russia (UR) party (which is pro-Kremlin and an ally of the President, Vladimir Putin) was the major victor in the elections. The UR won approximately 37% of the votes for the seats in the Duma (the lower parliamentary chamber). Vladimir Zhirinovski's LDP secured approximately 12% of the votes and was followed in third place by the ultra-nationalist Motherland party (formed some months ago with the Kremlin's support). which was fighting its first election and which secured 9% of the vote. David Atkinson (leader of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly observer team) explained to journalists that, throughout the entire campaign, public funds (i.e. taxpayers' contributions) and public television were placed at the disposal of certain political groups, which led the observers to deem the election 'free, but manifestly unfair'. Acknowledging that there had been 'an unfair atmosphere to the other parties and candidates' and emphasising that the vote 'failed to meet international standards', the chairman of the OSCE, Bruce George, stated that 'in this election the enormous advantage of incumbency and access to state equipment, resources and buildings led to the election result being overwhelmingly distorted. This constituted 'a regression in the democratisation process in Russia'. In view of the above, would the Council answer the following questions? - What information does the Council hold regarding the fairness and the freedom of the electoral procedure in Russia? - In view of the concerns expressed by observers and opposition parties, what action has the Council taken (or is it intending to take) vis-à-vis the Russian authorities? - What effect does the Council believe the above criticisms may have on Moscow's efforts to gain international credibility? - To what extent may relations between the EU and Russia be affected?