Question for written answer E-007704/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Nikolaos Chountis (GUE/NGL) (9 August 2011) Subject: Destruction of the river Almiros wetlands in the prefecture of Heraklion, Crete The river Almiros wetlands located in the Prefecture of Heraklion, Crete, form an ecosystem of great biological importance, since 21 types of habitat have been recorded there, three of which are designated priority natural habitats at European level under Directive 92/43/EEC. According to complaints made by local bodies and residents, illegal activities have been taking place in these wetlands in recent years. In particular, they have reported the illegal construction of a Greek Electricity Board plant there, the storage of fuel tanks, the construction of hotels and other buildings, and recently the clearing and filling-in of a 0.4 ha site located near the river delta and the construction of a road to provide access to a restaurant car park. Given that the river Almiros wetlands are the most important natural resource of the region of Heraklion as a whole and one of the most important of Crete, that they have been designated part of the Natura 2000 network (GR 4310001) under Directive 92/43/EEC and Commission Decision 2008/335/EK, that Greece was found to be in breach of EC law by the European Court of Justice (2005) for the environmental destruction of the Linoperamata area, which is located within the Almiros river wetlands, and finally that it has received EU funding under the Operational Programme on the Environment to develop infrastructure so as to protect and enhance the wetlands, will the Commission say: 1. Is it aware of the situation in the river Almiros wetlands? How does it view the presence of the aforementioned facilities and activities in these wetlands? 2. Does it consider that the objectives of the co-funded programme on the environment have been achieved? 3. What steps will it take to protect an area that has been designated part of the Natura network and faces destruction due to illegal activities?