required to return corrections to typescripts of their speeches to the Secretariat within one week. 3. The verbatim report shall be published as an annex to the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. Members may request extracts of the verbatim report to be translated at short notice. Rule 173 a Audiovisual record of proceedings Immediately after the sitting, an audiovisual record of the proceedings, including the soundtrack from all interpretation booths, shall be produced and made available on the Internet. TITLE VII COMMITTEES AND DELEGATIONS CHAPTER 1 COMMITTEES - SETTING UP AND POWERS Rule 174 Setting up of standing committees On a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, Parliament shall set up standing committees whose powers shall be defined in an annex to the Rules of Procedure See Annex VI. . Their members shall be elected during the first part-session following the re-election of Parliament and again two and a half years thereafter. The powers of standing committees can be determined at a time other than that at which the committee is set up. Rule 175 Setting up of temporary committees On a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, Parliament may at any time set up temporary committees, whose powers, composition and term of office shall be defined at the same time as the decision to set them up is taken; their term of office may not exceed twelve months, except where Parliament extends that term on its expiry. As the powers, composition and term of office of temporary committees are decided at the same time as these committees are set up, Parliament cannot subsequently decide to alter their powers either by increasing or reducing them. Rule 176 Committees of inquiry 1. Parliament may, at the request of one-quarter of its component Members, set up a committee of inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions of Community law or alleged maladministration in the application of Community law which would appear to be the act of an institution or body of the European Communities, of a public administrative body of a Member State, or of persons empowered by Community law to implement that law. The decision to set up a committee of inquiry shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union within one month. In addition, Parliament shall take all the necessary steps to make this decision as widely known as possible. 2. The modus operandi of a committee of inquiry shall be governed by the provisions of these Rules relating to committees, save as otherwise specifically provided for in this Rule and in the Decision of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission of 19 April 1995 on the detailed provisions governing the exercise of the European Parliament's right of inquiry which is annexed to these Rules See Annex VIII. . 3. The request to set up a committee of inquiry must specify precisely the subject of the inquiry and include a detailed statement of the grounds for it. Parliament, on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents, shall decide whether to set up a committee and, if it