Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Calls on the Member States, in accordance with its resolution of 24 February 2005 on the EU's priorities and recommendations for the 61st session of the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva P6_TA(2005)0051 . and the European Economic and Social Committee opinion SOC/173, to ratify the UN Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of their Families; calls on the Commission to base its recommendations regarding the rights of migrant workers and their families on this Convention, which is aimed at integrating migrant workers; 2. Points out that economic migration is necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy and to ensure the European Union's economic growth; 3. Stresses that payments transferred by migrants from developing countries to their home countries significantly exceed development aid payments and are of huge importance to achieving the Millennium Goal of eradicating poverty and urges the relevant institutions to make the transfer of payments easier by charging the lowest possible fees; 4. Welcomes the planned phasing-in of a Community policy to regulate economic migration, provided that it meets the strictest requirements of humane treatment for all migrants; firmly rejects the creation of reception camps for migrants in Libya or other countries outside Europe; 5. Also points out that the harmonisation of immigration policies depends on establishing certain common criteria and that any measure in this sphere must be accompanied by prior information and specific integration programmes facilitating the integration of immigrants in the society of the host country; 6. Rejects the idea of adopting measures to regulate economic migration only after the legitimate demand of freedom of movement for all EU citizens has been met; 7. Calls on the Commission to open a dialogue with the governments of countries of origin without delay, in order to achieve balanced legislation that allows migration and enables professional experience to be developed; calls on it, within the context of this dialogue, to enhance the development of specific measures in the sectors particularly affected by the brain drain, in accordance with the countries concerned; 8. Stresses the importance of and need to strengthen cooperation not only between the EU and the countries of origin, but also between the countries of origin themselves, especially among the countries included in the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP), between the ACP countries and between the former and the latter; 9. Calls on the Commission to consider the option of limited residence permits for job-seekers, in order to reduce unofficial immigration; 10. Expects the Commission, when taking measures against organised trafficking in human beings from developing countries, not to criminalise the victims, but to focus on punishing the perpetrators; notes that many women who are victims of human trafficking have no access to legal or social protection; calls on the Member States to grant these women the possibility of long-term residence; 11. Welcomes the simplification of instruments to ensure cross-border cooperation and