of protection. The European Strategy for the Danube Region aims at creating a liveable, sustainable and at the same time developed, prosperous Danube Region by managing environmental risks such as floods and industrial pollution, preserving the quality and quantity of water reserves under control and ensuring their sustainable use, preserving biodiversity, landscapes and the quality of air and soils; 19. Stresses that smart economic development and investments are very promising areas of economic growth. Green technologies and ecological modernisation, such as improved energy efficiency and better waste management can contribute to the sustainable development of the region and the reduction of the negative environmental impacts of economic activity; 20. Emphasizes that the Danube Region is Europe’s gate to the Western Balkans therefore the European Strategy for the Danube Region is not only conducive to the improvement of neighbourhood relations in Central and South-Eastern Europe but provides important added value in the EU’s Eastern European policy, thus represents an excellent opportunity for the entire Union to fortify its political and economic cooperation with the Balkans, and, as a consequence, to contribute to the expansion and consolidation of the process of European integration in the region; 21. Acknowledges the important role played by the Danube Strategy in the promotion of green economy, green innovation and in a larger sense research and innovation aiming at the emergence of a new, competitive low-carbon economy, and a stronger presence of environmental friendly approaches in the development of cross-border industrial cooperation projects; 22. Underlines that environmentally friendly transport modes as rail or inland waterway transport shall gain priority while planning the transport system of the region, with full respect to all relevant elements of applicable EU acquis; 23. Calls the Commission and the Member States to improve the infrastructure and economic performance of the Danube region and complete the implementation of TEN-T Priority Projects -related to the Danube Region- on time and in an environmentally sustainable way; 24. Underlines that the “Joint Statement on the Development of Inland Navigation and Environmental Protection in the Danube River Basin” was developed by the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River, the Danube Commission and the International Sava River Basin Commission and it offers general advice for waterway infrastructure projects in order to address both technical planners and other interested stakeholders who want to be involved in a waterway development planning process. These guidelines call for an integrated planning team, to assess the needs and to include as much as possible win-win measures for both improving navigation and the ecological status; 25. Encourages the enhancement of Danube’s cultural environment by promoting cultural dialogue, supporting university exchange programmes and youth projects based on transnational cooperation, fostering sustainable tourism, and protecting the historical and built heritage; 26. Stresses the necessity of a coordinated approach with a view to more efficient use of all available EU funds in the countries of the Danube Region so that the goals of the Strategy can be fulfilled to the best possible extents; 27. Stresses that expenditures budgeted by the Structural Funds in 2007-2013 aiming the