Answer given by Mr Prodi on behalf of the Commission (19 November 2004) The exhibition ‘The image of Europe’, inaugurated on 13 September 2004 on Rond Point Schuman, is an initiative of the Dutch Presidency with the support of the Commission. The contents of the exhibition were the work of the Office of Metropolitan Architecture (OMA) in Rotterdam. The Commission, the Dutch Presidency and the OMA agreed that there would not be any censorship of the graphic materials and exhibits presented, since this was part of the artist’s responsibility and freedom. They were never intended to translate in any way the official view either of the Dutch Government or of the Commission. Neither is it the policy of the Commission to finance only those initiatives which do translate its own official position. In terms of cost, the Dutch Presidency financed the exhibition while the Commission helped in practical ways such as facilitating contacts with the Belgian authorities to obtain the authorisations required, organising meetings, providing some of the information for the exhibits, the translation of some of the texts, and security services. The Dutch Presidency has indicated that the cost for the OMA’s work was € 400.000; the Commission is not paying anything at all towards this. Questions about the procurement procedure used in this case should be put to the Dutch Presidency. From the Commission side, the quality and originality of the work of Rem Koolhaas of the OMA was well known and appreciated. The Commission’s decision to support this exhibition was a political one. The image of Europe is a collective construction, which should comprise many different messages, of which the official one coming from the European Institutions is only one. To improve communication about Europe we should allow other points of view to be freely heard as well, and allow for different reactions: this collective process is a healthy one and needs to be supported by the Institutions as a natural part of the democratic process, of the pluralism that feeds informed debate and choice. By liking and disliking the proposed images we become more aware of what we want, and this is good for Europe and for the participation of citizens in the European project.