Answer given by Ms Hübner on behalf of the Commission (21 September 2006) As the Honourable Member has mentioned, the current Structural Funds programmes across the European Union place strong emphasis on the elimination of inequalities and promotion of equality in pursuing the objective of regional economic development. Equal opportunities is a cross-cutting theme built into all priorities and measures of the Welsh programmes for the 2000‑06 period, ensuring equal access for all to education, training and employment opportunities offered by the programmes. The Potentia project is a good example of an EU‑funded project that aims to support target groups such as lone parents, ethnic minority groups, disabled people, the over‑50s and young people to overcome barriers to self-employment. The Regulation Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 of 11 July 2006 laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999. on the general provisions for the Structural Funds for the 2007‑13 period states that the Member States and Commission shall ensure equality during the various stages of implementing the Funds, and also prevent any discrimination on the basis of gender, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation in both implementing the funds and providing access to them. When negotiating the future EU Structural Funds programmes, the Commission will ensure that the principle of non-discrimination is respected. The European Social Fund (ESF) specifically aims at strengthening economic and social cohesion by improving employment opportunities. ‘Enhanced access to employment’ (actions to promote an inclusive labour market and to address problems such as economic inactivity among ethnic minorities) is one of the ESF priorities for the Convergence and Regional Competitiveness and Employment objectives for the 2007‑13 programmes. A further ESF priority to ‘reinforce social inclusion’ will promote pathways to integration and re-entry into employment for disadvantaged people such as minorities. Moreover, the Community Strategic Guidelines for Cohesion, under the guideline ‘Attract and retain more people in employment and modernise social protection systems’, call upon the Member States to ‘ensure inclusive labour markets, enhance work attractiveness, and make work pay for job-seekers, including disadvantaged people, and the inactive.’ However, the selection of programme priorities is the responsibility of Member States so that they can address their specific challenges. The precise policy mix will therefore vary according to the local context, as regions can concentrate on priorities that are the most appropriate in terms of addressing their problems and contributing to the growth and jobs agenda. As the preparation of Operational Programmes is currently under way in the Member States, it would be advisable for the Honourable Member to contact the Welsh European Funding Office regarding these issues and how they will be addressed in the programmes for 2007‑13. Primary responsibility for the implementation of projects co-financed by European funds in Wales will lie entirely with the Welsh authorities. The Commission will have no direct involvement in decisions on individual projects, either on their selection or implementation.