Amendment 35 Proposal for a regulation Article 38 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 38b Compliance 1. Every Member State shall ensure that the management of branches of an SPE and the supervisory or administrative bodies of subsidiaries and of participating companies which are situated within its territory and the employees' representatives or, as the case may be, the employees themselves fulfil the obligations laid down by this Regulation, regardless of whether the SPE has its registered office within that territory. 2. Member States shall provide for appropriate sanctions to be applied in the event of failure to comply with this Regulation. In particular, they shall ensure that administrative or legal procedures are available to enable the obligations deriving from this Regulation to be enforced. Amendment 36 Proposal for a regulation Article 38 c (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 38c Link between this Regulation and other provisions 1. Where an SPE is a Community-scale undertaking or a controlling undertaking of a Community-scale group of undertakings within the meaning of Directive 94/45/EC or of Directive 97/74/EC extending the application of that Directive to the United Kingdom, the provisions of these Directives and the provisions transposing them into national law shall not apply to them or to their subsidiaries. However, where the special negotiating body decides in accordance with Article 38(3) (e) not to open negotiations or to terminate negotiations already opened, Directive 94/45/EC or Directive 97/74/EC and the provisions transposing them into national law shall apply. 2. This Regulation is without prejudice to: (a) any existing rights of involvement of employees provided for by national legislation and/or practice in the Member States and enjoyed by employees of the SPE and its subsidiaries and branches, other than participation in the bodies of the SPE; (b) the provisions on participation in the bodies laid down by national legislation and/or practice applicable to the subsidiaries of the SPE. 3. In order to preserve the rights referred to in paragraph 3, Member States may take the necessary measures to guarantee that the structures of employee representation in participating companies which will cease to exist as separate legal entities are maintained after the registration of the SPE. PROCEDURE Title Statute for a European private company References COM(2008)0396 – C6-0283/2008 – 2008/0130(CNS) Committee responsible JURI Opinion by Date announced in plenary EMPL 9.10.2008 Drafts(wo)man Date appointed Harald Ettl 9.9.2008 Discussed in committee 6.10.2008 4.11.2008 Date adopted 5.11.2008 Result of final vote +: –: 0: 28 2 14 Members present for the final vote Jan Andersson, Iles Braghetto, Philip Bushill-Matthews, Alejandro Cercas, Ole Christensen, Derek Roland Clark, Luigi Cocilovo, Jean Louis Cottigny, Jan Cremers, Proinsias De Rossa, Harald Ettl, Richard Falbr, Carlo Fatuzzo, Ilda Figueiredo, Joel Hasse Ferreira, Stephen Hughes, Karin Jöns, Sajjad Karim, Jean Lambert, Bernard Lehideux, Elizabeth Lynne, Thomas Mann, Jan Tadeusz Masiel, Elisabeth Morin, Juan Andrés Naranjo Escobar, Csaba Őry, Siiri Oviir, Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, Pier Antonio Panzeri, Elisabeth Schroedter, José Albino Silva Peneda, Jean Spautz, Gabriele Stauner, Ewa Tomaszewska, Anne Van Lancker, Gabriele Zimmer Substitute(s) present for the final vote Françoise