WRITTEN QUESTION E-0182/05 by Paul van Buitenen (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (26 January 2005) Subject: Intra-mural companies operating on Commission premises A number of companies contracted by the Commission are either fully or partially ‘based’ on the institution's premises, and are, for the most part, not billed either for the equipment or infrastructure (PCs, photocopiers, telephones) made available to them, although by contract their work should be carried out on the premises of the firm contracted. 1. Could the Commission specify, for Brussels and Luxembourg: — the number of companies which are currently either partially or totally intra-mural, the corresponding number of employees and the surface area of office space occupied by these companies, — the steps it intends to take to put an end to this situation, which not only puts a strain on the Community budget, but also entails undue profit for the companies contracted. 2. A number of companies have multiple contracts running concurrently at least in part with the different Directorates-General of the Commission. More often than not, the types of services contracted are very similar from one DG to another (creation of web-sites, portals, etc). What is the Commission doing to avoid ‘unique’ services of this type being covered by multiple invoices and to prevent these companies thus being in a position to bid below the real cost of an operation, which could explain why they seem to have been awarded multiple contracts over a very short time and in a highly competitive market? 3. This also runs a not‑insignificant risk of money laundering. Could the Commission indicate the name of companies which have or have had outstanding contracts with the Commission (all Directorates-General together) of over EUR 5 m, the dates these contracts were signed, the Directorates-General or services concerned, the nature of the services involved in these contracts, and the monitoring arrangements in place to prevent multiple invoicing?