within the existing terms of reference of the Union * See Commission communication of 11 April 2004 COM(2004)6 * and the environment is not included among the areas of exclusive competence of the Union (see Articles 1-13 and 1-14). Lastly, on the issue of respect for human rights as such, since the Charter of Fundamental Rights has no binding force, we can only advise referral to the Court in Strasbourg. However, this debate must not make us overlook either the urgency of the situation or the response to be given to an extremely large number of existing property owners fearful of suffering unacceptable loss without mentioning those who already believe that they have been despoiled. It is plain that, since a case-by-case review is outside the capacity and responsibility of European bodies, we can only confine ourselves to making a strong recommendation calling on the Community of Valencia not only to improve its law - which is already under way - but also to initiate a procedure for assessing situations on a case-by-case basis and putting in place appropriate rectifying measures and compensation. The Committee on Petitions, after considering the complaints, travelled to the area in question and was impressed by the number and nature of the protests lodged by a large number of citizens both Spanish and from the majority of European countries. Without being in a position to form an opinion on the substance of the matter which would involve obtaining legal and economic expert opinions outside the scope of the Committee on Petitions, it is nevertheless plain to everyone - including the Community of Valencia - that excesses and probably abuses did occur. This warrants implementation of arrangements for rectifying the situation. The European Parliament has a duty to respond while staying within its powers so as not to create a level of expectation among the citizens which might only be disappointed. In conclusion, there seems to be an urgent need: 1. to start a procedure identifying what is factual and within Community competence (tendering) and which rules out any kind of judgment as to the lawfulness of the adopted project; 2. to make an appeal to the Community of Valencia and to the municipalities concerned recording the complaints received and the strength of feeling of the members of the Committee on Petitions at what appears both in terms of substance and of form to be a lack of consideration and respect for the European citizens concerned; 3. to formulate Parliament’s wish that a process of rectification and compensation be implemented for injustices that have been proven; 4. to make an appeal that the rights of the environment so cherished by the whole of the European Union be taken into account in the projects that are in progress. PROCEDURE Title The alleged abuse of the Valencian Land Law known as the LRAU and its effect on European citizens (Petitions 609/2003, 732/2003, 985/2002, 1112/2002, 107/2004 and others) Procedure number 2004/2208(INI) Basis in Rules of Procedure Rule 192(1) Committee responsible Date authorisation announced in plenary PETI 18.11.2004 Committee(s) asked for opinion(s)