Answer given by Ms Kroes on behalf of the Commission (23 March 2009) According to Article 82 of the EC Treaty, any abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position within the common market or in a substantial part of it shall be prohibited as incompatible with the common market in so far as it may affect trade between Member States. The Commission is empowered by the EC Treaty to apply these prohibition rules and enjoys a number of investigative powers to that end. It may also impose fines on undertakings that violate EU antitrust rules. Investigations based exclusively on Article 82 currently make up one quarter of the Commission's ongoing anti-trust cases. Taking into account cases involving both Article 81 — which prohibits anti-competitive agreements — and Article 82, between one third and one half of the Commission's recent cases involve Article 82. The Honourable Member is right that one way in which dominant undertakings may inhibit entry or expansion on the market of its competitors, notably by raising their costs, is to initiate legal proceedings. Legal action which is brought, regardless of its merits, solely to harass competitors (also referred to as ‘vexatious litigation’) can in certain circumstances be considered as an abuse of dominant position. Whether it constitutes an abuse depends on the facts and circumstances specific to the case being investigated. The Commission has not taken any general, across-the-broad initiatives to prevent legal systems from being used by dominant firms to restrict competition, just like it has not taken such general initiatives in relation to other forms of possible abuses of Article 82 such as tying or predatory pricing. The Commission acts by taking forward cases which, if appealed to the European Courts, can be overturned or upheld. In the latter case they result in case law that signals to dominant undertakings (in more detail than the Treaty provisions) what actions will be considered illegal under Article 82. The Commission has investigated instances of alleged vexatious litigation See in particular the Judgment of the Court of First Instance (CFI) of 17 July 1998, ITT Promedia NV v Commission of the European Communities, European Court reports 1998 Page II‑02937. In this Judgment the CFI stated that access to the Court is a fundamental right and a general principle ensuring the rule of law, it is only in wholly exceptional circumstances that the fact that legal proceedings are brought is capable of constituting an abuse of a dominant position within the meaning of Article 82 of the EC Treaty. This Judgment followed an appeal against a Decision of the Commission which laid down two cumulative criteria for determining in which cases bringing such legal proceedings would constitute an abuse: first, the legal action cannot reasonably be considered as an attempt to establish the rights of the undertaking concerned, and can therefore only serve to harass the competitor; and, second, the legal action must be conceived in the framework of a plan whose goal is to eliminate competition. Since the two criteria constitute an exception to the principle of