and medicine. B) Radioactive waste management and decommissioning: development of radioactive waste conditioning and storage technologies and long-term legal and financing schemes on the basis of polluter-pays and precautionary principles . C) Safeguards techniques and technologies D) Scientific and technical support to the policy making process in the nuclear field, while adapting to changing policy demands. The second programme shall cover the activities of the Joint Research Centre in the field of nuclear energy. The programme shall cover the activities of the Joint Research Centre in the field of nuclear energy. Justification The FP7-Euratom should focus only on radiation protection, radioactive waste management and decommissioning, safeguards techniques and technologies and scientific and technical support to the policy making process. The development of the new reactor systems, if any, should be funded by the nuclear utilities themselves. Since there is overlapping between Community and JRC research it this field of competence, the amendment suggests to establish one specific programme to be shared with the JRC instead of two programmes. Amendment 5 Article 2, paragraph 2, point (b a) (new) ( ba ) Radiation protection with the objective of promoting a safety culture and corresponding research to ensure the proper assessment of risk accompanying the use of radiation in industry and medicine. Justification Research should not generally be promotional in nature, and promoting nuclear fission technology as such is therefore rejected. The utmost importance must be attached to a suitable focus in the field of radiation protection, and consequently a specific approach should be introduced with its own budget . Amendment 6 Article 3, paragraph 1 1. The overall amount for the implementation of the seventh framework programme for the period 2007 to 2011 shall be EUR 3092 million. That amount shall be distributed as follows (in EUR million): 1. The overall amount for the implementation of the seventh framework programme for the period 2007 to 2011 shall be EUR 310 million. That amount shall be distributed as follows (in EUR million): (a) Fusion energy research - 2159 (a) Radiation protection - 155 (b) Nuclear Fission and radiation protection - 394 (b) Radioactive waste 65 (c) Nuclear Activities of the Joint Research Centre 539 (c) Safeguards techniques and technologies 45 (d)Scientific and technical support 45 Justification Public money should be invested where R &D is the most appropriate. Radiation protection should therefore receive the bulk of the FP-7 Euratom. The changes of categories to be covered by the FP7 are explained in Amendment 4 above. Amendment 7 Annex 1, Title SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL OBJECTIVES, THEMES AND ACTIVITIES SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL OBJECTIVES, THEMES AND ACTIVITIES TO BE SHARED WITH THE JOINT RESEARCH CENTRE Justification Same justification as Amendment 4. Amendment 8 Annex 1 INTRODUCTION deleted The 7 th EURATOM Research Framework Programme is organised in two parts corresponding to the “’indirect” actions on fusion energy research and nuclear fission and radiation protection, and the “direct” research activities of the Joint Research Centre. Fusion Energy Research Objective Developing the knowledge base for, and realising ITER as the major step towards, the creation of prototype reactors for