the other for requesting Member States other than the Member State of nationality). This dual system will only make the task of transmitting information more complex and more confusing. Amendment 8 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 6 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment 1a. Where information is requested from the register of criminal records in the Member State of the person's nationality for any purpose outside the framework of criminal proceedings, the requesting Member State shall specify its reasons for requesting it. Justification This amendment is in line with the wording of Article 9(2) of the proposal and corresponds to the need to define the specific cases in which such information may be transmitted under the law of the convicting Member State or that of the person's nationality, according to the circumstances, in order to be used outside the framework of a criminal procedure. Amendment 9 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 6 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Council Amendment 2. When a person asks for information on their own criminal record, the central authority of the Member State in which the request is made may , in accordance with national law, submit a request to the central authority of another Member State for information and related data to be extracted from the criminal record, provided the interested party is or has been a resident or a national of the requesting or requested Member State. 2. When a person asks for information on his or her own criminal record, the central authority of the Member State in which the request is made shall , in accordance with national law, submit a request to the central authority of another Member State for information and related data to be extracted from the criminal record, provided the interested party is or has been a resident or a national of the requesting or requested Member State. Justification In cases in which the interested party is or has been a resident or a national of another Member State and proof exists to that effect, a request for information from that other State cannot depend upon the goodwill of the State in which the request has been submitted. Amendment 10 Proposal for a Council framework decision Article 9 – paragraph -1 (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment - 1. The processing of personal data for the purposes of this Framework Decision shall comply with at least the following basic principles: (a) data processing shall be permitted by law, and shall be necessary and proportionate to the purposes of collection and/or further processing; (b) data shall be collected only for specified and legitimate purposes and further processed in a way compatible with those purposes; (c) data shall be accurate and up-to-date; Justification Same justification as for Amendment 3. Amendment 11 Proposal for a decision Article 9 – paragraph -1 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment -1a. The processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, party or trade union