those companies for which new documents or particulars have been filed. With respect to the costs faced by small businesses because of such a publication, the Commission would first like to stress that Article 3 of the First Directive does not require publication in the national gazette of the full text of the documents filed. Member States are free to provide that only a reference to the documents filed must be published in the national gazette, with a view to limiting the publication costs faced by companies. Secondly, the Commission would like to refer to its Proposal for a Directive amending the First Company Law Directive, adopted on 3 June 2002 OJ C 227 E, 24.9.2002 . The Parliament adopted the Report of Mr Lehne in its plenary meeting on 12 March 2003. . With respect to the publication in a national gazette, Member States will first be able to keep this national gazette in electronic form: the Commission expects that the decision to use modern technologies for publication of the national gazette will lead to a decrease in the publication costs charged to companies. Finally, under the same Proposal, Member States will also be able to replace the publication in the national gazette with equally effective means (subject to the provision of a central and chronological access to company information, which is the main function performed by a national gazette). The Proposal requires Member States to make company documents and particulars accessible to third parties by electronic means , which does not necessarily mean that registers have to set up a website where all documents and particulars would be available on line as suggested by the Honourable Member: electronic means indeed cover a series of different technologies, including e.g. e-mail. The Commission nevertheless observes that the provision of information through a website is the option preferred by many Member States, and that the Proposal allows Member States to make decisions aiming at reducing the publication costs for companies in such a situation: if the register website offers a central and chronological access to company information, no further publication in the national gazette would indeed be required.