remains fully responsible for financial management. 3. The EC is of course aware of these allegations both on TV and in the printed media. It has in place all possible mechanisms to monitor the use of funds provided to the police as well as of alleged abuses and human rights violations, which the EC takes most seriously. These mechanisms, through a UNDP project in support of Rule of Law and Security, include the establishment of Police Advisory Committees, which regularly monitor actions by the police and investigate claims of violations, as well as providing support to the establishment of internal monitoring mechanisms, and of civilian and parliamentary oversight of the police. 4. The EC and other donors have indeed received a request from the PM (Police Management) to support additional police cadets, including those trained in Ethiopia (almost 1 000) and some re-activated police (2 500-3 000). The donor community, in addition to the EU Council of Ministers, gave positive reply to this request. The objective is to establish a real authority throughout the country to fight against human rights abuses, and to enable the TFIs to implement the peace agreement in particular by filling the security vacuum resulting from the withdrawal of foreign troops from Somalia through an adequately sized police. The responsibility for monitoring who actually receives the money is with UNDP which has been selected by donors, notably those mentioned at point 2, to deliver their support to the Somali Police Force. This is done through one component of the comprehensive reform of the security sector being implemented by UNDP via the Rule of Law and Security Programme. This programme currently reaches 1 982 police officers of the 2 775 originally targeted by the programme. This number is anyhow well below actual needs. The draft ‘Agreement on the cessation of armed confrontation’, that was initialled on 20 September 2008 by the TFG and the Alliance for Re-liberalisation of Somalia within the frame of the UN driven reconciliation process known as the Djibouti Agreement, the needs for police is estimated at 10 000 for Mogadishu alone. According to the draft Cessation of armed confrontation, UNPOS (UN Political Office for Somalia) is requested to cover the financial needs of these 10 000 new police. Donors are awaiting the UN formal request for support to these new police together with the payment system UNPOS intend to put in place to ensure that funding will be used for the intended purpose. 5. The international community, in which the Commission plays a leading role, seeks to encourage better governance in Somalia through diplomacy, though cooperation and through the instruments of the common foreign and security policy. The EC and other donors take these allegations seriously and have consistently supported the strengthening of UN human rights monitoring capacity. As indicated in the reply to the first question, the EC applies rigorous monitoring of EU expenditure in Somalia.