criticisms concerning the functioning of the process. (12) The speed of adoption of legislation and the quality of legislation are fundamental objectives of the Lamfalussy process. The success of the Lamfalussy process depends more on the political will of the institutional partners to set up an appropriate framework for the adoption of the legislation than on an acceleration of the setting up of the related technical delegated provisions. In addition, excessive emphasis on the speed of setting up the delegated provisions could create significant problems with regard to the quality of those provisions. (13) The extension of the Lamfalussy procedure is without prejudice to possible decisions regarding the organisation of supervision at a European level. ( 14 ) For those purposes, as regards the banking sector, the role of the Banking Advisory Committee (BAC) set up by Directive 2000/12/EC should be adapted. ( 15 ) To reflect that adapted role, the BAC should be replaced by "the European Banking Committee". ( 16 ) Since the measures necessary for the implementation of Directive 2000/12/EC are measures of general scope within the meaning of Article 2 of Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. , they should be adopted by use of the "comitology" procedure provided for in Article 5 of that Decision. (17) The implementing measures adopted should not modify the essential provisions of the Directives. (18) The European Parliament should be given a period of three months from the first transmission of draft implementing measures to allow it to examine them and to give its opinion. However, in urgent and duly justified cases this period may be shortened. If, within that period, a resolution is passed by the European Parliament, the Commission will re-examine the draft measures. (19) In exercising its implementing powers, the Commission should respect the following principles: – the need to ensure confidence in financial markets among investors by promoting high standards of transparency in those markets, – the need to provide investors with a wide range of competing investments and a level of disclosure and protection tailored to their circumstances, – the need to ensure that independent regulatory authorities enforce the rules consistently, especially as regards the fight against economic crime, – the need for high levels of transparency and consultation with all market participants and with the European Parliament and the Council, – the need to encourage innovation in financial markets if they are to be dynamic and efficient, – the need to ensure market integrity by close and reactive monitoring of financial innovation, – the importance of reducing the cost of, and increasing access to, capital, – the balance of costs and benefits to market participants on a long-term basis (including small and medium-sized businesses and small investors) in any implementing measures, – the need to foster the international competitiveness of EU financial markets without prejudice to a much-needed extension of international cooperation, – the need to achieve a level playing field for all market participants