Joint answer given by Mr Kyprianou on behalf of the Commission Written questions : P-2449/05 , E-2460/05 (21 September 2005) Firstly, it must be made clear that the Commission is not considering a ban on the voluntary use of care labelling by market operators. Care labelling provides consumers with useful information, which they welcome, as shown by the Swedish opinion poll. The current state of the law regarding labelling of textiles can be summarised, as follows. Directive 96/74/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 on textile names OJ L 32, 3.2.1997. governs the issue of textiles labelling within the European Union (EU). Under this directive, textile products have to be labelled or marked. The information to be provided relates to the fibre content of the textile and applies only to those fibres that are listed in Annex I of this directive. Care instructions are not covered by this directive. Nevertheless, textile and clothing manufacturers and retailers usually label their textile products with care instructions on a voluntary basis. To assist manufacturers and retailers, the ISO (International Standardisation Organisation) has in 2005 approved an international standard, which will be soon implemented in the European standards. As many consumers check care labelling before buying clothes, as shown in the Swedish opinion poll, there is a strong incentive for producers and importers to provide this information. It is the view of the Commission that a mandatory national provision requiring a care label to be affixed on a textile product could constitute a barrier to trade as prohibited under Article 28 of the EC Treaty and would require to be justified as both necessary and proportionate by that Member State on the grounds of consumer information. Against this background, introducing Community rules on care labelling could constitute an alternative solution. However, for the time being, the main stakeholders are not ready to agree on legislation on care labelling. In this sense, the Commission will look at the best available solutions. The recently adopted Unfair Commercial Practices Directive Directive 2005/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and amending Council Directive 84/450/EEC, Directives 97/7/EC, 98/27/EC and 2002/65/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (‘Unfair Commercial Practices Directive’) OJ L 149, 11.6.2005. , which aims at tackling misleading and aggressive commercial practices, may also be relevant. The directive contains provisions relating to the omission of material information which the average consumer needs. In specific circumstances, such an omission will amount to a misleading practice. It may, therefore, be the case that, in a given context, omitting to provide washing instructions on a piece of clothing is considered a misleading practice.