(President-in-Office of the Council) . The following spoke: László Tőkés , on behalf of the PPE Group, Monika Flašíková Beňová , on behalf of the S&D Group , who also replied to a blue-card question by Franz Obermayr , Stanimir Ilchev , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Hélène Flautre , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Timothy Kirkhope , on behalf of the ECR Group, Cornelia Ernst , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, and Mario Borghezio , on behalf of the EFD Group . The debate closed. 11 Estimates of revenue and expenditure for 2012 - Section I - Parliament (debate) Report on the estimates of revenue and expenditure of Parliament for the financial year 2012 - Section I - Parliament [ 2011/2018(BUD) ] - Committee on Budgets. Rapporteur: José Manuel Fernandes ( A7-0087/2011 ) José Manuel Fernandes introduced the report. The following spoke: Monika Hohlmeier , on behalf of the PPE Group, Derek Vaughan , on behalf of the S&D Group, Alexander Alvaro , on behalf of the ALDE Group, Helga Trüpel , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Lajos Bokros , on behalf of the ECR Group, Miguel Portas , on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, Marta Andreasen , on behalf of the EFD Group, Lucas Hartong , Non-attached Member, Barbara Matera , Göran Färm , who also replied to blue card questions from Lucas Hartong and Miguel Portas , Carl Haglund , Peter van Dalen , João Ferreira , Claudio Morganti , Angelika Werthmann and Paul Rübig . IN THE CHAIR: Rodi KRATSA-TSAGAROPOULOU Vice-President The following spoke: Jens Geier , Anne E. Jensen , Seán Kelly , Gerben-Jan Gerbrandy , Salvador Garriga Polledo and Riikka Manner . The following spoke under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure: Janusz Władysław Zemke , Jaroslav Paška , Monika Flašíková Beňová , Giovanni La Via , Vladimír Maňka and Zigmantas Balčytis . The following spoke: José Manuel Fernandes and Miguel Portas , the latter to put a question to José Manuel Fernandes , who answered it. The debate closed. Vote: minutes of 6.4.2011, item 8.13 . 12 Protection of Communities' financial interests – fight against fraud (debate) Report on the protection of the Communities' financial interests – Fight against fraud – Annual report 2009 [ 2010/2247(INI) ] - Committee on Budgetary Control. Rapporteur: Cătălin Sorin Ivan ( A7-0050/2011 ) Cătălin Sorin Ivan introduced the report. The following spoke: Algirdas Šemeta (Member of the Commission) . The following spoke: Monica Luisa Macovei , on behalf of the PPE Group, Jens Geier , on behalf of the S&D Group, Bart Staes , on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, Andrea Češková , on behalf of the ECR Group, Marta Andreasen , on behalf of the EFD Group, Csanád Szegedi , Non-attached Member, Ingeborg Gräßle , Monika Flašíková Beňová , Janusz Wojciechowski , Lucas Hartong , who also replied to a blue-card question from Bart Staes , Erminia Mazzoni , Edit Herczog , Mairead McGuinness , Zigmantas Balčytis , Iliana Ivanova , Inés Ayala Sender , Andrea Cozzolino , Georgios Stavrakakis and Ivailo Kalfin . The following spoke