referred to in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 shall be decided upon by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2). Article 12 Effects on competition When projects are considered, their effects on competition and on security of supply shall be taken into account. Private financing or financing by the economic operators concerned shall be the main source of financing and shall be encouraged. Any competitive distortion between market operators shall be avoided, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty. Article 13 Restrictions 1. This Decision shall be without prejudice to financial commitments entered into by a Member State or by the Community. 2. This Decision shall be without prejudice to the results of the environmental impact assessment of projects , plans or programmes which define the future authorisation framework for such projects. The results of the environmental impact assessments, where such an assessment is requested in accordance with relevant Community legislation, shall be taken into consideration before a decision on the carrying out of the projects is actually taken in accordance with the relevant Community legislation. Article 14 Committee procedure 1. The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee. 2. Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3. The Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure. Article 15 Report Every two years the Commission shall draw up a report on the implementation of this Decision, which it shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. In that report, attention shall be given to the implementation and progress made in the carrying out of priority projects which concern cross-border connections as mentioned in Annex II, points 2, 4 and 7, as well as the detailed arrangements for their financing, especially as regards the contribution from Community funds . Article 16 Repeal Decision 96/391/EC and Decision No 1229/2003/EC are hereby repealed. Article 17 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 18 Addressees This Decision is addressed to the Member States. Done at , For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX I TRANS-EUROPEAN ENERGY NETWORKS Priority project axes, including sites of projects of European interest , as defined in Articles 7 and 8 . The priority projects, including projects of European interest, to be carried out on each priority axis, are listed below. ELECTRICITY NETWORKS EL.1. France – Belgium – Netherlands – Germany: electricity network reinforcement in order to resolve congestion in electricity flow through the Benelux States. Including the following projects of European interest: Avelin (FR) – Avelgem (BE) line Moulaine (FR) – Aubange (BE) line EL.2. Borders of Italy with France, Austria, Slovenia and Switzerland: increasing electricity interconnection capacities. Including the following projects of