(diocese of Baoding, Hebei); Fr Li Jianbo (diocese of Baoding, Hebei); and Fr Liu Deli; as well as Pastor Zhang Rongliang (53), one of the founders of the China for Christ Church, a group comprising more than 10 million Christians, who was arrested on 1 December 2004, and who is still imprisoned without any legal process. They should demand the unconditional release of all Chinese Catholics and other Christians incarcerated on account of their religious convictions and that the authorities cease immediately all kinds of violence towards them. MEPs urge the Chinese Government to implement Article 36 of the Constitution of the People’s Republic of China and to ratify and implement the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. They note that the Chinese Government has finally accepted the request made by the Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief and the Special Rapporteur on Torture to visit China before the end of the year. Parliament invites the Chinese Government to set an early date for this visit and calls on the Chinese authorities to allow access for the UN Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief to the Panchen Lama designated by the Dalai Lama. Parliament welcomes the fact of having a EU-China human rights structured dialogue, but expresses disappointment at the lack of substantial results as regards this dialogue. It invites the Council and the Commission to raise these issues of concern during the forthcoming EU-China human rights session, as part of a thorough assessment of its effectiveness. Press enquiries: Ralph Pine (Strasbourg) tel.(33-3) 881 74751 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42941 (32) 0498.983.587 e-mail : rpine@europarl.eu.int Syria told: free your political prisoners Joint motion for a resolution on political prisoners in Syria Doc. B6-0456/2005 , B6-0459/2005 , B6-0463/2005 , B6-0468/2005 , B6-0474/2005 , B6-0480/2005 Debate/Vote: 08.09.2005 In a resolution adopted by 82 votes in favour to 1 against with 3 abstentions on political prisoners in Syria, the European Parliament urges the Syrian authorities to release parliamentarians Riad Seif and Mamun al-Humsi immediately and calls on the Syrian authorities to drop immediately all charges against civil activists Hazan Zeino, Yassin al-Hamwi and Muhammad Ali al-Abdullah, who are facing trial before military courts. MEPs call on the Syrian authorities: to ensure that the detainees are well treated and not subjected to torture or other ill treatment; to ratify the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment; to ensure that detained or imprisoned persons are given prompt, regular and unrestricted access to their lawyers, doctors and families. Parliament points out that respect for human rights constitutes a vital component in any future EU-Syria Association Agreement. It calls on the Commission and the Council and the individual Member States to make clear to the Syrian authorities that the agreement which is currently under negotiation incorporates human rights clauses which are a fundamental element of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership, and expects concrete improvements in this field on the part of the Syrian authorities. MEPs also call for the setting up of a