P5_TA(2002)0467 Situation in Côte d'Ivoire B5-0520 , 0521 , 0522 , 0523 , 0524 and 0525/2002 European Parliament resolution on the situation in Côte d'Ivoire The European Parliament , – having regard to its previous resolutions on Côte d'Ivoire, – having regard to the declaration by the UN Security Council and its Secretary-General, – having regard to the statement by the African Union, – having regard to the declaration by the Presidency, on behalf of the European Union, – having regard to the declaration by the President of the European Parliament, – having regard to the declaration by the Co-President of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, A. whereas the attempted coup d'état under way in the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire since 19 September 2002 is seriously undermining the constitutional legality and unity of the country, B. deploring the lives lost, including those of civilians, C. concerned about the risks of communal confrontation and the climate of social and political instability in the country, D. mindful of the risks of destabilisation that this crisis poses to political, economic and humanitarian activities across the entire subregion, E. whereas ethnic, religious and political diversity is an asset when set in a climate of equality and fraternity, F. whereas at their Extraordinary Summit in Accra the heads of state and government of ECOWAS decided to set up a high-level contact group in an attempt to mediate between the government and the rebels, 1. Strongly condemns the attempted coup d'état and deplores the persistence of fighting and the loss of human life in Côte d'Ivoire; 2. Strongly regrets that ECOWAS's mediation attempt has so far failed; 3. Calls for an immediate cease-fire and reiterates its commitment to a political solution to the crisis that encompasses all the opposing parties, pursues the course of national reconciliation embarked upon in October 2001 and respects democratic institutions and the unity of the national territory of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire; 4. Calls on the African Union and ECOWAS to intervene again to help resolve this crisis; 5. Reiterates its support for the democratically elected President, Mr Laurent Gbagbo, and the government of national unity of the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire as the guarantor of democratic legitimacy and the unity of the country; 6. Calls on President Gbagbo to urge his government and the Ivorian military to guarantee the protection of civilians, whatever their ethnic origin, and to step up their moves towards the integration and reconciliation of all the components of Ivorian society; 7. Calls on the EU to intensify its cooperation with Côte d'Ivoire and to focus its development policies on the northern part of the country in particular; 8. Calls for a radical improvement in conflict prevention mechanisms, given their obvious shortcomings; 9. Calls for the establishment of an international committee of inquiry to shed light on violations of human rights by both sides; 10. Instructs its Development and Cooperation Committee to monitor closely developments in Côte d'Ivoire and hopes that a delegation from the European Parliament will be sent to Côte d'Ivoire without delay to support the