committee shall destroy all statements of support received for a given citizens' initiative and any copies thereof at the latest one month after publication of the European Commission's communication in accordance with Article 11(2) . Justification Destroying of all statement of support forms should take place after the publication of the European Commission's communication. The organising committee should have a chance to inform all signatories about the European Commission's communication on a given citizens' initiative. It is extremely important, for the whole process, that citizens are informed about the follow-up of the proposal they support. Amendment 31 Proposal for a regulation Article 19 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. For the purpose of the implementation of Article 6(5), the Commission shall be assisted by a committee. 1. For the purpose of the implementation of Article 6(5), the Commission shall be assisted by an independent committee possessing appropriate technical knowledge . Amendment 32 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Five years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. Two years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. Justification The review should be done earlier. Two years seems enough in order to assess the first initiatives. Amendment 33 Proposal for a regulation Annex II – point 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. The full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organiser or, in the case of a legal entity or organisation, its legal representative ; 5. The full name, postal address and e-mail address of each member of the organising committee ; Amendment 34 Proposal for a regulation Annex III – box 2 – point 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4a. Funding sources*: Justification For the sake of transparency, the funding sources of each citizens´ initiative should be indicated in the statement of support form. It should be clear to all signatories who is financing the respective initiative. Amendment 35 Proposal for a regulation Annex III – box 3 – point 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. Date and place of birth*: 4. Date of birth*: Date of birth: Place and country: Justification Information on place of birth is not needed. Rapporteur proposes to delete it in order to simplify the form. Amendment 36 Proposal for a regulation Annex III – box 3 – point 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6. Personal identification number *: deleted Type of identification number/identity document*: National identity card: Passport: Social security: Member State , which issued the identification number/identity document*: Amendment 37 Proposal for a regulation Annex V Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Annex deleted Amendment 38 Proposal for a regulation Annex VIII – point 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 6. Full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organiser or, in