Answer given by Mr De Gucht on behalf of the Commission (17 September 2009) The Commission is committed to promoting gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation. It is clear that with regard to the mid‑term review of the progress towards the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the preparations for Beijing+15 and the 10th anniversary of UN Security Council Resolution 1325, next year will be crucial for reaching the MDGs and in particular MDG3. One measure to be taken by the Commission and the EU Member States is the development of an EU Action Plan on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment in External Relations (GAP), as a follow-up to the 2007 Communication on Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment in Development Cooperation and the subsequent Council Conclusions to which the Honourable Member refers. The Commission started working in 2008 on an Issues Paper as a first step towards the GAP. This Issues Paper was discussed with external stakeholders, including civil society, at the Member States' Experts meeting of 19 June 2008. In fact, written comments from the CONCORD European NGO Confederation for Relief and Development. gender task force, WAGGGS World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts. as well as from various international organisations (IPPF International Planned Parenthood Federation. , UNIFEM United Nations Development Fund for Women. ) were received and were incorporated in a revised text of the Issues Paper. However, it was felt that the paper needed further work. Accordingly, the Commission established a working group with interested Member States (Denmark, United Kingdom, Spain, France, The Netherlands and Finland). As of August 2009, the Commission has the support of the Spanish Presidency to bring the GAP to the Council in the first half of 2010. The Commission will finalise a new draft text in autumn 2009, taking into account both Member States' inputs and the civil society organisations comments received in 2008. Although the question is correct in pointing out that the Commission (together with the Member States) still needs to clarify the status of the GAP, this will also be done in due time. Funding for activities identified in the GAP will come from existing country or regional allocations or from the relevant Commission budget lines. The Commission will ensure the effective implementation of the GAP through the establishment of a monitoring system, which will be part of the GAP.