a proposal to reject the common position shall be voted upon before voting on any amendments (see Rule 61(1)); (c) where several amendments to the common position have been tabled they shall be put to the vote in the order set out in Rule 155; (d) where Parliament has proceeded to a vote to amend the common position, a further vote on the text as a whole may only be taken in accordance with Rule 61(2). 3. The procedure set out in Rule 65 shall apply to third readings. 4. In voting on legislative texts and on non-legislative motions for resolutions, votes relating to substantive parts shall be taken first, followed by votes relating to citations and recitals. Amendments shall fall if they contradict a prior vote. 5. The only Member permitted to speak during the vote shall be the rapporteur, who shall have the opportunity of expressing briefly his committee's views on the amendments put to the vote. Rule 153 Tied votes 1. In the event of a tied vote under Rule 152(1)(b) or (d), the text as a whole shall be referred back to committee. This shall also apply to votes under Rules 3 and 7 and to final votes under Rules 177 and 188, on the understanding that, for these two Rules, the matter is referred back to the Conference of Presidents. 2. In the event of a tied vote on the agenda as a whole (Rule 132) or the minutes as a whole (Rule 172), or on a text put to a split vote under Rule 157, the text shall be deemed adopted. 3. In all other cases where there is a tied vote, without prejudice to those Rules which require qualified majorities, the text or proposal shall be deemed rejected. Rule 154 Principles governing voting 1. Voting on a report shall take place on the basis of a recommendation from the committee responsible. The committee may delegate this task to its chairman and rapporteur. 2. The committee may recommend that all or several amendments be put to the vote collectively, that they be accepted or rejected or declared void. It may also propose compromise amendments. 3. Where the committee recommends that amendments be put to the vote collectively, the collective vote on these amendments shall be taken first. 4. Where the committee proposes a compromise amendment, it shall be given priority in voting. 5. Amendments for which a roll-call vote has been requested shall be put to the vote individually. 6. A split vote shall not be admissible in the case of a collective vote or a vote on a compromise amendment. Rule 155 Order of voting on amendments 1. Amendments shall have priority over the text to which they relate and shall be put to the vote before that text. 2. If two or more mutually exclusive amendments have been tabled to the same part of a text, the amendment that departs furthest from the original text shall have priority and shall be put to the vote first. If it is adopted the other amendments shall