to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: 1. welcomes the White Book on governance and the principles of good governance; underlines however that the principles of a parliamentary democracy and the co-decision procedure in the European legislation should be maintained; 2. calls for the extension of co-decision procedure in the field of Economic and Monetary Union especially in relation to competition and economic policies; 3. Advocates making a clear distinction between general legislation and implementing measures coming within the powers of the executive authority; calls, with this in mind, for an in-depth study to be drawn up to see whether the detailed rules for the application of legislative provisions could be laid down by the Commission or by means of self-management procedures, more specifically in areas where the legislation is of a technical nature, agriculture and financial services. 4. welcomes the Commissions support for the European Parliaments call for secondary legislation and the modification of article 202 of the Treaty but insists that any change in secondary legislation should guarantee the institutional balance between the institutions; 5. Believes that it is necessary, in particular in the light of the results of the negotiations on the 'Lamfalussy' approach, to provide safeguard mechanisms, and more particularly a recall procedure enabling it to reappropriate its legislative power where it disagrees with the detailed rules for the implementation of the legislation, with the aim of guaranteeing the democratic legitimacy of the legislative process; 6. calls for a strengthened role of the European Parliament in introducing the confirmation procedures for the nomination of chairs of expert committees dealing with secondary legislation ; 7. Recalls the particular characteristics of the EMU's operational rules, and more particularly the requirements of equilibrium between the institutions and the independence of the European Central Bank, which are still essential to ensure the smooth functioning of that system. 6 November 2001 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON LEGAL AFFAIRS AND THE INTERNAL MARKET for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Commission White Paper on European governance ( COM(2001) 428 – C5-0454/2001 – 2001/2181(COS)) Draftsman: Manuel Medina Ortega PROCEDURE The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market appointed Manuel Medina Ortega draftsman at its meeting of 10 July 2001. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 19 September, 11 October and 6 November 2001. At the last meeting it adopted the following conclusions by 21 votes to 0, with 2 abstentions. The following were present for the vote: Ana Palacio Vallelersundi, chairman; Willi Rothley and Ward Beysen, vice-chairmen; Manuel Medina Ortega, draftsman; Pedro Aparicio Sánchez (for Enrico Boselli pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Paolo Bartolozzi, Luis Berenguer Fuster, Raina A. Mercedes Echerer, Janelly Fourtou, Gerhard Hager, Malcolm Harbour, Heidi Anneli Hautala, Kurt Lechner, Klaus-Heiner Lehne, Neil MacCormick, Toine Manders, Luís Marinho, Arlene McCarthy, José María Mendiluce Pereiro (for Carlos Candal pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Bill Miller, Angelika Niebler, Diana Wallis, Joachim Wuermeling and Stefano Zappalà. SHORT JUSTIFICATION 1. The Commission’s White Paper on European Governance deals with issues within the area of competence of the Committee on Legal