the immediate and longer-term flow of assistance to the country to stop the terrible suffering of the people of Zimbabwe; 4. Firmly condemns continuing violence of the government against members and supporters of the MDC; is outraged by the spate of recent abductions of human rights defenders and calls for the immediate release of Jestina Mukoko, the director of the Zimbabwe Peace Project (ZPP); Zacharia Nkomo, brother of leading human rights lawyer Harrison Nkomo; Broderick Takawira, provincial coordinator of the Zimbabwe Peace Project; Pascal Gonzo, a driver at the Zimbabwe Peace Project and a number of members of the MDC and civil society activists; and demands the perpetrators of these abductions are held to account; 5. Supports the decision of the Council to update the list of persons subject to EU individual restrictive measures, in particular by adding to the list names of persons actively engaged in violence or human rights infringements, 6. Calls on the UN Security Council to consider imposing targeted sanctions (travel bans and asset freezes) against Mr. Mugabe and persons actively engaged in violence or human rights infringements, 7. Urgently calls for increased engagement of African countries and regional institutions such as SADC and, in particular, the AU as a guarantor of the 15 September agreement, as well as eminent African personalities, in negotiating a fair, just solution to the Zimbabwe situation based on the credible elections held in March, and in monitoring any political-level agreement in a balanced way; 8. Calls on the Council to remain vigilant in relation to the possible consequences for the region of ZANU-PF´s deliberate neglect and misgovernance that is destabilising placeplaceZimbabwe, 9. Expresses deep concern about the situation of Zimbabwean refugees in the region and deplores the acts of violence against Zimbabwean refugees in bordering countries; calls on the Commission to support the neighbouring countries with financial and material assistance programmes for the refugees; 10. Strongly appeals to all stakeholders and the international community to be prepared to support the economic and social recovery of Zimbabwe once a government is formed, which genuinely reflects at all levels the will of the Zimbabwean people, and once there are tangible signs of a return to respect for democracy, human rights and rule of law; 11. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the placeMemberplace States, the UN Security Council, the African Union, the government and parliament of placeplaceZimbabwe and the governments and parliaments of the SADC.