Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (20 July 2010) The Honourable Member's question relates to specific problems consumers face when holiday services are not performed according to the contract. Concerning the issues affecting the flight only, under EU Regulation [EC] 261/2004 Regulation (EC) 261/2004 of the Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 295/91, OJ L 46, 17.2.2004. on air passenger rights, Member States must set up enforcement bodies (National Enforcement Bodies) whose main tasks are to deal with complaints from passengers and to ensure that air passenger rights are properly respected. According to the regulation, in the event of flight cancellation or delay of at least two hours, assistance must always be offered to stranded passengers -who have chosen to be rerouted in case of cancellation or are still waiting for their flight to take off- by the operating air carrier even if the cancellation or delay was caused by extraordinary circumstances . Article 14 of the regulation also stipulates that airlines are obliged to inform passengers of their rights to compensation and assistance in writing. If the consumer has purchased a package holiday, Article 4(1)b of the Package Travel Directive Directive 90/314/EEC on package travel, package holidays and package tours, OJ L 158, 23.6.1990. (the directive) requires that the consumer must be provided with the telephone number of the local representative of the organiser or the retailer in good time before the start of the journey. If such a representative does not exist, the consumer must be given an emergency telephone number that will enable him to contact the organiser or retailer. In cases of complaints from the consumer, the organiser/retailer or their representative must make prompt efforts to find appropriate solutions Article 5(4). . Furthermore, Article 5 of the directive ensures that the retailer/organiser of a package holiday is liable to the consumer for the proper performance of the contract. If the consumer suffers damages caused by improper performance, e.g. sub-standard services or transport problems, he may claim damages from the organiser/retailer, unless the failure to perform is caused by the consumer himself, a third party unconnected with the services contracted for or a force majeure situation. Even in such cases, the organiser/retailer is required to provide prompt assistance to a consumer in difficulty. The compensation afforded to the consumer may cover all costs he incurred as a result of the problem, including telephone charges. The above shows that consumers going on holiday normally already benefit from protection under the existing EU legislation against the problems highlighted by the Honourable Member. Recent public consultations on the application of the directive (in 2007 and 2010) have not revealed that difficulties in contacting the organiser or retailer would constitute a major consumer problem. The Commission is, however, aware that during the unprecedented situation which resulted from the closure of airspace in Europe caused by the Icelandic volcano