Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (23 October 2008) Landfills in operation are governed by Directive 1999/31/EC on the landfill of waste OJ L 182, 16.7.1999. which specifies requirements for the design, operation, closure and after-care of landfills, including leachate management, gas control and criteria and procedures for waste acceptance. Waste accepted in landfills in accordance with the relevant Council decision OJ L 11, 16.1.2003. has to be subject to treatment beforehand in order to reduce its volume or hazardous nature, facilitate its handling or enhance recovery. Annex I to the Landfill Directive specifies that the location of a landfill must take into account the existence of urban sites, groundwater, costal water and nature protection zones as well as geological and hydro-geological conditions in the area. Furthermore, landfills must be designed in such a way that the necessary conditions for preventing pollution of the soil, groundwater and surface water are met, for example, compulsory construction of a geological barrier as well as a bottom liner. It is the responsibility of the Member States to implement the abovementioned requirements in any particular case and to ensure that the environment or human health is not endangered by the management of waste. The abovementioned requirements are applicable to landfills in operation. However, according to the allegations presented by the Honourable Member, in Ramacca there are a number of disused landfills which may be posing a threat to the environment and human health. Where the Landfill Directive is not applicable, the treatment and disposal of waste is regulated at Community level by Directive 2006/12/EC on waste OJ L 114, 27.4.2006. . Under this directive Member States are required to ensure that waste, including hazardous waste, is disposed of, or recovered, without endangering human health and without harming the environment. On the basis of the information provided by the Honourable Member, the Commission cannot establish the link between the alarming growth in the incidence of cancer among the inhabitants of Ramacca and the possible mismanagement of disused landfills in the area. However, the Commission will enquire with the relevant competent authorities into the current situation concerning the management of landfills in Ramacca, both in operation and decommissioned.