and independent impact assessments, based on wide-ranging consultation of stakeholders and that "soft law" all too often constitutes an ambiguous and ineffective instrument which is liable to have a detrimental effect on Community legislation. "Better Regulation in the EU" The first report strongly supports the process of Better Regulation with a view to strengthening the effectiveness, efficiency, coherence, accountability and transparency of EU law. Plain and simple language The House insists that, when presenting a legislative proposal, the Commission must avoid unclear and redundant expressions and preferably use plain and comprehensible language, whilst retaining terminological precision and legal certainty. The Parliament considers, in particular, that the practice of using incomprehensible acronyms and the over-abundance of needless recitals must be abandoned. The report encourages all levels of government to use, whenever possible, clear language that is easily understandable by citizens. "Gold plating" The report deplores Member States' practice of 'gold plating', and calls upon the Commission to investigate what further measures might be taken to prevent it, including the introduction of a right of direct action for citizens. The report calls for 'follow-up impact assessments' analysing how decisions are in fact implemented in Member States and at local level. MEPs support the increased use, where appropriate, of regulations. Impact assessments The report accepts that the Council, like Parliament, must consider the impact of its major amendments upon the Commission's impact assessment. The House stresses the need for cost-benefit analyses that better reflect the complex regulatory cost structures when directives are implemented by way of national legislation and change the regulatory framework within which companies and individuals operate. The report strongly advocates transparency and independent scrutiny of the carrying-out of impact assessments. The House agrees with the Commission that better lawmaking cannot be achieved without an overall picture of the economic, social, environmental, health and international impact of each legislative proposal. The report fully supports, therefore, the setting-up within the Commission of an Impact Assessment Board under the authority of the Commission's President in order to monitor the application of these principles in the drafting of impact assessments by the responsible staff of the Commission. The House stresses, nevertheless, that, in order to guarantee a minimum level of independent scrutiny in the drafting of impact assessments, an independent panel of experts should be set up to monitor, by means of spot checks, the quality of opinions delivered by the Impact Assessment Board, and that representatives of interested parties should also be allowed to assist in conducting them. Subsidiarity and proportionality - independent impact assessments needed In a second own-initiative report on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, the House considers that bad regulatory quality in the Member States and at Community level weakens the rule of law and alienates citizens from their institutions. The House stresses the importance of adequate and independent impact assessments, based on wide-ranging consultation of stakeholders. Do nothing? The House calls on the Commission to provide a sufficient number of scenarios and policy options (including ‘do-nothing’ options if necessary) as a basis for cost-effective and sustainable solutions.