obtain an authorisation to operate. Regulation 5 inserts sub section (1A) into section 5 of the Act, which prevents the Secretary of State from issuing an authorisation when it appears to him that the applicant does not or will not fulfil the criteria of “sound and prudent management”. The Regulation also inserts an entire schedule to the Act which develops the meaning of “sound and prudent management”. The schedule specifies that for a company to be regarded as conducting its business in a sound and prudent manner it has to maintain, amongst other things, “adequate accounting and other records of its business” and “adequate systems of controls of its business and records”. It then goes on to specify the meaning of these two standards. Paragraph 6A of Schedule 6 to the Insurance Companies (Accounts and Statements) Regulations 1983, as amended, stipulates that the certificate by Directors required by Regulation 26(a) must also state, by way of a list, any published guidance with which the systems of control established and maintained by the company in respect of its business comply. Link to the ELAS case There are three elements of this article linked to the ELAS case. First, the obligation of regulators to supervise the company as a whole, i.e., always to take account of its 'entire business'; secondly, the requirement to have 'sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms'; thirdly, the obligation of the host authorities to inform the home authorities when problems arise. 1. Supervision of the 'entire business' and PRE It is safe to assume that, when the article states in such simple, clear and unambiguous terms that financial supervision must cover the “assurance undertaking's entire business” , that is precisely what the legislator intended and nothing else. ‘Entire business’ means, it would seem, in all languages and circumstances, the totality of a company’s business, without any exceptions or loopholes. Having established this, it is pertinent to analyze the numerous pieces of evidence received which claim that the UK authorities (the home Member State) did not correctly supervise the company because they did not sufficiently take into account or simply disregarded the idea of the ‘entire business’. Evidence refuting these claims also needs to be considered. First of all, Lord Penrose (WE 16) "...the forms and statements required in the annual reporting process were not designed at any time to elicit information relevant to regulatory intervention, except in respect of solvency. In particular, the forms and statements at no time sought to elicit information necessary to enable regulators to form a view on whether the reasonable expectations of policyholders and potential policyholders would be likely to be met or frustrated." (par. 210, chapter 19, WE 16) claims that the regulator focused exclusively on solvency margins and took no account of accrued terminal bonuses, which are those non-contractual benefits distributed by the company at its discretion. These bonuses might be considered, according to one interpretation, as an integral part of the company's ‘entire business’ (this is directly linked to the arguments relating to Article 18 on Technical Provisions).