shall be broken down between the political groups and the Non-attached Members. 4. At the end of the debate there shall be an immediate vote. Rule 163 shall not apply. Votes taken pursuant to this Rule may be organised on a collective basis under the responsibility of the President and the Conference of Presidents. 5. If two or more motions for resolutions are tabled on the same subject, the procedure set out in Rule 103(4) shall apply. 6. The President and political group chairmen may decide that a motion for a resolution shall be put to the vote without debate. Such a decision shall require the unanimous assent of all the political group chairmen. The provisions of Rules 167, 168 and 170 shall not apply to motions for resolutions included on the agenda for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Motions for resolutions shall be tabled for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law only after the list of subjects has been adopted. Motions for resolutions that cannot be dealt with in the time allocated to the debate shall lapse. The same shall apply to motions for resolutions in respect of which it is established, following a request under Rule 149(3), that a quorum is not present. Obviously Members shall be entitled to retable such motions either for consideration in committee pursuant to Rule 113 or for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law at the next part-session. A subject cannot be included on the agenda for a debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law if it is already on the agenda for that part-session. There are no provisions in the Rules to allow a joint debate on a motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with paragraph 2, second subparagraph, and a committee report on the same subject. When a request is made pursuant to Rule 149(3) that it be established whether a quorum is present, this request shall be valid only for the motion for a resolution which is to be put to the vote and not for those which follow. Rule 116 Written declarations 1. Up to five Members may submit a written declaration of not more than 200 words on a matter falling within the sphere of activities of the European Union. Written declarations shall be printed in the official languages and distributed. They shall be included with the names of the signatories in a register. This register shall be public and shall be maintained outside the entrance to the Chamber during part-sessions and between part-sessions in an appropriate location to be determined by the College of Quaestors. 2. Any Member may add his signature to a declaration included in the register. 3. Where a declaration is signed by the majority of Parliament's component Members, the President shall notify Parliament accordingly and publish the names of the signatories in the minutes. 4. Such a declaration shall,