Answer given by Ms Hübner on behalf of the Commission (31 March 2009) The case mentioned by the Honourable Member was discovered by the national finance police, the Guardia di Finanza, and is now under judicial examination by the Italian judicial authorities. As it is normal in such circumstances the Commission services have asked the Italian authorities and specifically the Managing Authority concerned to report, in accordance with its regulatory reporting obligations, on the measures taken in order to recover any financial support unduly granted. In this particular case, the Italian authorities have already informed the Commission that the European Union funding of the activities to which the Honourable Member refers (i.e. that linked to the person referred in the question) has already been withdrawn. This was done upon receipt of the initial findings of the enquiry performed by Guardia di Finanza in the matter. As to the general measures in force by the Commission in order to meet a sound financial management, Managing Authorities in Member States are responsible for the selection and implementation of operations co-financed by the Structural Funds. They are notably responsible for preliminary checks according to Article 4 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 438/2001 Commission Regulation (EC) No 438/2001 of 2 March 2001 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999 as regards the management and control systems for assistance granted under the Structural Funds, OJ L 63, 3.3.2001. . Furthermore Article 10 of the same regulation provides a number of obligations at level of the national audit services before the closure of the programme. Moreover, should evidence of fraud or irregularity arise during such checks, even after the closure of a programme, the Member State is obliged to recover the irregular payment from the beneficiary in question. The Commission is also entitled to ask the Member State to recover any undue grants in the event that it is not satisfied with the action taken by the Member State.