attached to the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, the Commission committed itself ‘to take due account of the position of the European Parliament when implementing the strategies’, F. whereas the principles of ownership, participation and good governance call for a multi-stakeholder approach in which the various development partners, i.e. local authorities or non-state actors, act in a complementary and coherent manner; and whereas it is important, however, to make a clear distinction between the specific role of local authorities and that of non-state actors, in terms of their spheres of competence, legitimacy and democratic control, experience in the management of local affairs and involvement in the implementation of public policies, G. whereas EU funding for international cooperation with Africa comes from four geographic instruments: the EDF for African ACP countries, the TDCA for South Africa, the ENPI for five North African states, and the DCI for the thematic programmes, H. whereas the Commission undertook to endeavour to ensure that 20% of its allocated assistance under country programmes covered by the DCI would be dedicated, by 2009, to basic and secondary education and basic health, through project, programme or budget support linked to these sectors, taking an average across all geographic areas, I. whereas the EU has committed itself to the collective target of spending 0.7% of its gross national income (GNI) on ODA by 2015, J. whereas the Earth Summit 2012 aims to secure renewed political commitment to sustainable development, to assess progress towards internationally agreed goals on sustainable development and to address new and emerging challenges , K. whereas Article 290 of the TFEU states that a legislative act may delegate to the Commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act, Lessons learned 1. Welcomes the Commission’s willingness to honour its commitment to enter into a regular dialogue with Parliament on the implementation of the DCI; acknowledges the efforts made to keep Parliament’s DCI working groups informed about how its comments on strategy papers have been taken into account in drawing up AAPs; 2. Notes that, in particular during the mid-term review, the dialogue between the Commission and Parliament as part of the democratic scrutiny exercise has helped to avoid the adoption of strategy papers containing ultra vires provisions and to bring strategy papers into line with the requirements of the DCI regulation and in particular the ODA eligibility principles; 3. Finds it regrettable that several of Parliament’s concerns raised during the democratic scrutiny process, in particular regarding a lack of focus on poverty and the MDGs, have not been sufficiently taken into account by the Commission; 4. Finds it regrettable that, while the European Consensus on Development (2005) and the DCI emphasise the importance of ownership, the involvement of national parliaments in drawing up Country Strategy Papers has, in practice, been poor; finds it regrettable that the Commission has not adequately implemented the provisions of Articles 19, 20 and 33 of Regulation (EC) No 1905/2006 on consultation with non-state actors and local authorities;