Answer given by High Representative/Vice-President Ashton on behalf of the Commission (25 May 2011) In his preliminary report to the United Nations (UN) Security Council, the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court underlined that, according to different sources, a number of cases of rape had been committed. Such acts are unacceptable and outrageous. The EU is closely monitoring the situation on the ground and has repeatedly condemned the violence and human rights violations perpetrated by the Libyan regime against civilians (statements of 17 March, 19 March, 14 April, 29 April, 5 May 2011). The High Representative will continue to press vigorously for full respect for human rights and humanitarian law by the regime. She regularly highlights these issues in discussions with partners. Through her spokesperson she has welcomed the work of the International Criminal Court in Libya as well as the Commission of Inquiry into Libya established by the UN Human Rights Council. These messages have also been conveyed by the European Union in its various Council conclusions of 11, 21 and 24 March and 12 April 2011. Gender issues and women’s rights are a high priority of the EU’s foreign policy in the Mediterranean region. Gender equality is for example one of the five-year work plan priorities agreed by Heads of State in the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership. Within this framework, systematic political dialogue takes place including on gender issues and women rights. In Istanbul in 2006 and in Marrakesh in 2009, Ministers responsible for gender issues of the EU and the Mediterranean partners agreed a five-year working plan with concrete implementing measures. The EU has since then politically and financially supported the Plan of Action on Strengthening the Role of Women in Society in the Euro-Mediterranean region. In 2008 the European Union approved guidelines on violence against women and girls and combating all forms of discrimination against them. In the framework of these the EU is currently elaborating a regional campaign on women’s political participation in the Middle East and North Africa, to be implemented later on in 2011.