Parliament and of the Council on medicinal products for paediatric use and amending Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92, Directive 2001/83/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 ( COM(2004)0599 – C6 0159/2004 – 2004/0217(COD)) Doc.: A6-0247/2005 Procedure : Codecision (1st reading) Vote : 06.09.2005 Prospects for sick children and their families could improve following the European Parliament's vote to approve a new regulation aiming to stimulate research into and development of medicines for children. MEPs voted to adopt the report drawn up by Françoise GROSSETÊTE (EPP-ED, FR) with an overwhelming majority. During the debate ahead of the vote, the rapporteur reminded MEPs that the majority of medicines given to children in Europe have not been specifically designed for them. The pharmaceutical industry invests relatively little in this area because of the difficulty of conducting clinical trials and the small size of the market which means such investment is not profitable. Doctors therefore have little choice but to administer to children reduced doses of adult medicines, without always knowing whether they are really effective or what the side effects might be. There was a wide consensus among MEPs that the Commission's proposal should be improved to accelerate the development of medicines for children. They adopted amendments aiming to shorten procedures and administrative delays, to improve transparency and the exchange of information to prevent unnecessary clinical trials. MEPs want a research programme - to be called MICE "Medicines investigation for the children of Europe" - to be launched to adapt for children existing substances which are no longer covered by patents. MEPs also want to make the proposed Paediatric Committee more effective. This committee, within the European Medicines Agency, should be set up within six months of the entry into force of the regulation. It will have the task of independently evaluating scientific investigation plans put forward by companies wishing to benefit from the incentives created by the regulation. The main point of controversy was this last point: the way to give incentives to pharmaceutical companies to invest more. The Commission proposes that companies should have an extra six months of protection under existing patents. A number of MEPs wanted to have a shorter additional period or one which depends on the size of the company. Françoise Grossetête was firmly in favour of a fixed period. Proportionality, she said "would lead us from the logic of health to the logic of the market. Research is unpredictable. We should not add to that by introducing an unstable regulatory framework." She deplored the way debate on this point had been reduced to "arguments of carpet salesmen." John BOWIS (EPP-ED, UK) supported the rapporteur while recognising that there were different views on the issue. These differences were visible within all three of the largest political groups (EPP-ED, PES and ALDE), while the Greens; GUE/NGL and IND/DEM groups were generally in favour of shorter extensions to avoid citizens ending up financing the industry through inflated prices. Anne FERREIRA (PES, FR) for example, called for a fixed protection period of three months, with a further three months for companies with a turnover