and this transparency was relied upon to impose additional discipline on life companies by exposing details of their financial position to critical analysis by informed commentators ..." (par. 9) 2.2 Intervention powers by regulators Under the Insurance Companies Act 1982 and on specific grounds, the prudential regulators had the power to issue a direction withdrawing a company's authorisation to conduct new business and the power to intervene in a number of circumstances. In addition, a "residual power" enabled the prudential regulator to take any action needed to protect policyholders or potential policyholders against the risk that the company might be unable to meet its liabilities or fulfil the policyholders' PRE see ICA 82, Sections 11,37,38,45. . In his report, Lord Penrose specifies that " the regulatory role of DTI was underpinned by various powers of the Secretary of State under the Act, including powers to require information, to withhold approval for new controllers, and to intervene in the running of the business in various ways, ultimately including withdrawal of authorisation to write new business..." (par.10) Considering the incorporation of PRE as a trigger for intervention in 1973 "the regulator was bound to consider not only whether the concerns about PRE were sufficient to justify its exercise, but also how it might be exercised in a manner that was appropriate to the purpose ... The regulator would have to balance a number of competing interests, for instance the expectations of several groups of policyholders, or the interests of actual and potential policyholders." (par. 11) A differing interpretation had been presented to the Penrose inquiry by GAD, stating that " intervention would only be exercised where it was “obvious” that reasonable expectations were not going to be fulfilled, and that this would “stop well short” of seeking to ensure value for money or a particular level of bonus regardless of the surplus revealed by the periodic valuation ." (par.12) 2.3 Interaction of regulators Defining "initial scrutiny" as the regulator being " specifically directed ... to consider whether the documents are accurate and complete, and is required to communicate with the insurance company “with a view to the correction of any such inaccuracies and the supply of deficiencies” (par.13) In 1984, the respective responsibilities of DTI and GAD for the regulation of insurance companies were formalised in a " service level agreement " (reviewed in 1995), detailing that " DTI retained responsibility for taking formal action on behalf of the Secretary of State, and ... remained the primary interface with the company but GAD were responsible for the examination of returns and were given discretion to pursue questions directly with the insurance companies ... though they were not permitted to approach auditors directly, nor were they to contact appointed actuaries ". (par.34) The agreement set out a scheme of priority ratings (1-4) to be assigned by GAD on the basis of their initial scrutiny of returns (1=top priority, 4=low priority). A further agreement was drawn up in October 1998 for the transfer of functions from the DTI to Treasury. " The staffing levels available to