European Community institutions and Member States are in particular obliged under Article 10 TCE to cooperate with the committee. 13). Article 3(4) establishes that authorities of Member States, institutions and bodies of the European Communities shall provide the committee with the necessary documents for the performance of its duties except for well defined reasons (national security, Community legislation, etc). Paragraphs 5, second sentence and paragraph 6 of Article 3 further clarify this obligation to provide information (institutions shall not supply the committee with documents originating in a Member State without first informing the State concerned). The committee has the right to be notified of any obstacles arising out of secrecy reasons by a representative authorised to represent the government concerned. This notification has to be reasoned. 14). Article 3, paragraph 8 provides that insofar as it is necessary for the performance of its duties, the committee of inquiry may request any other person (meaning persons other than officials or civil servants or EC officials) to give evidence before it. It is quite clear that the committee has no powers to oblige a citizen to give evidence if he or she is not willing. On the other hand, the committee shall inform any person named in the course of an inquiry if this might be prejudicial to him or her. The person has the right to be heard by the committee if requested (Article 3 paragraph 8). With respect to the duties, the committee has to respect certain procedural limitations : 15). Article 2, paragraph 2 provides that Hearings and testimony shall take place in public as a general rule but witnesses and experts shall have the right to make statements or provide testimony in camera. Proceedings (meetings) shall take place in camera if requested by one quarter of the Members, or if requested by national authorities, EC institutions or when dealing with secret documents. Rule 176 paragraph 8 states that the Chairman shall ensure that the confidentiality of deliberations is respected and Rule 176 paragraph 9 provides guidance for the examination of secret or confidential documents forwarded. Part A of Annex VII to the Rules of Procedure on the consideration of confidential documents communicated to Parliament would be applicable. 16). Article 4, paragraph 1 states that the information gathered by the committee shall be used solely for the performance of its duties. It will not be made public if it contains material of a secret or confidential nature. A duty of confidentiality on Members of the committee in respect of privileged information is established; the same applies for European Union staff and other EP or Members' staff. It is clear that EU officials are subject to disciplinary measures if they break their confidentiality duties as laid down in this Article or in Decision 95/167. The same applies to national officials. For private persons or Members, responsibilities arise only in the context of the relevant national Courts or parliamentary disciplinary measures for Members (Annex VII to the Rules) 17). Rule 176 paragraph 7 establishes that a person called to give evidence before a