that the proceeding is governed by a given law which he or she considers more favourable to his or her own interests, this Regulation should introduce harmonised conflict-of-laws rules on the basis of a scale of successive connecting factors based on the existence of a close connection between the spouses /registered partners and the law concerned. These connecting factors have been chosen so that the proceeding for divorce or legal separation , or for dissolution of the registered partnership, is governed by a law with which the spouses /registered partners have a close connection, and they are based first and foremost on the law of the spouses' /registered partners' habitual residence. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation Recital 20 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (20) In certain situations, such as where the applicable law makes no provision for divorce or where it does not grant one of the spouses equal access to divorce or legal separation on grounds of their sex , the law of the court seised should nevertheless apply. (20) In certain situations, such as where the applicable law makes no provision for divorce or legal separation or for the dissolution of a registered partnership, or where it does not grant one of the spouses /registered partners equal access to divorce or legal separation , or dissolution of a registered partnership on grounds prohibited by Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union , the law of the court seised should nevertheless apply. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation Recital 22 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (22a) The term ‘habitual residence’ should be interpreted in line with the purpose of this Regulation. Its meaning should be determined by the judge in each individual case and on the basis of the facts. The term does not refer to a concept of national law but, rather, to a separate concept established in Union law. Amendment 11 Proposal for a regulation Article 1 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. This Regulation shall apply, in situations involving a conflict of laws, to divorce and legal separation. 1. This Regulation shall apply, in international situations involving a conflict of laws, to divorce , legal separation , annulment of marriage or the dissolution of registered partnerships . Amendment 12 Proposal for a regulation Article 3 – paragraph 1 – introductory wording Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The spouses may choose by mutual agreement the law applicable to divorce and legal separation, provided that such law is in conformity with the fundamental rights defined in the Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and with the principle of public policy, from among the following laws: 1. The spouses or registered partners may choose by mutual agreement the law applicable to divorce and legal separation or to the dissolution of a registered partnership , provided that such law is in conformity with the fundamental rights defined in the Treaties and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European