Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (22 March 2010) As acknowledged by the Council Recommendation on cancer screening, adopted unanimously by Health Ministers in December 2003 Council Recommendation of 2 December 2003 on cancer screening, OJ L 327, 16.12.2003. , regular breast examinations have the potential to significantly reduce mortality and improve the quality of life of people living with breast cancer by detecting the disease at an early stage, when it is more responsive to treatment. The recommendation sets out best practice principles in early detection of cancer, and invites all Member States to take common action to implement national population-based screening programmes for breast, cervical and colorectal cancer. The recommendation further invites the Commission to report on its implementation by the end of the fourth year after the date of its adoption. In this context, in December 2008 the Commission published its first Report on the implementation of the Council Recommendation on cancer screening COM(2008)882 final. . The report found that much has been done to attain high standards of screening practices across the EU. However, fewer than half of the minimum number of recommended examinations are taking place. Moreover, screening tests are not always carried out within the organisational framework necessary to guarantee thorough quality assurance. Even though the volume of activities is still far from the level to be expected, the expenditure in human and financial resources is already considerable. A sustained effort is therefore necessary at Union level and within Member States to identify effective measures to assure quality, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening activities, taking into account scientific developments. The issue of diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer as such is the responsibility of the Member States. To complement Member States’ action, the Commission has been actively supporting the development of evidence-based best practice in breast cancer screening over the last two decades and intends to continue to do so in the future. The fourth edition of the European guidelines for quality assurance in breast cancer screening was published in 2006 http://ec.europa.eu/health/ph_projects/2002/cancer/fp_cancer_2002_ext_guid_01.pdf , providing a benchmark for best European practice in breast cancer screening and diagnosis. The importance of cancer screening as a means to foster good health in an ageing Europe, has been highlighted in the EU Health Strategy COM(2007)630 final. . The recently adopted Commission Communication on the European Partnership for Action Against Cancer COM(2009)291 final. puts the goal of achieving 100 % population coverage of screening for breast, cervical and colorectal cancer as set out in the Council Recommendation on cancer screening, among its objectives for action by 2013. The European Commission is confident that the European Partnership for Action Against Cancer will further encourage those Member States that do not yet have a breast cancer screening programme according to the Council Recommendation to do so as soon as possible.