Audiovisual Initiative of the Commission and the EIB Group can promote the competitiveness of the audiovisual industry and the development of European content, if it responds flexibly to the particular character and needs of the industry. The Commission has also adopted a communication on certain legal aspects relating to cinematographic and other audiovisual works on 26 September 2001. In 2002 the Television Without Frontiers directive is to be revised. Yet these instruments are not sufficient to fundamentally alter the weak position of the European film industry. In order to do this, a change of mentality and a stronger sense of responsibility would be needed on the part of policy-makers and the industry. Moreover, European cinema can only flourish on the basis of strong national film industries. It is rare for a film to be an international success if it is not a local success. Member States have a manifest responsibility here. A strong film industry is a major source of employment. A study performed for the Commission in 1997 claimed that the turnover of the audiovisual industry could increase by 70% by 2005, which corresponded to a potential increase of 350 000 jobs. This report would rather focus on a number of positive recommendations than on a detailed analysis of why things are going wrong. The premise is that the weakness of the distribution of European films is a direct consequence of the structural problems of the European film industry as a whole. Development and production Investing in development is not part of the European film tradition. Development is expensive and most European production companies do not have enough capital. As a result, films come onto the market in an immature state, which spells disaster at the box office and damages the image of European films. In the United States, only 1 project in 10 reaches the production stage. In Europe the figure is double this, and projects are more often abandoned for financial reasons than on grounds of quality. On average, 7% of the budget of a Hollywood film is spent on development, whereas the corresponding figure in Europe is only 1 to 2%. In Europe, the development stage is often exclusively the domain of creative/production staff, while organised feedback from other parties (distributors, sales agents, cinema operators, marketers, financiers, etc.) from the inception of a project – tailored to the film, of course – can be beneficial. The decision that MEDIA Plus should concentrate inter alia on development and on supporting project packages was justified. However, development is also a responsibility of the Member States. Some, such as the UK and France, have set an example by investing more in development, and others should follow suit. Certain policy measures could encourage producers to take more interest in what happens to their films further down the line, for example the introduction of an ‘interconnection’ system: an arrangement whereby automatic support funds operated by Member States would be linked in order to give producers access to funds from other Member States as well. The EU could then pay compensation. Such interconnection would