Daily Notebook ACP : 21-11-2005 European Parliament Editor: Richard Freedman Secretariat: Sarah Donohoe Edinburgh, Scotland Edinburgh International Conference Centre (EICC) Edinburgh Tel. : (44) 131 519 4106 Mob. (32) 498 98 3239 e-mail: deve-presse@europarl.eu.int Internet: http://www.europarl.ep.ec/intcoop/acp/ Close: 7.15pm Opening Sitting Opening of the African Caribbean Pacific-European Union Assembly in Edinburgh 21 November 2005 The 10th meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Assembly (JPA) of the African Caribbean Pacific (ACP) - European Union (EU) countries opened on Monday, 21 November, in Edinburgh. The JPA brings together 77 MEPs and 77 countries from the ACP. At the opening ceremony, George REID , Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament, speaking on the subject of women stated that " their education, their reproductive health care, their social standing, their social standing, their human rights are the key to sustainable development. In a famine, if you give food to a man, he will eat it, If you give it to a woman, she will share it - and keep some seeds for next year's harvest ." Mr Reid also quoted the President of the European Parliament, Josep BORRELL when he recently addressed the Scottish Parliament and recalled his words " ending poverty is more than a moral duty and more than an expression of charity and altruism. It is also a matter of self interest.... we recognise that. We recognise that if there is to be peace and prosperity in our time it cannot be secured on the backs of a billion people living on less than a dollar day ." Co-Presidents Co-President Glenys KINNOCK (PES, UK) said " The security and prosperity we seek, I believe, depends on rules-based multilateralism. Our globalisation provides prosperity for some, and mass poverty for others. Trade justice is the key to building fairness and equity. In Hong Kong, we face our last chance to restore confidence in the Doha Development Round. The ACP will, I believe, once again, demand recognition that cotton, sugar and bananas are literally life and death issues for them ." Turning specifically to the subject of sugar, Mrs Kinnock recalled a recent mission to Jamaica and Guyana where she witnessed the importance of sugar for the ACP. ” Standing in the blistering heat of the Albion plantation in Guyana, I watched the cutters chopping down the cane. They told me the job gives them the dignity and security that no ‘hand outs’ could provide. When I asked a young father-of-four what the industry meant to him, he said: ‘Sugar means everything. It is my life .’ Mrs Kinnock continued: ” Sugar has been grown in the Caribbean for over 300 years and is linked to the region’s history of colonisation, slavery, indentureship and independence. The Sugar Protocol countries supplied tropical sugar when Europe needed it and now, they need us to understand how much they depend on the commodity. Countries need the foreign exchange earnings and the stability which sugar brings to their democracies . No one, she stated, disagrees about the need for reform, but the current proposals are simply unfair. EU beet farmers have been