17 January 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the Commission statement pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Mrs Mathieu on behalf of the EDD Group on the storm in Europe and its consequences for forest management Resolution on the storm in Europe and its consequences for forest management The European Parliament, - having regard to Article 308 (ex Article 235) of the EC Treaty, - having regard to the Council decision 1999/847/EC of 9 December 1999 establishing a Community action programme in the field of civil protection OJ L 327, 21.12.1999, p.53. and in particular, - Article 3(2)(a): ‘individual actions shall be selected primarily on the basis of the following criteria: contribution to preventing the risks and damage to persons, property and in so doing environment, in the event of natural disasters’, - Article 3(2)(b): ‘contribution to increasing the degree of preparedness of those involved in civil protection in the Member States, in order to increase their ability to respond to an emergency’, Article 3(2)(d): ‘contribution to improving the means and methods of forecasting, techniques and methods of response and immediate aftercare after emergencies’, - having regard to the resolution of the Council and the representatives of the governments of the Member States of 8 July 1991 on the improvement of mutual assistance between Member States in the event of natural and technological disasters, A. whereas forests form part of our cultural heritage, help to conserve wildlife and the natural environment, play a crucial role for the environment, contribute to biodiversity and are a key economic factor in Europe, B. having regard to the scale of the disaster which affected Europe on 26, 27 and 28 December 1999 and which can be described as an ecological disaster, C. whereas the storms have so far caused the death of over 100 people in France and in the rest of Europe, D. having regard to the urgent need for technical resources to re-establish normal living conditions for the people concerned, E. whereas many forest areas have been destroyed and many of the affected areas are still inaccessible, blocked by fallen trees, F. whereas these fallen trees amount to several hundreds of millions of cubic metres of timber in the Member States concerned, G. having regard to the plant disease risks associated with the large-scale abandonment of dead wood in the forests, 1. Congratulates the local authorities for the actions they have taken and pays tribute to the work of voluntary groups, public undertakings and the spirit of solidarity; 2. Calls on the Commission to draw the conclusions from this disaster, in particular by establishing a working party on the prevention of natural disasters; 3. Calls for the speedy establishment of material assistance as part of the exchange of mutual assistance between the Member States, in particular in respect of: - strengthening of road and forest infrastructures and their restoration, - loans of forestry equipment, - making available trained forestry personnel, - establishment of projects to avoid contamination associated with wood left in the forests and slowing down the exploitation