Answer given by Mr Michel on behalf of the Commission (7 May 2009) The initial amount allocated to Sierra Leone's National Indicative Programme (NIP) on the 10th European Development Funds (EDF) covering the period 2008‑13 totals EUR 242 million. In addition EUR 26.4 million were allocated to be mobilised in case of urgency or unforeseen needs. The Sierra Leone's 10 EDF NIP is focused on the following focal sectors: Focal sector 1. Good governance and Institutional support: EUR 37.0 million Focal sector 2. Rehabilitation of Priority Infrastructure: EUR 95.0 million General budget support: EUR 90.0 million Moreover, within the Commission decision C(2008)6493 setting aside up to EUR 200 million from the reserve for unforeseen needs of the 10th EDF to respond to the macroeconomic and social consequences of the world food prices adopted on 12 November 2008, the EC increased the allocation of resources for unforeseen needs of the country by additional EUR 6.42 million. Additionally, Sierra Leone will benefit from other interventions set up the Commission in order to cope with the food price crisis. Indeed, Sierra Leone has been allocated EUR 2.7 million from the Food Security Thematic Programme 2008 Annual Action Programme and EUR 16.2 million in the framework of the Food Facility intervention established by the Parliament and the Council on 18 December 2008. Finally Sierra Leone benefits from the EDF regional programmes as well as the interventions foreseen in the framework of the thematic programmes of the Development Cooperation Instrument. The Commission has been supporting democratic processes in Sierra Leone since the end of the civil war through the EDF interventions as well as through a political dialogue. Sierra Leone was and remains a valuable partner for the Commission bilaterally as well as in multilateral forums (United Nations, Peace building Commission, African Union). The Commission considers Sierra Leone's stability as a key element for the region. In this context, the democratic, free and fair elections in Sierra Leone played an important stabilisation role. The Commission was pleased to have provided substantial assistance to fund 2007 presidential and parliamentary elections and deployed a successful European Union (EU) Election Observation Mission, which provided valuable recommendations to foster the electoral process and democratic environment in the country. The Commission is closely engaged together with other partners and in cooperation with Sierra Leone in the field of good governance with the aim of improving security and governance, support the economic growth and to improve infrastructure and service delivery to poor people. Nevertheless, important challenges lie ahead of the country in terms of development and external factors as e.g. drugs trafficking. As regards the latter, the Commission works closely with the Economic Community of West African States (Ecowas). Moreover, Sierra Leone together with several other countries was chosen as a pilot country for the implementation of the Council Conclusions on an EU response to situations of fragility. An action plan aiming at finding the right combination of EU political, diplomatic, development, security and humanitarian instruments is being developed. The concrete actions of the plan strive to address the causes of fragility in