Answer given by Mr Spidla on behalf of the Commission (1 February 2004) Since the early 1990s the Member States' Directors-General for Industrial relations had been meeting informally twice a year to exchange views on developments on the social dialogue at Community level and on current and future activities in the field of employment law. These meetings were organised by the Directorate-General for Employment and chaired by its Director-General. This informal practice proved particularly useful because it made it possible to improve contacts between national administrations and the Commission and to learn more about Member States' opinions on the Community's initiatives. In 2002 the Commission decided to formalise the group in order to allow it to become a permanent and official forum for debate and reflection. The creation of the Group was one of the tools envisaged by the Commission in its Communication on the Social Policy Agenda COM (2000) 379 final to ensure a systematic monitoring and control of the social acquis. To this end the Commission adopted on 27 March 2002 Commission Decision 2002/260/EC OJ L 91 of 6.4.2002 . According to this Decision, the Group is created in order to provide a body for consultation, reflection, exchanges and cooperation between the Member States and the Commission in the area of labour law and industrial relations. Its mission is three-fold: a) to establish close cooperation on issues relating to the preparation of new Community initiatives, to the application and revision of the acquis communautaire and to the drawing up of research programmes, analysis, studies and publications; b) to monitor the development of policies; c) to facilitate the exchange of experiences and good practices. The Group as such does not intervene in the drafting of new Community initiatives which remains a competence of the Commission. However, it provides a useful feed back to the Commission in the identification of problems and on ways to tackle them at Community level.