un constat ou un rapport faux sera puni des peines prévues à l’art. 307 du code pénal 17. -En vertu de l'article 170 (2) Celui qui, sans motif légal, refuse de faire une déclaration ou de remettre des documents sera puni des peines prévues à l’art. 292 du code pénal. UK-House of Lords Ordinarily witnesses attend and documents are produced voluntarily. Should it be necessary to compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of papers, an order of the House would be required. Relations with the Courts 7. Can PCIs be established on matters under judicial review? 8. If yes, do the PCI and the Court work independently or are there specific procedures to combine the work of the two bodies? 9. In the case of cooperation, which procedures are in place to ensure the proper separation of powers? Austria Yes They are working independently; however, the courts are obliged to comply with the PCIs' request to take evidence and to make their files available to them. - Belgium Oui En vertu de l'article 1 de la loi du 3 Mai 1880 En cas de concours d'une enquête parlementaire et d'une enquête judiciaire, le déroulement normal de cette dernière ne peut être entravé. - Finland Yes Independently - France Non: lorsque les faits ont donné lieu à des poursuites judiciaires et aussi longtemps que les poursuites sont en cours, mais il a été admis depuis 1971 que l'existence de poursuites judiciaires n'est pas un obstacle insurmontable à la création d'une commission dans la mesure de l'étendue des faits dont est saisie, pour sa part, l'autorité judiciaire. Il n’y a, quoiqu’il en soit, pas de collaboration entre les commissions d’enquête et les institutions judiciaires dans le cas d’enquêtes parallèles. Les deux organes travaillent indépendamment l’une de l’autre. Germany No: According to Article 44 (4) of the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany, the decisions of investigative committees shall not be subject to judicial review. - According to Article 44 (4), the courts shall be free to evaluate and rule upon the facts that were the subject of the investigation. Greece Yes PCIs and the Courts work independently - Ireland No: Generally speaking, they would stay away from matters which are subject to some court proceedings. - - Italy-Chamber Yes The PCI and the Court work independently - Italy-Senate Yes There might be specific procedures. - Netherlands Yes There are no specific procedures to combine the work of the PCI and the Court, but the two bodies should ensure that there is a minimum of interference between their works. - Spain-Senate Yes Independently According to Section 60.3 of the Senate's Standing Orders, The conclusions reached by these Committees shall be rendered public unless an overall or partial decision to the contrary needs to be adopted. Those conclusions shall neither be binding upon the Courts nor will they affect judicial resolutions. Spain-Congress Yes Independently According to Section 60.3 of the Senate's Standing Orders, The conclusions reached by these Committees shall be rendered public unless an overall or partial decision to the contrary