duty to report facts and decisions that may affect the functioning of the undertaking. A number of provisions are devoted to providing the necessary harmonisation of the financial guarantees of assurance undertakings. Detailed guidelines and principles are given on technical reserves, the covering assets and the methods for their calculation, determination of investment categories and valuation, matching rules and asset localisation rules. In turn, other articles provide for the coordination of rules relating to solvency margins, the items they may include and the minimum solvency margin that must be implemented for each type of assurance underwritten. The Directive also includes provisions aimed at the further harmonisation of conduct of business rules, including those governing the information to be provided to policyholders and the minimum cancellation period to which policyholders must be entitled. The 2002 consolidated Directive (CD) The aim of the 2002 recast Directive was to consolidate Community provisions on life assurance so as to provide the public with a single, clear and readily understandable text. The majority of the directive's provisions are a restatement of those contained in the 1LD, 2LD and 3LD. The only new provisions relate to: the definition of a regulated market, dates concerning the activities of composite undertakings, calculation of future profits, presentation of a scheme of operations by third country branches to be established in the EU, abolition of derogations, and rights acquired by existing branches. Other recent legislation · Directive 95/26/EC reinforcing prudential supervision . This Directive modified several financial services directives, and amongst them the 3LD, with the objective of strengthening the powers of the supervisory authorities to prevent fraud when a financial undertaking forms part of a group. Specifically, this Directive regulates disclosure of group information to competent authorities and defines and clarifies concepts such as "close links". The Directive also requires that an auditor report promptly to the authorities whenever he becomes aware of certain facts which are liable to have a serious effect on the financial situation or the administrative and accounting organization of a financial undertaking. · Directive 2002/12/EC. Also known as Solvency I , it is aimed at strengthening life assurances’ solvency requirements in order to ensure adequate capital requirements. To this end, the previous solvency margin regime from the 1970s is changed: a limit is set on the possibility of including future profits in the available solvency margin and an obligation to phase them out by 2009 is introduced. Secondly, the existing minimum guarantee fund is increased and is periodically adjusted according to inflation. Finally, early intervention by the regulator to take remedial action is strengthened, when the undertaking’s position is deteriorating and policyholders’ interests are threatened. · Directive 2002/87/EC on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate. This Directive constitutes the first initiative in moving away from a sector-specific regulatory approach in order to tackle the challenges raised by financial conglomerates, for example, by requiring the establishment of proper lines of communication between supervisory authorities responsible for different financial industries. · Directive 2005/1/EC on a new organisational structure for