subpoint b.1 ? b.1 the person was summoned in person or informed in accordance with the national law of the issuing Member State through a competent representative and in due time , of the scheduled date and place of the hearing which led to the decision rendered in absentia and informed about the fact that such a decision may be handed down in case the person does not appear for the trial ? b.1 the person was directly summoned in person or by other means actually received official information in due time and in a language which he or she understood, in accordance with the national law of the issuing State, about the scheduled date and place of the trial which led to the decision in such a manner that it was unequivocally established that the person concerned was aware of the scheduled date and place of the trial and was personally informed that a decision may be handed down if he or she did not appear at the trial Time and place when and where the person was summoned or otherwise informed : Time and place when and where the person was summoned or received the official information in person by other means : …………………………………………… …………………………………………… Language in which the information was delivered : …………………………………………… Describe how the person was informed: Describe how the person was informed: …………………………………………… OR …………………………………………… OR Amendment 54 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 5 – point 3 Framework Decision 2008/.../JHA Annex – box k – point 1 - subpoint b.1 a (new) ? b.1a after having been directly summoned in person or by other means having actually received official information about the scheduled date and place of the trial in such a manner that it was unequivocally established that he or she was aware of the trial, had given an explicit mandate to a legal counsellor who was chosen, appointed and paid by the person concerned or who was appointed and paid by the State in accordance with its national law applicable to the rights of the defence, and was indeed defended by that counsellor during the trial; Provide information on how this condition was met: …………………………………………… OR Amendment 55 Initiative by the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany – amending act Article 5 – point 3 Framework Decision 2008/.../JHA Annex – box k – point 1 - subpoint b.2 ? b.2 the person, after being served with the decision rendered in absentia , expressly stated that he or she does not contest the decision rendered in absentia . ? b.2 the person, after being personally served with the decision and being expressly informed, in a language which he or she understood, about the right to a retrial or to an appeal, in which he or she would have the