Answer given by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (21 August 2006) In May 2006 at the Vienna Summit, the Heads of State and Government of the European Union and of Latin America and the Caribbean decided to launch negotiations for an Association Agreement between the EU and Central America. It is in this framework that El Salvador, a member of the Central America Integration System, will be involved in bi-regional negotiations which in principle will start in early 2007. The promotion of human rights will be addressed through a ‘human rights and democracy clause’ which is traditionally an essential element of the agreements negotiated by the EU. The Commission attaches much importance to the issue of human rights in a country such as El Salvador, in particular after all the efforts deployed in support to the peace and reconciliation process of the last 14 years. Though the situation in the country has significantly improved, more can still be done. The Commission has enhanced its presence in the country (with the nomination in 2005 of a Chargé d’Affaires to head the Regionalised Delegation) and, in close coordination with the Member States, is monitoring developments in the human rights field and discussing these with government as well as with civil society representatives. Such exchanges take place also in the framework of the programming and implementation of EC cooperation with El Salvador. Finally, discussions are also taking place in relation to the EU ‘GSP+’ (generalised system of preferences) incentive which requires the ratification and implementation of international conventions relating to core political, human and labour rights. In the regional context, political interaction between Central America and the EU has been shaped by the San José Dialogue, launched in Costa Rica in 1984. This annual dialogue was originally conceived to support the peace process and democracy in the region. It was confirmed in 1996 and 2002 and will now be further reinforced through the signing of the bi-regional association agreement.