Answer given by Mrs Hübner on behalf of the Commission (31 January 2005) The Commission wishes to inform the Honourable Member that in its proposals for the new structural funds regulations for the period 2007-2013 it explicitly takes account for the first time of areas facing natural and geographical handicaps in the programming, implementation and monitoring of structural interventions. Thus, the draft general Regulation recognises the necessity to strengthen action in favour of ‘[…] certain islands, […] SEC(2004)924, Recital 15, Articles 3§3 and 52§1(bi) of the Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund ’. Since there are no standardised and widely accepted indicators at Community level to specifically measure these handicaps, the Commission proposes to employ population density, which is a good proxy of geographical handicap. This indicator would be used in the distribution of financial resources between Member States under the ‘Regional competitiveness and employment’ objective SEC(2004)924, Article 17§1(a) . The application of this indicator at NUTS III level would allow for further financial resources to regions including areas with permanent geographical handicaps. In addition, Member States and regions of the ‘regional competitiveness and employment’ objective would have the possibility to increase the maximum Community contribution (50%) by five percentage points when the programme or part of the programme mainly concerns these areas SEC(2004)924, Article 52.1(b)i . The increase cannot result in a total Community contribution exceeding 60% of public expenditure. The draft European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) Regulation SEC(2004)924, Recital 10 and Article 10 further recognises the need for the programmes financed by the ERDF to take account of the areas facing natural and geographical handicaps, in particular by concentrating on those investments particularly needed in these areas. It therefore appears that for the period 2007-2013 the Commission proposes a system which ensures that, while the eligibility of these regions will be determined on the basis of the objective criteria defined in the draft general Regulation SEC(2004)924, Articles 5-7 , the ‘territorial’ criteria are given particular attention in both eligibility and financial terms.