{ "context": [ [ "Rectrix Aviation", [ "Rectrix Aviation is a jet charter and commuter airline service that primarily serves New England, Florida and the east coast.", " Its commercial operations are based out of Nantucket Memorial Airport and Barnstable Municipal Airport in Nantucket, MA and Hyannis, MA, respectively.", " The only commercial flight it operates is between Nantucket and Hyannis.", " Rectrix Shuttle, the commuter service, was founded when Island Airlines of Nantucket shut down." ] ], [ "John F. Kennedy Memorial Airport", [ "John F. Kennedy Memorial Airport (IATA: ASX, ICAO: KASX, FAA LID: ASX) is a city and county owned public use airport located two nautical miles (4 km) southwest of the central business district of Ashland, a city in Ashland County, Wisconsin, United States.", " It is also known as JFK Memorial Airport." ] ], [ "Waukegan National Airport", [ "Waukegan National Airport (IATA: UGN, ICAO: KUGN, FAA LID: UGN) is a public use airport located in Waukegan, a city in Lake County, Illinois, United States.", " The airport is 35 nmi north of the central business district of Chicago.", " It was originally named Waukegan Memorial Airport.", " It has been operated by the Waukegan Port District since 1956 and is the second busiest airport in Illinois for international arrivals.", " In January 2014 under a FAA reclassification of the airport and many others smaller airports across the United States, the airport was renamed Waukegan National Airport" ] ], [ "Peach State Airport", [ "Alexander Memorial Airport (FAA LID: GA2) , also known as Peach State Aerodrome or Candler Field, is a public grass strip located 1 mile (1.6 km) west of Williamson, Georgia, in the United States.", " Alexander Memorial Airport is located in picturesque rural Pike County, 27 nautical miles (50 km) south of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport." ] ], [ "Wiley Post–Will Rogers Memorial Airport", [ "Wiley Post–Will Rogers Memorial Airport, (IATA: BRW, ICAO: PABR, FAA LID: BRW) often referred to as Post/Rogers Memorial is a public airport located in Utqiaġvik, a city in the North Slope Borough of the U.S. state of Alaska.", " The airport is owned by the state.", " Situated on the Chukchi Sea at a latitude of 71.29°N, the airport is the farthest north of any in US territory.", " The airport is named after American humorist Will Rogers and aviator Wiley Post, both of whom died about 9 mi away at Point Barrow in a 1935 airplane crash." ] ], [ "Neutrophil swarming", [ "Neutrophil swarming is a specific type of neutrophil migration behaviour characterised by a high coordination between neutrophils, clustering of neutrophils to the inflammation site and signalling to other neutrophils further away.", " This specific type of migration rely on the production and secretion of LTB4 and on the use of integrins for neutrophil to stop at the cluster site." ] ], [ "Petersburg James A. Johnson Airport", [ "Petersburg James A. Johnson Airport (IATA: PSG, ICAO: PAPG, FAA LID: PSG) is a state owned, public use airport located one nautical mile (2 km) southeast