Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (27 May 2008) The Commission is aware of the critical situation of the orang utan and of deforestation in Indonesia. The Commission has long been a major donor to the forest sector in Indonesia. Commission efforts to support the conservation and sustainable use of Indonesian forests date back to the 1990s and amount to over a EUR 100 million. Since 2002, nine projects have been, or are currently funded in this area. In addition, the Commission is currently reflecting on how to enhance its support to sustainable forest management in Indonesia. One of these projects, ‘Promoting conservation and sustainable management of the lowland forests of south central Kalimantan’ is coordinated and implemented by the ‘Orang Utan Foundation’. It focuses on sustainable forest management and targets an area with an important orang utan population. The Commission has also provided, through the former Budget Line for Environment and Tropical Forests, EUR 2.4 million in support to a multi-donor the United Nations Environment Programme/United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNEP/Unesco) project protecting the great apes and their ecosystems worldwide. One component of this action targets the orang utan in Indonesia. In addition, the Commission has also signed the Kinshasa Declaration by which it commits to ‘provide effective and coherent support, including funding, to assist efforts made by the great ape range states’. Further more, the EC is also currently negotiating, with Indonesia, a Voluntary Partnership Agreement in the framework of the FLEGT initiative. The aim is to improve the legislative framework, law enforcement, governance and trade aspects linked to forests and the logging industry and, thus, significantly reduce levels of illegal logging. This will also benefit apes. Finally, the EU actively supports the CITES Convention with the aim of strictly controlling international trade in endangered species and tackling any illegal trade in this species that might occur in the region.