event, an insured person shall always be granted the authorisation pursuant to Regulations on coordination of social security referred to in Article 3(1)(k ) of this Directive whenever the conditions of Article 22 (1)(c) and Article 22 (2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 are met. 2. Any such procedural systems shall be easily accessible and capable of ensuring that requests are dealt with objectively and impartially within reasonable time limits set out and made public in advance by the Member States. ▌ 3. Member States of affiliation shall ensure that patients who have received prior authorisation for cross-border healthcare will only be required to make upfront or top-up payments to the healthcare systems and/or providers in the Member State of treatment, to the extent that such payments would be required in the Member State of affiliation itself. 4. Member States shall, when setting out the time limits within which requests for cross-border healthcare must be dealt with and, when considering these requests , take into account: (a) the specific medical condition, (b) individual circumstances, ( c ) the patient's degree of pain, ( d ) the nature of the patient's disability, and ( e ) the patient's ability to carry out a professional activity. 5. Prior authorisation application systems shall be made available at the level appropriate for the administration of the Member State's health service and must be accessible and transparent to patients. The rules for application and refusal of prior authorisation must be available in advance of an application so that the application can be made in a fair and transparent way. 6 . Member States shall ensure that any administrative or medical decisions regarding cross-border healthcare are subject , on a case-by-case basis, to a medical opinion or an administrative review and also capable of being challenged in judicial proceedings, which include provision for interim measures. 7. The Commission shall conduct a feasibility study into the establishment of a clearing house to facilitate the reimbursement of costs under this Directive across borders, healthcare systems and currency zones within two years of the entry into force of this Directive and shall report back to the European Parliament and the Council and, if appropriate, present a legislative proposal. Article 10 Prior notification Member States may offer patients a voluntary system of prior notification whereby, in return for such notification, the patient shall receive a written confirmation of the maximum amount that will be paid. That written confirmation can then be taken to the hospital of treatment and reimbursement would then be made directly to that hospital by the Member State of affiliation. Article 11 European Patients Ombudsman The Commission shall present a legislative proposal to establish a European Patients Ombudsman within 18 months after the entry into force of this Directive. The European Patients Ombudsman shall consider and, if appropriate, mediate on patient complaints with regard to prior authorisation, reimbursement of costs or harm. The European Patients Ombudsman shall only be engaged once all the complaint options within the relevant Member State have been exhausted . Article 12 Information for patients