for cooperation with human rights organisations in this process; 70. Welcomes the Nanavati Commission report and the Government's Action Taken Report on the violence against Sikhs in 1984, and calls on the Government of India to fulfil its promises to hold the perpetrators to account promptly and with earnest commitment; 71. With regard to discrimination and violence against women, urges the government to continue its specific measures to effectively eliminate domestic violence and provide assistance for victims; calls also for continuing efforts to be undertaken to promote the education of girls, thereby complying with Millennium Development Goals 2 and 3; 72. Recognises that for centuries India has preserved a multi-ethnic, multi-religious, multi-cultural and linguistically diverse society within its territory, offering an example to the West and to Europe, and calls on the Indian Government to guard particularly against the emergence of inter-ethnic, inter-religious and inter-cultural tensions among communities, which would jeopardise the country's secular heritage of tolerance and coexistence; 73. Aware of the new Government's proven will to modernise, urges it to press on resolutely with the reform of the exceedingly slow and antiquated judicial system; points out that, on occasion, the slow operation of the justice system or particular instances of malpractice or failure to act on the part of the police, particularly as regards certain rape cases, lead to frustration among the population, prompting it to take justice into its own hands; welcomes, nevertheless, the fact that this has generated a public debate on these issues in particular and on the situation as regards the justice system in general; 74. Calls on the New Delhi government to abolish the use of the death penalty in its judicial system; 75. Draws attention to the fact that India is one of the few democratic countries not to have ratified the United Nations Convention Against Torture, which entered into force in 1987, and notes that said ratification is a vital pre-requisite for the strengthening of relations between the EU and India; calls on it also to ratify the conventions on the abolition of child labour and on the promotion of collective bargaining; 76. Stresses that the EU must urge India to comply fully with the recommendations of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination; 77. Urges India to sign up to the International Criminal Court; 78. Calls on the Council and the Commission to enter into a dialogue with India on the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, the abolition of the death penalty, the ratification in particular of the conventions against torture and child labour together with the additional protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and to the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women; International situation 79. Notes that the planned strategic association between Washington and New Delhi provides for the sale of US aircraft and the sharing of space and civilian-use nuclear technology; 80. Recognises that India has played a major role in conflict prevention and peacekeeping, for example in Afghanistan; takes notes of its reaction to