Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (17 January 2012) 1. Responsibility for ensuring that products placed on the EU market are safe lies with manufacturers and importers. Responsibility for enforcing the applicable legislation lies with the Member States. Information about products posing serious risks is exchanged between the Member States through the RAPEX system, so that all authorities can adopt appropriate measures to protect consumers. 2. In order to prevent the export of dangerous consumer products from China to the EU, the Commission has a regular dialogue, including an exchange of notifications concerning products of Chinese origin via the ‘RAPEX-China’ system, with Chinese authorities, which follow up these notifications directly on the ground and adopt preventive or restrictive measures. 3. The Commission is not aware of specific cases of use of toxic waste in Chinese products exported to Europe. To address potential safety issues posed by products made in China, the cooperation mechanisms mentioned above have been in place for several years. 4. According to EU rules In particular Directive 2001/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 December 2001 on general product safety, OJ L 11, 15.1.2002. , all products are subject to the same safety requirements, regardless of where they are made. National authorities carry out their inspections on the basis of risk profiles which take into account various characteristics of the inspected products. 5 According to Regulation (EC) 013/2006 on shipment of wastes OJ L 190, 12.7.2006. , the export of hazardous wastes from the EU to countries where the OECD Decision OECD Council Decision C(2001)107 final. does not apply, such as China, is prohibited. By way of measures to prevent and detect illegal shipments, this regulation lays down obligations for Member States to provide for inspections of undertakings and for spot checks. The Commission is not aware of any specific cases of exports of hazardous wastes to China.