airport users is publicly accessible. 4. Subject to national legislation, the information provided on the basis of this Article shall be regarded as confidential or economically sensitive and handled accordingly. In the case of airport managing bodies that are quoted on a stock exchange, stock exchange regulations in particular shall be complied with. Article 8 More stringent measures 1. The additional costs of implementing more stringent measures pursuant to Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 300/2008 shall be borne by the Member States . ▌ 2. Before adopting measures pursuant to Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 300/2008, the Commission shall undertake an impact assessment with regard to the effects on the level of security charges. The Commission shall consult the Stakeholders‘ Advisory Group constituted under Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 300/2008 about the outcome of this impact assessment. Article 9 Cost-relatedness of security charges Security charges shall be used exclusively to meet security costs. These costs shall be determined using the principles of accounting and evaluation generally accepted in each of the Member States. The total revenue from security charges shall not be higher than the total costs of aviation security for that airport, airport network, or group of airports. However, Member States shall ensure that particular account is taken of: – the cost of financing the facilities and installations dedicated to security operations, including fair depreciation in the value of these facilities and installations; – the national and/or international level of the security threat; – the expenditure on security staff and security operations; – the grants and subsidies allocated by the authorities for security purposes. The cost base for the calculation of security charges shall not include any costs that would be incurred for more general security functions performed by Member States such as general policing, intelligence gathering and national security. Article 10 Independent supervisory authority 1. Member States shall nominate or establish an independent body as their national independent supervisory authority in order to ensure the correct application of the measures taken to comply with this Directive. That body may be the same as the entity entrusted by a Member State with the application of Directive 2009/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2009 on airport charges OJ L 70, 14.3.2009, p. 11. . 2. This Directive shall not prevent the national independent supervisory authority from delegating, under its supervision and full responsibility, and in compliance with national law, the implementation of this Directive to other independent supervisory authorities, provided that implementation takes place in accordance with the same standards. 3. Member States shall guarantee the independence of the independent supervisory authority by ensuring that it is legally distinct from and functionally independent of any competent body or air carrier. Member States that retain ownership or control of airports, airport managing bodies or air carriers shall ensure effective structural separation of the regulatory function from activities associated with ownership or control. Member States shall ensure that the independent supervisory authority exercises its powers impartially and transparently. 4. Member States shall notify to the