firmly raise this issue with their Russian counterparts at the forthcoming EU-Russia summit and during the negotiations on a new strengthened partnership agreement, and urges the Russian authorities not to oppose an eventual ESDP mission in the region, including an EU presence in civilian and military peacekeeping operations; 6. Urges the Council, the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy and his special envoy to the southern Caucasus to make every effort to contribute to facilitating the dialogue between the parties, defusing tension and restoring mutual confidence; 7. Welcomes the fact, as regards the 21 May elections, that the election day was, all in all, calm and generally assessed positively, and that substantial progress has been made since the January presidential elections; 8. Stresses, however, that further efforts have to be made in close cooperation with the international community to address and solve all the problems identified in the electoral process caused by the inconsistent and incomplete implementation of the OSCE and Council of Europe standards, and to improve and consolidate Georgia's democratic achievements; 9. Takes note of the final results, and calls on the majority and opposition forces to engage in a substantial, constructive and responsible dialogue in order to deal thoroughly with the many challenges Georgia is facing today; 10. Reiterates its call on Russia to lift its unjustified import ban on Georgian agricultural products which was enforced almost two years ago; 11. Urges the Commission and the Member States to start negotiations on the EU-Georgia readmission and visa facilitation agreements as soon as possible, in order to ensure that citizens of Georgia are not disadvantaged compared to those holding Russian passports in the separatist regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia; 12. Welcomes the setting-up of the EU-Georgia Subcommittee on Justice, Freedom and Security, with a view to stepping up the bilateral dialogue and implementing the ENP Action Plan; 13. Supports Georgia's aspirations towards closer integration with the European Union; in this regard, urges the Council to finalise a mandate for the Commission in order to start negotiations with Georgia on a broad and comprehensive free trade agreement; 14. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission and the Member States, the President and Parliament of Georgia, the OSCE, the Council of Europe, and the President and Parliament of the Russian Federation.