Answer given by Mr Šefčovič on behalf of the Commission (11 May 2011) EPSO is responsible for the organisation of the entire selection process, from preparing and publishing the notice of competition to managing and monitoring the use of the reserve lists. 1. The processing of personal data in the context of open competitions, including computer-based testing, was duly notified to the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS) already in 2006. This notification has since been updated to reflect changes in the selection procedure. Contracts between EPSO and all of its external contractors contain binding clauses regarding the protection of personal data. Where computer-based testing (CBT) is used, EPSO gives the contractor organising those tests certain information to allow verification of the identity of people attending the examination. The contractor is not given direct access to EPSO database(s) containing personal data of applicants. EPSO's CBT contractor, Prometric, is considered to be ‘a safe harbour company’ (i.e. the Commission recognises by its Decision 2000/520/EC OJ L 215, 25.8.2000. that this company offers a level of protection of personal data equivalent to what is required under Directive 95/46/EC OJ L 281, 23.11.1995. ) and therefore the limited transfer of personal data is in line with Article 9 of Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 OJ L 8, 12.1.2001. . 2. Since taking up duty in EPSO, the Director has carried out nine missions to the United States (four in 2008, two in 2009, two in 2010 and one in 2011) at a total cost of EUR 45 919. The main purpose of the missions, particularly in 2008, was fact-finding on best practice in selection procedures, and exchanges with the United Nations in the framework of the EC‑UN Cooperation Agreement following their request for increased cooperation. This obviated the need for hiring management consultants and was a highly cost-effective way of finding out how to improve the institutions' selection procedures. These and subsequent missions also included meetings with the US State Department, the International Monetary Fund, the US Federal Government and the Canadian Public Service, attendance at a Conference of the Association of Test Providers, the Kenexa World Conference, the International Organisations Fair, as well as annual meetings with the Chief Executive Officer of Prometric. 3. Since the first cycle of competitions under the new methodology is not complete it is too soon to establish useful comparisons between old and new selection methods. Furthermore, the consequence of decisions by institutions to reduce the numbers of laureates on reserve lists to proportions more in line with financial perspectives, and therefore real recruitment possibilities, risks creating distortion. The calculation of cost per hire would therefore provide more meaningful information. A joint initiative is under way between EPSO and the Association for Human Resources Management in International Organisations (AHRMIO) to make a comparative analysis of the cost of selection and recruitment between EPSO and other international public sector bodies.