Liberalisation of fishing is directly threatening them of their livelihoods. For this reason the current trade negotiations at the WTO and in bilateral trade agreements should be reviewed in order to prevent the complete liberalisation of markets in areas such as forest products, fish and fish products, water extraction and distribution, and the management of natural parks, including biodiversity hotspots, the patenting of life forms, and the appropriation of traditional knowledge for the benefit of investors. These trade negotiations concern millions of people obliged eventually to abandon the areas where they live for big cities and eventually to migrate. Some steps are being taken in the right direction. The UN Convention to Combat Desertification, the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands and the Convention on Biodiversity, that recognises that communities need to participate fully in the management of their ecosystems. But much more political will is necessary in order to give these intentions an effective obligatory legal framework. Today, with global urgency on climate change, and all environmental destruction, the imbalance between, on the one hand, trade rules with sanctions and, on the other, soft environmental laws is particularly costly and inadequate to the necessities of the society. The states and the legislators have the urgent responsibility to correct it. Agriculture and commodities Agriculture is another very sensitive area for the situation of the poor, both in industrialised and in developing countries. Since the WTO’s Agreement on Agriculture was signed in 1994, food is increasingly treated as just another industrial good to be produced and sold anywhere to those that can afford it. This has created enormous changes in the situation of the poor with a mass migration of people to the cities. And this has been limiting the food sovereignty especially for developing countries and the possibility of the poor to have access to safe food at fair prices. The current rules have generated particularly inequitable terms of trade for small or middle farmers worldwide. The consequence - An extraordinarily high number of small farms both in the South and the North are disappearing. Monoculture is encouraged by the same rules that benefit enormously international agribusiness, with dramatic consequences on the environment. The cultivation of soy bean to feed protein to European animals, at the expense of balanced farming in Europe, the Amazonian Forest and small farmers in Brazil, Argentina and Bolivia, is only one possible example of the disastrous consequences of such a policy. Therefore it is essential to reorient the European CAP in order to limit subsidies to support real sustainable agriculture, and the defence of the social and territorial functions of agriculture. All intent to postpone it would only increase the social and environmental costs. During the last 15 years, the EU has been dismantling nearly all instruments aimed to stabilise the price of commodities, particularly in its relations with ACP countries, arguing that they were not yielding sufficient results (Systmin, Stabex...) or that they were not compatible with WTO rules. Within the same period, prices of most commodities for producers have diminished drastically, with enormous consequences on the poor