the Community action programme to encourage cooperation between Member States to combat social exclusion, which aims at improving understanding and organising mutual learning within the context of Member States’ national action plans to combat poverty and social exclusion, 1. Calls on the whole European Union to formally recognise 17 October as European Day to Overcome Extreme Poverty ; 2. Calls on the European institutions to speak out clearly in favour of a partnership with associations that tackle extreme poverty, and to give social policies equal priority with economic policies; 3. Calls on the Commission, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee, and its Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to make a public assessment, every 17 October, of Community policies on combating extreme poverty and social exclusion, carried out in cooperation with social players, especially those who speak on behalf of the very poor; 4. Calls on the Member States and candidate countries to join such an initiative at local, regional and national levels; 5. Welcomes the Belgian Presidency’s initiative of organising a joint meeting at the European Parliament on 17 October 2001, between the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission, in the form of an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, to present and discuss the Commission’s report on social inclusion, in the presence of NGOs, the Committee on Social Protection and representatives of the Member States; 6. Calls on the Member States to develop workable strategies, including exchange of best practice, to ensure equal access to all fundamental rights such as education, housing and health care and to culture and sustainable employment, as part of their national plan for social inclusion, and to give priority to the most vulnerable; 7. Calls on the Commission to draw up a report on the economic, social and human costs of poverty and social exclusion in cooperation with the Member States, the trade union organisations, and associations that work against poverty; 8. Believes that the new information and communication technologies can contribute to reducing social exclusion; therefore considers it essential to encourage access to the information society for all; 9. Mindful that the European Council in Nice approved the objectives of combating poverty and social exclusion adopted by the Council and that the Member States presented their national action plans covering a two-year period in June 2001; calls on the Council – in accordance with the mandate given by the European Council meeting in Stockholm – to improve monitoring of action in this field by agreeing on indicators for combating social exclusion by the end of the year; 10. Calls for a stone to commemorate the victims of extreme poverty to be placed in the area in front of the European Parliament in Brussels, similar to the stones at the Trocadero in Paris, the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, the Reichstag in Berlin, the basilica of St John Lateran in Rome, and the United Nations in New York; 11. Calls on the European institutions to clearly show their support for a close partnership with the associations working to