Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (7 July 2010) The Commission is aware of increased investor demand for land, leading to large scale land acquisitions in developing countries, notably in Africa. Nevertheless, it must be noted that reliable information on this phenomenon is rather scarce. Reports based on detailed multi-country case studies were published by the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED), the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and the spell out (IFAD) in May 2009 http://www.fao.org/docrep/011/ak241e/ak241e00.htm and by spell out (GTZ) in February 2010 http://www2.gtz.de/urbanet/library/detail1.asp?number=7529 . Both reports highlight the constraints in obtaining reliable data on the land deals. The GTZ study provides an overview in annex with reported foreign direct investment (FDI) in land (2000‑09) exceeding 5 000 ha, with names of investor companies, target and originating countries, dimension type of land use and business status. The Commission does not have any information about the involvement of European operators in agricultural lands investments. Ongoing research by the World Bank, FAO, UNCTAD, OECD, International Land Coalition e.o. will provide additional info and it is expected that this will be the subject of presentations and discussions at the next Comity on Food Security meeting in October 2010. The increased level of agricultural investments could, on the one hand, be an opportunity to contribute to a more productive agriculture and reduce poverty in developing countries. On the other hand, if not well managed, it could lead to unintended negative impacts in social, economic and environmental terms. To minimise the risk of negative effects prevailing, recipient countries need to negotiate contracts wisely and consultation and participation processes should be put in place as to ensure early involvement of local communities, respect of customary land rights, appropriate compensation and sustainable management of natural resources. As they often have customary tenure systems but no documented right, local communities, women, pastoralist and indigenous groups are particularly vulnerable to dispossession. In this context, the development at international level of principles, guidelines and codes of conduct for responsible investments in agriculture associated with land acquisitions, as well as the FAO voluntary guidelines on the right to food and the forthcoming FAO voluntary guidelines on governance of land and other natural resources, are expected to provide useful references for governments to establish necessary conditions to secure people's rights to land. Since February 2009 the Commission and several EU Member States represented in the informal EU working group on land issues, have been following closely the increasing trends of commercial presures on land and large scale land acquisitions in developping countries. This EU coordination includes regular consultations with a group of International Organisations (WB, FAO, IFAD, spell out UNCTAD) participating in an initiative to develop an international framework on responsible investments in agriculture (RAI), which was launched at a roundtable meeting in New York on 23 September 2009. Subsequent conferences have taken place where the proposed framework on RAI has been presented and discussed, such as at the European Development Days in Stockholm in October 2009, a roundtable on RAI held at the Millennium Challenge Corporation