President of the ECB has been assigned the specific responsibility of chairing the Executive Board and the Governing and General Councils according to Art 13 of the Statute of the ESCB and the ECB. The same Article also refers to the same responsibilities for the Vice-President acting on the President’s behalf in the event of his absence. Article 11.6 of the Statute states that the Executive Board is “responsible for the current business of the bank”. This means a collective and collegiate responsibility. To organise matters efficiently, Article 10.2 of the Rules of Procedure of the ECB recognises that, while all work units of the ECB are under the management of the whole Executive Board, individual responsibilities are allocated for certain activities with a view to achieving a degree of burden-sharing and some division of labour. The Executive Board collectively decides, with the explicit consent of the President, which Executive Board member prepares decision-making for which specific functions and who oversees and guides the work required by the ECB staff for this preparation. I think that this is a very sensible solution which has worked well in the past. I expect it will also work well in the future. One member of the Executive Board is particularly responsible for Economics and Research, and it is this member who you refer to as the “Chief Economist”. In my personal opinion, this assignment does not prejudge the collective management of the ECB which is exercised by the Executive Board, and the collective economic diagnosis and decision-making on monetary policy which is performed by the Governing Council, composed of the six members of the Executive Board and the twelve National Central Bank Governors. Following those Governing Council meetings which are devoted to monetary policy, the President of the ECB acts as the spokesman and makes public the views of the Council. 13. Shouldn't the different responsibilities of Board members change with time, in line with the changes occurred in the ECB's tasks and priorities? As a member of the Board of the Bank of Spain, I am aware that the Executive Board has reviewed the issue of its functioning and its role in the management of the ECB, and has explicitly provided that individual Executive Board members should not only guide the work of individual business areas, but also be responsible for a number of cross-organisational functions and tasks. Personally, I too would find it natural for Executive Board members to change some of their activities during their eight-year term of office. This makes even more sense in the light of the collegiality principle mentioned above. Another reason for the rotation of responsibilities among Executive Board members is the very fact that ECB tasks and priorities themselves may change over time. For instance, the role of the ECB in financial stability issues, the significance of EU enlargement for the ECB and the management of the ECB’s human resources are examples of tasks that have evolved considerably over the last six years. Whether or not the same Executive Board member should continue to take care of