tendencies among European governments based on population trends to urge their citizens not to rely on state pensions but to purchase private schemes instead . It is one of the major objectives of the Third Life Directive to ensure " adequate protection " See for instance Recitals 2 and 4 of the Directive. of policyholders through rigorous supervision. As was shown in Parts II and III of this report, the UK regulators failed in a number of respects to supervise and monitor the financial health of Equitable Life, including its state of solvency, the establishment of adequate technical provisions and the covering of those provisions by matching assets, according to the requirements laid down in the Third Life Directive. Had the UK regulators correctly applied the provisions of the Directive, they would most likely have achieved its objective to 'ensure adequate protection of policyholders' and thus have avoided the crisis at Equitable Life, which caused substantial losses to policyholders. As this part of the report illustrates, there have been no adequate remedies available for aggrieved policyholders to recuperate their losses either under UK or EU law. As regards EU law, it is questionable, given the judgments in comparable cases, if an action in damages against the UK under Francovich would be successful. Likewise, it would be difficult for policyholders successfully to pursue their claims against the regulator under the UK legal regime for regulatory liability because they would have to prove misfeasance. On the other hand, the current investigation by the UK Parliamentary Ombudsman into whether individuals were caused injustice through maladministration on the part of UK prudential regulators could result in a recommendation to pay compensation. However, the Ombudsman's remit is limited in terms of both the time period and regulatory authorities covered. In particular, her terms of reference exclude the question of whether the UK regulatory regime at the time met the requirements of EU law. In light of the above, the committee considers it appropriate to recommend strongly to the UK Government to devise an appropriate scheme with a view to provide full compensation for Equitable Life victims both within the UK and abroad for its failure to protect policyholders in accordance with EU legislation. In the absence of viable alternatives, the committee sees it as an obligation of the UK Government to assume responsibility for its failures and provide redress for citizens' grievances. The committee believes that this must happen now, in order to put an end to this affair and secure relief for the many victims. Conclusions PART IV - REMEDIES PART IV - REMEDIES Introduction 1. Overall, about 1.5 million policyholders were affected by the events at Equitable Life. The vast majority of them were UK residents. Nevertheless, a significant number of policyholders from 14 other EU Member States were affected, in particular approximately 8 000 Irish and 4 000 German citizens. Thus, a large number of European citizens have suffered as a result of the crisis at Equitable Life. 2. The written and oral presentations made to the committee See Part IV, Section II points