at its meeting of 22 January 2002. The committee considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 5 November 2002 and 3 December 2002. At the last meeting it adopted the following conclusions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Anna Karamanou, chairperson; Marianne Eriksson and Olga Zrihen Zaari vice-chairpersons; Ria G.H.C. Oomen-Ruijten, draftsperson; María Antonia Avilés Perea, Regina Bastos, Lone Dybkjær, Ilda Figueiredo, Marie-Hélène Gillig, Lissy Gröner, Karin Jöns, Christa Klaß, Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, Astrid Lulling, Maria Martens, Christa Prets, Amalia Sartori, Miet Smet, Patsy Sörensen, Feleknas Uca and Sabine Zissener. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities calls on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following points in its motion for a resolution: – whereas breast implants are needed for both aesthetic breast correction and breast reconstruction but many women can suffer seriously as a result of such surgery because of inadequate information, incorrect insertion of implants or the use of an inappropriate product, – whereas the lack of information often relates to the information given to patients, and the quality and life-span of implants or their suitability for the patients concerned, – welcoming the communication on Community and national measures in relation to breast implants and noting the incorporation of many of the recommendations made by the European Parliament in its resolution on silicone implants, but underlining the fact that matters relating to public health and health care are mainly competences of the Member States, 1. Emphasises that high priority should be given to research into breast implants and their components, and into their clinical evaluation after they are placed on the market, in particular into – the life-span of implants, – better protection of the health of implant recipients, and – full assessment of the health implications and risks; 2. Points out that doctors and nurses have a particular responsibility to provide reliable , objective, complete and scientifically up-to-date information on all the details of their implants (identification number, volume and type) in writing and in language the patient can understand and need to be involved after the operation, to facilitate future care; calls on the Member States authorities to lay down standards for the provision of information; 3. Stresses the need to provide women, including very young women, with full and appropriate information on the consequences and genotoxic risks in the case of pregnancy and breast-feeding; 4. Recommends that the Member States introduce a sound certification and traceability procedure for implants and the products used in order to increase the reliability of implants and hopes that information on this will be made available; 5. Also calls for a sound certification procedure for practitioners, to reduce the damage to health from incorrect operations; 6. Calls for alternative surgical techniques, preserving the breast by using the patient’s own tissue, to be made more widely known and encouraged; 7. Calls on the Member States’ authorities to establish a national register of breast implant patients, providing a clear record of their medical aftercare, experience and best practice; to