This Directive should apply only to supplementary pensions which, according to the rules of the relevant pension scheme or national law, are based on reaching retirement age or fulfilling other conditions. It should apply neither to individual pension arrangements with no employer participation nor to invalidity or survivors" pensions. (9) This Directive should apply to all supplementary pension schemes established in conformity with national legislation and practice that offer supplementary pensions for workers, such as group insurance contracts, pay-as-you-go schemes agreed by one or more branches or sectors, funded schemes or pension promises backed by book reserves, or any collective or other comparable arrangement. (10) This Directive should not apply to supplementary pension schemes that have been closed to the effect that no new members can be accepted, because the introduction of new rules could place an unjustifiable burden on such schemes. (11) This Directive does not aim to harmonise or affect national law on reorganisation measures and winding-up proceedings; for these purposes it is irrelevant whether any such proceedings are opened because of insolvency, or whether they are entered into voluntarily or compulsorily. Similarly, this Directive does not affect national legislation on reorganisation measures under Directive 2001/17/EC Directive 2001/17/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2001 on the reorganisation and winding-up of insurance undertakings (OJ L 110, 20.4.2001, p. 28). . Measures taken under Article 16(2) of Directive 2003/41/EC Directive 2003/41/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 June 2003 on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision (OJ L 235, 23.9.2003, p. 10). do not constitute reorganisation measures for these purposes. (12) This Directive should not affect any arrangements for insolvency protection or compensation arrangements which are not part of a supplementary pension scheme linked to an employment relationship and which aim to protect the pension rights of workers in the event of insolvency of the undertaking or the pension scheme. Similarly, this Directive should not affect national pension reserve funds. (13) Since supplementary retirement provision is becoming increasingly important in all the Member States for securing people's standard of living in old age, the conditions for acquiring, maintaining and transferring vested pension rights should be improved. (14) If the pension scheme or employer bears the investment risk (particularly for defined-benefit schemes), the scheme should refund the contributions of the outgoing worker, regardless of the current investment value of the contributions. If the outgoing worker bears the investment risk (particularly for defined-contribution schemes), the pension scheme should refund the investment value produced from these contributions. The investment value may be higher or lower than the sum of the contributions paid by the outgoing worker. If the investment value is negative, the amount should not be repaid. (15) Outgoing workers should have the right to leave their vested pension rights as dormant rights in the supplementary pension scheme in which their entitlement was established. (16) In conformity with national legislation and practice, steps should be taken to ensure fair treatment of the value of dormant rights. The value of the