available for this research; 4. Considers it vital to make it compulsory to indicate the country of origin of bee honey on labels; 5. Calls on the Commission, in the context of the CAP health check, to introduce measures to encourage the setting up of ecological recovery zones (such as apicultural set-aside areas), especially in major arable crop regions; 4. Calls on the Commission to put in place measures within the CAP Health Check encouraging the creation of ecological compensation zones (such as apicultural set-aside areas) especially in large areas of arable cultivation; calls for such zones to be situated in those parts of fields which are difficult to cultivate, where plants such as phacelia, borage, charlock and wild white clover could be grown, providing rich sources of nectar in bees' gathering areas; 6. Calls on the Commission to promote the necessary measures to limit the risk of insufficient pollination both for beekeepers and for farmers, whose production could increase considerably; 7. Calls on the Commission to ensure that the quality of surface water is monitored and controlled, as bees are highly sensitive to any deterioration in their environment; 8. Calls on the Commission to undertake research into the link which exists between bee mortality and the use of pesticides such as thiamethoxam, imidacloprid, clothianidin and fipronil so that it can take whatever appropriate measures are necessary as regards authorisation of such products; 9. Calls on the Commission to coordinate all information pertaining to this situation that is presently available in each Member State; believes that the Commission should cooperate with recognised organisations with a view to exchanging scientific information they have concerning the impact of pesticides on bees; 10. Considers it vital to introduce a requirement that imported honey be analysed to detect the possible presence of American foulbrood bacteria; 11. Urges the Commission to propose a financial aid mechanism for apiaries which are in difficulties due to bee mortality; 12. Calls for the Commission to incorporate into its veterinary policy research into, and action to tackle, bee diseases; 13. Calls on the Commission to urge all Member States to bring forward immediate support for the beekeeping sector; 14. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and the Commission.