this provision on implementing acts is obsolete. Amendment 55 Proposal for a regulation Article 20 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 20a Assistance 1. The Commission shall draw up and keep up-to-date a comprehensive, user-friendly guide concerning the citizens' initiative. 2. The Commission shall provide a help desk in order to support organisers and to enter into a dialogue from an early stage of the procedure. The Commission shall, upon request, inform the organisers of current or intended legislative proposals about matters raised by the initiative and of other registered citizens' initiatives that wholly or partly concern the same matter. Justification For the sake of the success of this new democratic tool, it is important that citizens are well informed about the procedure to be followed. The Commission should therefore provide a user friendly guide on the initiative and should set up a help desk which would be a natural reference point to organisers if they have questions or if they wish to clarify a certain issue with the EU institution responsible for the registration of the initiative. Especially, the Commission should help the organisers with information on current or intended legislative proposals, in order to avoid wasting energy on a matter that is already took up by the Commission. The information on other registered initiatives concerning the same matter could enhance the European dimension of initiatives. Amendment 56 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Five years after the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this Regulation. Three years after the entry into force of this Regulation, and every three years thereafter, the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and the Council on the implementation of this Regulation , with special emphasis on online collection systems and the application of transparency requirements concerning support and funding for initiatives, together, if appropriate, with a legislative proposal for amendment of this Regulation . Amendment 57 Proposal for a regulation Article 22 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union . This Regulation shall enter into force on the first day of the month following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union . It shall start to apply six months after its entry into force. Amendment 58 Proposal for a regulation Annex II Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Required information for registering a proposed citizens’ initiative Required information for a proposed citizens’ initiative The following information shall be provided in order to register a proposed citizens’ initiative on the Commission's register: The following information shall be provided for the Commission's register: 1. The title of proposed citizens’ initiative in no more than 100 characters; 1. The title of the proposed citizens’ initiative in no more than 100 characters; 2. The subject-matter, in no more than 200 characters; 2. The subject-matter, in