information concerning the SPEs established in the EU. Amendment 62 Proposal for a regulation Article 41 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment The nullity of the SPE shall be governed by the provisions of the applicable national law implementing Article 11(1) of Directive 68/151/EEC, points (a), (b), (c) and (e), except for the reference in point (c) to the objects of the company, of Article 11(2) and Article 12 of that Directive. Until the definition at Community level of a complete set of rules specific to the SPE, the nullity of the SPE shall be governed by the provisions of the applicable national law implementing Article 11(1) of Directive 68/151/EEC, points (a), (b), (c) and (e), except for the reference in point (c) to the objects of the company, of Article 11(2) and Article 12 of that Directive. Justification The definition of a SPE Statute at European level should be accompanied with a complete set of rules specific to the SPE (that means also in the field of nullity, liquidation, insolvency, transformation merger and division, dissolution as well as of accounting and taxation) to be viable and attractive for the small business within the Internal Market. Amendment 63 Proposal for a regulation Article 42 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Member States in which the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply may require SPEs having their registered office in their territory to express their capital in the national currency. An SPE may also express its capital in euro. The national currency/euro conversion rate shall be as on the last day of the month preceding the registration of the SPE. 1. Member States in which the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply may require SPEs having their registered office in their territory to express their capital in the national currency. Such SPEs shall, in addition, express their capital in euro. The national currency/euro conversion rate shall be as on the last day of the month preceding the registration of the SPE. Justification It is more appropriate for SPEs having their registered office in territory of a MS with a national currency different from the Euro to foresee the possibility to express its capital both in the national currency and in Euro. Amendment 64 Proposal for a regulation Article 42 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. An SPE may prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts in euro in Member States where the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply. However such Member States may also require SPEs to prepare and publish their annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts in the national currency in accordance with the applicable national law. 2. An SPE shall prepare and publish its annual and, where applicable, consolidated accounts both in the national currency and in euro in Member States where the third phase of the economic and monetary union (EMU) does not apply. Justification It is more appropriate for SPEs