News Alert : 18-02-2005 Brussels, 18 February 2005 The Week Ahead 21 - 27 February 2005 Strasbourg - plenary session and committees Ukraine. The new president of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, will address MEPs at a formal sitting of the House. He will then give a press conference with European Parliament President Josep Borrell. (Wednesday) Unfair commercial practices. Dishonest salesmen and advertisers can expect to find life more difficult soon. MEPs vote at second reading on a draft directive designed to give consumers better protection. (Debate Wednesday, vote Thursday) European driving licence. One day all European drivers may have a standard "plastic card" driving licence, which will help combat fraud, improve road safety and lift barriers to free movement around the continent. But there is a long road ahead. It starts at this plenary session with a debate and vote at first reading. (Debate Tuesday, vote Wednesday) Criminal justice. MEPs will debate and vote on two reports on justice in the EU: one on quality standards of criminal justice, the other on exchanging information on criminal records. (Debates Monday, votes Tuesday) Legislative programme. Following an initial debate at the last plenary session, MEPs continue their discussion of the Commission's legislative programme with Mr Barroso. (Debate Monday, vote Thursday) United Nations. The Foreign Affairs Committee will discuss reform of the UN with UN Deputy Secretary General Louise Fréchette. This exchange takes place within the framework of the EU-UN working party. Note: The next plenary session takes place in Strasbourg 7-10 March 2005. STRASBOURG PLENARY SESSION 21 - 24 February 2005 Monday 21 February 5-10pm - Opening of plenary session - Order of business - European Commission's legislative programme, with José Manuel BARROSO, Commission President (continuation of debate from 26 January session - vote on resolutions on Thursday) - Commission statement - World social forum, World economic forum - Joint debate: * . Report by Antonio DI PIETRO (ALDE, IT) on exchange of information extracted from criminal records . Report by António COSTA (PES, PT) on quality of criminal justice in the European Union - Report by Jonathan EVANS (EPP-ED, UK) on competition policy - Report by Sophia IN'T VELD (ALDE, NL) on state aid in the form of public service compensation Tuesday 22 February 9am-12 noon, 3-5.30pm, 9pm-12 midnight - Votes on requests for urgent procedure (Rule 134) . Council proposal on transfers of vessels to countries hit by the Tsunami in 2004 . Council proposal on restrictive measures directed against persons and entities constituting a threat to the peace in Ivory Coast - Joint debate: . Report by Robert GOEBBELS (PES, LU) on the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines . Report by Othmar KARAS (EPP-ED, AT) on Public finances in the economic and monetary union in 2004 ***II - Report by Christa PRETS (PES, AT) on European Capital of Culture - 2005 to 2019 - Report by Frédérique RIES (ALDE, BE) on the Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010 ***I - Report by Mathieu GROSCH (EPP-ED, BE) on driving licences ***II - Report by Corien WORTMANN-KOOL (EPP-ED, NL) on pollution from ships ***I -