Vote : 03 & 04.06.2003 Willi ROTHLEY (PES, D) opening the debate, as reporter for the Legal Affairs Committee on the Members' Statute, stated that the discussion over the statute had been " a long difficult journey ." Mr Rothley underlined that the statute was about more than MEPs' remuneration. One of the most difficult questions, he said, had been the issue of taxation. If all Members were to be paid the same amount, then the question remained whether they should pay the same tax. At present, he said, the agreement of the European institutions' legal services was that each individual Member State would decide which tax regime would be applied; EU tax, national tax, or a combination of both. He stated that the present rules on immunity and privileges date back to 1965 and there was a clear need for them to be updated. However, Mr Rothley recommended that the statute should be adopted at the same time as the new draft constitution, and it would be for an Intergovernmental Conference to examine the detailed proposals. Finally, Mr Rothley welcomed the Bureau's proposal on travel expenses, which ties reimbursement to actual costs incurred. Loyola de PALACIO , for the European Commission, stated that this was a complex issue and she awaited further developments. The Commission, she said, would give more detail on its position once the resolution had been adopted in Parliament and Council. Göran FÄRM (PES, S), for the Budgets Committee, recognised that changes would have to be made if the reporter's position were to be adopted, since MEP salaries would then be financed through the Union budget rather than national budgets. A new reserve in the budget for 2004 in any case was foreseen with the possibility of raising the 20% ceiling for Parliament's expenditure of overall administrative expenses. Klaus-Heiner LEHNE (D), for the EPP-ED group, welcomed the proposal for a common salary. He said that €8 500 per month, or 50% of an EU judge's salary was a fair figure. He did recognise though that this would mean a reduction for Italian MEPs. Manuel MEDINA ORTEGA (E) for the PES group welcomed Mr Rothley's draft resolution. He stressed that the Parliament was more than an " intergovernmental organisation " and that a common statute was essential. Diana WALLIS (Yorkshire and the Humber), for the ELDR group, stated that the new statute combined with the new transparent rules on expenses would help to put an end to the endless stories in the UK media on MEPs' travel expenses. She said the new rules should be clear and transparent. This would be one of the last occasions where reform would be possible, she underlined. She recognised Mr Rothley's draft report " as an improvement, although some would say it did not go far enough ." Ole KRARUP (DK), for the EUL/NGL group, on the other hand, said it was farcical that Parliament decided on its own MEPs' salaries and expenses. He said the Parliament lacked legitimacy with only 35% turnout at the last European elections in Sweden and less than