A6‑0207/2008 ), 1. Approves the Council draft as amended; 2. Calls on the Commission to alter its proposal accordingly, pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty; 3. Calls on the Council to notify Parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by Parliament; 4. Calls on the Council to consult Parliament again if it intends to amend the draft substantially or replace it with another text; 5. Calls on the Council and the Commission, following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, to give priority to any future proposal to amend the Decision in accordance with Declaration No 50 concerning Article 10 of the Protocol on transitional provisions to be annexed to the Treaty on European Union, to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community; 6. Is determined to examine any such future proposal by urgent procedure in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 5 and in close cooperation with national parliaments; 7. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council and the Commission. Amendment 1 Proposal for a Council framework decision Recital 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment (5a) The fact that different legal regimes may apply to a single criminal conviction leads to the circulation of unreliable information between Member States and creates legal uncertainty for the convicted person. To avoid this situation, the convicting Member State should be regarded as the owner of the data on criminal convictions handed down on its territory against nationals of other Member States. Accordingly, the Member State of nationality of the convicted person, to which these data will be transmitted, must ensure that they are kept up-to-date by taking into account any alteration or deletion occurring in the convicting Member State. Only data that have been kept up-to-date in this way should be used internally by the Member State of nationality or further transmitted by it to any other State, being another Member State or a third country. Amendment 2 Proposal for a Council framework decision Recital 9 a a (new) Text proposed by the Council Amendment (9a)a Where information is received pursuant to the third subparagraph of Article 7(2), the central authority of the Member State of nationality must ensure that the replies to requests from an individual for information concerning his criminal record contain a general reference to the applicant's criminal record, including the information transmitted by the convicting Member States. Justification The purpose of this amendment is to ensure that a person is unable to hide the fact that he has criminal convictions handed down in a Member State other than the Member State of nationality, especially in cases where he requests information concerning his criminal record for purposes other than criminal proceedings. Amendment 3 Proposal for a Council framework decision Recital 10 Text proposed by the Council Amendment (10) The provisions of this Framework decision establish rules on the protection of personal data transmitted between the Member States as a result of its implementation. Existing