3 October 2000 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION further to the statement by the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Commission pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Enrique Baron Crespo, Margrietus J. van den Berg, Pasqualina Napoletano, Jannis Sakellariou, on behalf of the PSE Group, Bertel Haarder, Cecilia Malmström, Luciana Sbarbati, on behalf of the ELDR Group, Jan Joost Lagendijk, on behalf of the Green Group Francis Wurtz and Luisa Morgantini on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group on the situation in the Middle East European Parliament resolution on the situation in the Middle East The European Parliament, – having regard to its previous resolutions on the situation in the Middle East, – having regard to the statements by the Presidency of the European Union of 30 September and 1 October 2000, A. profoundly dismayed by the events of recent days that have left 56 people dead and several hundred wounded in Jerusalem, in the Gaza Strip and on the West Bank, B. whereas the bloody events to which so many have fallen victim follow from the provocative action of Mr Ariel Sharon, who had decided to visit the Dome of the Rock at a time of extreme tension in the region, C. whereas, following the conclusion of the Camp David negotiations, the peace process is at a dead end; whereas a number of efforts had, however, already been launched by the parties concerned, with the support of the United States and the European Union, in an attempt to revive it; whereas proposals aimed at resuming negotiations have been submitted subsequently, in particular on the question of Jerusalem, 1. Extends its deepest sympathies to the families of the victims; 2. Condemns the provocative action underlying the confrontations in Jerusalem, in the Gaza Strip and on the West Bank, with these all too tragic consequences; 3. Firmly deplores the disproportionate use of force by the Israeli army, a number of dramatic examples of which have been observed; calls for a committee of inquiry to be set up in order to clarify these events and determine responsibilities; 4. Calls for all extremist elements to be isolated and irresponsible actions prevented, so as to forestall an irreversible setback in the peace process, and for measures to be taken by both sides to rule out new provocations and explosions of violence; 5. Welcomes the decision by the parties concerned to proclaim a ceasefire, and hopes that calm can be restored immediately; 6. Appeals to the leaders of Israel and Palestine to ensure that all necessary efforts are undertaken to reach an agreement, pointing out in particular that the two parties have never before come so close to doing so; hopes that the meeting between Mr Arafat and Mr Barak in Paris can be brought to a favourable conclusion by taking into account the new proposals submitted in recent days on Jerusalem; 7. Calls on the Council and the French Presidency to redouble their efforts to persuade the parties concerned to resume negotiations by guaranteeing, through the intermediary of the