of the Republic of Lithuania, for organising the keeping of the party’s accounts and was acting for the benefit and in the interests of the Labour Party as a legal person - is accused by the Lithuanian authorities of having instructed a person to undertake "double" bookkeeping for the Labour Party in Spring 2004. In addition, it is alleged that transactions and business activities which it was compulsory to record in the accounts, as well as the unofficial receipt and disbursement of monies and assets in connection with Labour Party activities, should be recorded in unofficial ledgers. He is also accused of having issued specific instructions that certain commercial and financial operations should be carried out without their being recorded in the party’s accounts, On 9 December 2008, the Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas) agreed to waive the immunity of Mr Uspaskich in respect of the same proceedings. It should be noted in addition that Mr Uspaskich was not Member of the European Parliament at the time when the accused offences were allegedly committed. II. THE LAW (a) Union law Article 8: Members of the European Parliament shall not be subject to any form of inquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties. Article 9: During the sessions of the European Parliament, its Members shall enjoy: a. in the territory of their own State, the immunities accorded to members of their parliament; b. in the territory of other Member States, immunity from any measure or detention and from legal proceedings. Immunity shall likewise apply to Members while they are travelling to and from the place of meeting of the European Parliament. Immunity cannot be claimed when a Member is found in the act of committing an offence and shall not prevent the European Parliament from exercising its right to waive the immunity of one of its Members. The procedure in the European Parliament is governed by Articles 6 and 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The relevant provisions read as follows: ‘ Rule 6 - Waiver of immunity: 1. In the exercise of its powers in respect of privileges and immunities, Parliament shall seek primarily to uphold its integrity as a democratic legislative assembly and to secure the independence of its Members in performance of their duties. 2. Any request addressed to the President by a competent authority of a Member State that the immunity of a Member be waived shall be announced in Parliament and referred to the committee responsible. (...) Rule 7 - Procedure on immunity: 1. The committee responsible shall consider without delay and in the order in which they have been submitted requests for the waiver of immunity or requests for the defence of immunity and privileges. 2. The committee shall make a proposal for a reasoned decision which recommends the adoption or rejection of the request for the waiver of immunity or for the defence of immunity and privileges. 3. The committee may ask the authority concerned to provide any information or explanation which the committee