Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (9 December 2009) The Commission is not informed of the situation described by the Honourable Member regarding the increase in the number of marine mammals being washed ashore in the Aegean Sea. In any event, the Commission is fully convinced of the need to consider the status of conservation of marine mammals as the result of numerous factors, some of them mentioned in the question. The Ecosystem Approach enshrined in the Marine Strategy Framework Directive Directive 2008/56/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 2008 establishing a framework for community action in the field of marine environmental policy, OJ L 164, 25.6.2008. allows to take into account the individual impact of different human activities while also provide an overall and detailed picture of their cumulative effect on the marine ecosystems as a whole or on their constitutive elements. Within the framework laid down by the Marine Directive, Member States shall monitor the status of the marine environment and take action to achieve good environmental status. Each Member State will therefore have to ensure that the status of the marine environment in the areas under its jurisdiction is established and that the pressures leading to such status are properly identified, as a step prior to the adoption of proper management measures. As regards in particular the conservation of cetaceans, other marine mammals and marine turtles under the Habitats Directive Council Directive 92/43/EEC of 21 May 1992 on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora, OJ L 206, 22.7.1992. , Greece has to implement measures laid down in Article 12 for the strict protection of those species listed in Annex IV of the directive. In its report on the implementation of the directive for period 2001‑06, Greece has stated that the port police cooperates closely with the competent authorities for enforcing relevant Community legislation, that harmful fishing instruments like midwater otter trawls and pelagic pair trawls are not allowed and that drift nets are prohibited since 1993, while bottom set gillnets are complying with the EC Regulation 1967/2006 Council Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006 of 21 December 2006 concerning management measures for the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in the Mediterranean Sea, amending Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1626/94, OJ L 409, 30.12.2006. . Specific conservation actions for marine species have been supported by the LIFE programme, including the preparation and implementation of a national management plan for the monk seal (Monachus monachus). In any event the Commission recalls that at present most of the responsibility to tackle the problems provoked by human activities impacting over the marine environment, including imposing the necessary penalties according to national law, lies with Member States. As regards the compliance of Greece with respect to the obligations stemming from International agreements as those mentioned by the Honourable Member, the Commission, although aware and mostly supportive of different initiatives to promote the conservation of marine mammals, is not expected to judge over the compliance of EU Member States with