4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (4a) The reliability of statistics made available by the Commission (Eurostat) at Union level directly depends on the reliability of statistical data collected by Member States at national level. Amendment 6 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 4 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (4b) Ensuring institutional independence of all national statutory statistical bodies is crucial to avoid any undue pressure on them from their respective governments. Amendment 7 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5) In this connection, the Commission (Eurostat) should have additional rights of access to a widened scope of information for the needs of data quality assessment. (5) In this connection, the Commission (Eurostat) should have additional rights of access to a widened scope of information for the needs of data quality assessment. It is essential that the data received from the Member States is shared in due time with the European Central Bank's Directorate General for Statistics. Justification The European Central Bank is the leading insitution responsible for monetary stability, not just in the eurozone, but in the EU as a whole. Its Directorate General Statistics has the competency to request national data from the Member States in the area of monetary, banking and financial markets statistics. Given this shared responsibility for European data collection, further falsification of statistics can only be prevented if the supervisory power of the ECB is strenghtened as well. Amendment 8 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 5 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (5a) The comparability of economic data requires a uniform methodology. The Commission should therefore promote the harmonisation of statistical data collection. Amendment 9 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 6 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6) In carrying out monitoring visits to a Member State whose statistical information is under scrutiny the Commission (Eurostat) should be entitled to have access to the accounts of government entities at central, state, local and social security levels, including the provision of underlying detailed accounting information, relevant statistical surveys and questionnaires and further related information, respecting the legislation on data protection as well as statistical confidentiality. (6) In carrying out monitoring visits to a Member State whose statistical information is under scrutiny the Commission (Eurostat) should be entitled to have access to the accounts of government entities at central, state, local and social security levels, including the provision of underlying detailed accounting information, relevant statistical surveys and questionnaires and further related information, including off-balance sheet transactions, respecting the legislation on data protection as well as statistical confidentiality. Amendment 10 Proposal for a regulation – amending act Recital 6 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (6a) To enable the Commission ( Eurostat ) to fulfil its extended supervisory duties responsibly , an increase in qualified staff in the relevant departments is needed . Th e additional outlay for staff and costs should be covered by budget and staff transfers within the Commission.