training qualifications between the Member States of the European Community (OJ L 199, 31.7.1985, p. 56). , i.e. the level reached during compulsory education, supplemented by professional training. 1. Advanced training in rational driving based on safety regulations All licences 1.1. objective: to know the characteristics of the transmission system in order to make the best possible use of it curves relating to torque, power, and specific consumption of an engine, area of optimum use of revolution counter, gearbox-ratio cover diagrams; 1.2. objective: to know the technical characteristics and operation of the safety controls in order to control the vehicle, minimise wear and tear and prevent disfunctioning specific features of hydraulic vacuum servobrake circuit, limits to the use of brakes and retarder, combined use of brakes and retarder, making better use of speed and gear ratio, making use of vehicle inertia, using ways of slowing down and braking on downhill stretches, action in the event of failure; 1.3. objective: ability to optimise fuel consumption optimisation of fuel consumption by applying know-how as regards points 1.1 and 1.2; Licence C, C+E, C1, C1+E 1.4. objective: ability to load the vehicle with due regard for safety rules and proper vehicle use forces affecting vehicles in motion, use of gearbox-ratios according to vehicle load and road profile, calculation of payload of vehicle or assembly, calculation of total volume, load distribution, consequences of overloading the axle, vehicle stability and centre of gravity, types of packaging and pallets; main categories of goods needing securing, clamping and securing techniques, use of securing straps, checking of securing devices, use of handling equipment, placing and removal of tarpaulins; Licence D, D+E, D1, D1+E 1.5. objective: ability to ensure passenger comfort and safety adjusting longitudinal and sideways movements, road sharing, position on the road, smooth breaking, overhang operation, using specific infrastructures (public areas, dedicated lanes), managing conflicts between safe driving and other roles as a driver, interacting with passengers, peculiarities of certain groups of passengers (disabled persons, children); 1.6. objective: ability to load the vehicle with due regard for safety rules and proper vehicle use forces affecting vehicles in motion, use of gearbox-ratios according to vehicle load and road profile, calculation of payload of vehicle or assembly, load distribution, consequences of overloading the axle, vehicle stability and centre of gravity; 2. Application of regulations All licences 2.1. objective: to know the social environment of road transport and the rules governing it maximum working periods specific to the transport industry; principles, application and consequences of Regulations (EEC) Nos 3820/85 and 3821/85; penalties for failure to use, improper use of and tampering with the tachograph; knowledge of the social environment of road transport: rights and duties of drivers as regards initial qualification and periodic training; Licence C, C+E, C1, C1+E 2.2. objective: to know the regulations governing the carriage of goods transport operating licences, obligations under standard contracts for the carriage of goods, drafting of documents which form the transport contract, international transport permits, obligations under the Convention on the Contract for the International Carriage of Goods by Road, drafting of the international