aim of this programme is to make the public aware of these issues and of every individual’s rights in this area, it is important to draw attention in the recitals to the urgent need for the Member States to complete the transposition process. Amendment 20 Article 2, point (b) (b) Representation - Stimulating a debate on ways to increase the participation of under-represented groups in society - The European Year will encourage reflection and discussion on the need to promote their greater participation in society in all sectors and at all levels. (b) Representation - Stimulating a debate on ways to increase the participation of groups in society which are victims of discrimination and balanced participation of men and women - the European Year will encourage reflection and discussion on the need to promote their greater participation in society , and their involvement in activities designed to combat discrimination, in all sectors and at all levels. Justification Persons who are victims of discrimination must be involved in all measures designed to combat the discrimination which they suffer. Amendment 21 Article 2, point (c) (c) Recognition – Celebrating and accommodating diversity – The European Year will highlight the positive contribution that people, irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, capacities, age and sexual orientation can make to society as a whole, in particular by accentuating the benefits of diversity. (c) Recognition – Facilitating and celebrating diversity and equality – The European Year will highlight the positive contribution that people, irrespective of their sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or beliefs, capacities, age and sexual orientation can make to society as a whole, in particular by accentuating the benefits of diversity. Justification Diversity is positive if all persons are treated equally. Amendment 22 Article 2, point (d) (d) Respect and tolerance – Promoting a more cohesive society –The European Year will raise awareness about the importance of, promoting good relations between all in society, and in particular among young people, and promoting and disseminating the values underlying the fight against discrimination. (d) Respect – Promoting a more cohesive society –The European Year will raise awareness about the importance of eliminating stereotypes, prejudice and violence; of promoting good relations between all in society, and in particular among young people, and promoting and disseminating the values underlying the fight against discrimination. Justification Respect for diversity presupposes, among other things, combating preconceived ideas. Amendment 23 Article 3, paragraph 1, introductory part 1. The actions designed to meet the objectives set out in Article 2 shall entail the development of or the provision of support for: 1. The actions designed to meet the objectives set out in Article 2 may entail the development of or the provision of support for in particular : Justification There must be a degree of flexibility in implementing the decision. Amendment 24 Article 3, paragraph 1, point (b) (b) information and promotional campaigns; (b) information , promotional and educational campaigns; Justification The European Year should have an educational dimension. Amendment 25 Article 3, paragraph 1, point (c) (c) cooperation