recourse to Article 95 of the Treaty as a legal basis are fulfilled, the Community ║ shall rely on this legal basis even when public health protection is a decisive factor in the choices made; in this respect Article 95(3) of the Treaty explicitly requires that ▌a high level of protection of human health should be guaranteed taking account in particular of any new development based on scientific facts. (3) On 9 June 2005 the European Parliament adopted, by 554 votes to 12, a resolution on patient mobility and healthcare developments in the European Union OJ C 124 E, 25.5.2006, p. 543. , in which it called for legal certainty and clarity on rights and procedures for patients, health professionals and Member States. ( 4 ) This Directive respects the fundamental rights and observes the general principles of law as recognised in particular by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union OJ C 364, 18.12.2000, p. 1. ("the Charter"). The right of access to healthcare and the right to benefit from medical treatment under conditions established by national law and practices are recognised by Article 35 of the Charter ║. Specifically, this Directive has to be implemented and applied with due respect for the rights to private and family life, protection of personal data, equality before the law and the principle of non-discrimination and the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial, in accordance with the general principles of law, as enshrined in Articles 7, 8, 20, 21, 47 of the Charter. ( 5 ) The health systems of the Community are a central component of Europe's high levels of social protection, and contribute to social cohesion and social justice as well as to sustainable development. They are also part of the wider framework of services of general interest. (6) This Directive respects and does not prejudice the freedom of each Member State to decide what type of healthcare it considers appropriate. No provision of this Directive should be interpreted in such a way as to undermine the fundamental ethical choices of Member States. ( 7 ) As confirmed by the Court of Justice on several occasions, while recognising their specific nature, all types of medical care fall within the scope of the Treaty. ( 8 ) Some issues related to cross-border healthcare, in particular reimbursement of healthcare provided in a Member State other than that in which the recipient of the care is resident, have been already addressed by the Court of Justice. ▌ It is important to address these issues in a specific Community legal instrument in order to achieve a more general and effective application of principles developed by the Court of Justice on a case by case basis. ( 9 ) In its Conclusions of 1-2 June 2006 on Common values and principles in European Union health systems OJ C 146, 22.6.2006, p. 1. ("Council Conclusions of 1-2 June 2006") , the Council ║ adopted a statement on "Common values and principles" ║ and recognised the particular value of an initiative on cross-border