News Alert : 27-02-2004 Brussels, 27 February 2004 The Week Ahead 1-7 March 2004 From 1 to 3 March, EP President Pat Cox will be in Turkey, where he has meetings with the president, the prime minister, the speaker of parliament and others. He will also address the Grand National Assembly. On his return to Brussels, Mr Cox has a meeting on Thursday 4 March with Czech President Václav Klaus. A seminar on the future of the Middle East is being held at Parliament on Tuesday morning, 2 March, by the EP Delegation for Relations with Israel. The coming week will be mainly used by the political groups to prepare for the Strasbourg plenary session of 8-11 March. The plenary agenda will include votes on the latest progress reports on the enlargement countries, financial services and food and animal feed inspections. There will also be a debate on the European Council of March 25-26, focusing on constitutional matters and the IGC. On 8 March, which is International Women's Day, MEPs will debate reports on work and family life and on the Daphne II programme. Any changes to the plenary agenda will be announced at the pre-session press briefing at 11am on Friday 5 March. THE PRESIDENT'S DIARY Visit to Turkey : 1 to 3 March Monday 1 March - Ankara 5pm Meeting with Bülent Arinç, Speaker of the Grand National Assembly - Private Office of the Speaker 5.45pm Joint press conference Tuesday 2 March - Ankara 10.15am Meeting with Abdullah Gül, Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister - Ministry of Foreign Affairs 2.30pm Meeting with Ahmet Necdet Sezer, President of Turkey - Presidential Palace 3.45pm Address by Pat Cox to the Grand National Assembly 7.30pm Meeting with Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister - Prime Minister's Office Wednesday 3 March - Istanbul 3.30pm Address to conference on The Future of the European Union and Turkey organised by the Economic Development Foundation - Ritz-Carlton Hotel Thursday 4 March - Brussels 1pm Meeting with Václav Klaus, President of the Czech Republic PRESS CONFERENCES Press Room: PHS 0A50 Tuesday 2 March 2pm Ewa HEDKVIST PETERSEN (PES, S) and Mark WATTS (PES, UK) on road safety in an enlarged Europe Wednesday 3 March 10.30am Alain LAMASSOURE (EPP-ED, F): presentation of his book "Histoire secrète de la Convention" Thursday 4 March 10am Miquel MAYOL i RAYNAL (Greens/EFA, E) on new road plans in Majorca 2.30pm Caroline LUCAS (Greens/EFA, UK) and Alexander de ROO (Greens/EFA, NL) on reform of the world trade system Friday 5 March 11am Pre-session press briefing OTHER EVENTS Delegation for Relations with Israel Seminar on the future of the Middle East Tuesday 2 March, 9.30am - 1pm Room PHS 1A02, European Parliament, Brussels The aim of this seminar is to bring together politicians and young civil society representatives to discuss the Middle East conflict. It is organised with support from the European Jewish Congress and Israel at Heart, a programme for bringing Israeli students to university campuses in Europe and USA. Tuesday 2 March First part: 9.30-10.30am Introduction by Willi GÖRLACH (PES, D), chair of