the scientific , technological and financial monitoring of the indirect action, for the updating of its objectives, for changes in consortium membership and for the payment of the Community financial contribution, as well as , if applicable, conditions for the eligibility of any necessary expenditure and rules for dissemination and use. The contract, which shall be concluded between the Commission and all participants in an indirect action, shall enter into force on signature by the Commission and the coordinator. The other participants identified in the contract shall accede to it in accordance with its terms and shall enjoy the rights and assume the obligations of participants. Any participant joining an ongoing indirect action shall accede to the contract and enjoy the rights and assume the obligations of participants with regard to the Community. 3. In order to ensure the protection of the financial interests of the Community, appropriate penalties shall be included in the contracts , as defined inter alia in Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 OJ L 312, 23.12.1995, p. 1. . 4. The conclusion of a contract shall not affect the right of the Commission to adopt a recovery decision, enforceable in accordance with Article 256 of the Treaty, to obtain reimbursement of an amount due from a participant. Before adopting a decision of this kind, the Commission shall ask for the participant's comments to be submitted before a specified date. 5. Participants in an indirect action shall conclude a consortium agreement, unless otherwise specified in the call for proposals. The Commission shall publish non-binding guidelines on points that may be addressed by the consortium agreement, such as: - the internal organisation of the consortium; - intellectual property rights arrangements; - settlement of internal disputes, pertaining to the consortium agreement. To this end the Commission shall confer with interested parties from the Member States and the Associated States. Article 13 Execution of indirect actions 1. The consortium shall implement the indirect action and shall take all necessary and reasonable measures to that end . The Community financial contribution shall be paid to the coordinator. The coordinator shall administer the Community financial contribution regarding its allocation between participants and activities in accordance with the contract and with decisions taken by the consortium according to the internal procedures established in the consortium agreement . Participants shall inform the Commission of any event, including the modification of the consortium agreement, which might affect the implementation of the indirect action and the rights of the Community. 2. Technical implementation of the indirect action shall be the collective responsibility of the participants. Each participant shall also be liable for the use of the Community financial contribution in proportion to his share of the project up to a maximum of the total payments he has received. Should a participant breach the contract and should the consortium not make good this breach, the Commission may, as a last resort and if all other approaches have been explored, hold the participants liable under the following conditions: (a) Independently of the appropriate action it