with other donors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and United Nations bodies. (6) Support programmes for uprooted people and demobilised former soldiers are an integral part of an overall rehabilitation strategy for Latin American and Asian developing countries. For the programmes to be effective, aid must be coordinated at Community level and with other donors, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and United Nations bodies , particularly the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) . The Commission should take responsibility both for monitoring and ensuring the visibility of funds channelled through NGOs and the United Nations. The Commission is moreover politically responsible for the ways in which its funds are spent by NGOs and the United Nations. Amendment 6 Recital 7 (7) For the countries in question, this type of aid is a necessary pre-condition for development and therefore contributes significantly to the objectives of the Community's cooperation policy. Deleted Amendment 7 Recital 7 a (new) (7a) The effectiveness and consistency of Community, national and international prevention and intervention mechanisms should be ensured, both in order to prevent conflicts and to encourage all peaceful solutions to political conflicts and wars which result in population displacement. Amendment 8 Recital 9 (9) Ideally, action to help uprooted people should form part of an approach that aims to move on from so-called subsistence to a stage in which they become self-sufficient or less dependent. Aid to help them settle or resettle themselves should take the form of measures to develop self-sufficiency through agricultural production, livestock rearing, fish farming, setting up credit facilities, basic education and vocational training, and at ensuring decent levels of health and hygiene. (9) Ideally, action to help uprooted people should form part of an approach that aims to move on from so-called subsistence to a stage in which they become self-sufficient or less dependent. Amendment 9 Recital 9 a (new) (9a) Effective, flexible and expeditious procedures need to be guaranteed for aid operations in this sphere; the Community should also ensure maximum transparency in the granting of aid, and strict controls on the use of appropriations. Amendment 10 Recital 10 (10) Until 31 December 2000, the legal basis for Community action in this field is Council Regulation (EC) No 443/97 of 3 March 1997 on operations to aid uprooted people in Asian and Latin American developing countries, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1880/2000. (10) Until 31 December 2000, the legal basis for Community action in this field was Council Regulation (EC) No 443/97 of 3 March 1997 on operations to aid uprooted people in Asian and Latin American developing countries, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1880/2000. The experience acquired during its application should be reflected in this Regulation. Amendment 11 Recital 11 (11) This Regulation should enable the Community to continue its operations in these fields for an indefinite period. (11) This Regulation lays down, for its entire duration, a financial framework constituting the prime reference, within the meaning of point 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and