requirements referred to in Article 31 (3). Article 38 Time period for examination 1. The Member State examining the application shall decide within twelve months of receiving it whether the requirements for authorisation are met. Where the Member State needs additional information, it shall set a time period for the applicant to supply it. In that case, the twelve-month period shall be extended by the additional time period granted by the Member State , which may not exceed four months . 2. The time-limits provided for in paragraph 1 shall be suspended while applying the procedure set out in Article 39. 3. For an application for authorisation of a plant protection product containing an active substance not yet approved, Member States shall start the evaluation as soon as it has received the draft assessment report referred to in Article 13 (1). In such case the Member State shall decide on the application at the latest within six months of the active substance being approved. Article 39 Assessment of equivalence under Article 30 (1)(b) 1. Where it is necessary to establish whether a plant protection product complies with Article 30 (1)(b), this shall be assessed by the Member State which acted as rapporteur for the active substance, safener or synergist as referred to in Article 8 (1).║. The applicant shall submit all necessary data to that Member State. 2. After giving the applicant the opportunity to submit his comments, which the applicant shall also communicate to the Member State examining the application, the rapporteur Member State shall adopt a conclusion which it shall communicate to the Commission, the other Member States and the applicant. 3. Where the Member State examining the application for authorisation does not agree with the conclusion of the rapporteur Member State, it shall inform the applicant, the other Member States and the Commission stating its reasons. The Member State examining the application for authorisation and the rapporteur Member State shall try to reach agreement on whether Article 30 (1)(b) is complied with. They shall provide the applicant with an opportunity to submit his comments. 4. Where the Member States concerned do not reach agreement within 180 days the Member State examining the application for authorisation shall submit the matter to the Commission. A decision on whether the conditions referred to in Article 30 (1)(b) are complied with shall be adopted in accordance with the regulatory procedure referred to in Article 83(3). The 180-day period begins on the date on which the Member State examining the application for authorisation informed the rapporteur Member State that it does not agree with the conclusion of the latter, in accordance with paragraph 3. Before such a decision is adopted, the Commission may ask the Authority for an opinion, or for scientific or technical assistance which shall be provided within three months of the request. 5. Detailed rules for the implementation of paragraphs 1 to 4 may be established in accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny referred to in Article 83(4), after consultation of the Authority. Article 40 Reporting and exchange of information