Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (23 December 2005) The Commission is aware that the Maltese Government has mentioned in its report on derogation under Article 9 of the Birds Directive Council Directive 79/409/EEC of 2 April 1979 on the conservation of wild birds, OJ L 103, 25.4.1979. that, during EU accession negotiations, an agreement was reached on the application by Malta of a derogation for the taking of two migratory bird species in spring. This is referring to the European Union Common Position for Malta (CONF‑M 110/02) on Chapter 22: Environment dated 27 September 2002, which states that: ‘As regards implementation of Article 7 on regulation of hunting and hunting periods, the EU notes that Malta indicates that spring is the main hunting period, and that in order to comply with Article 7 by accession, the protection of birds and wild rabbit Regulations will be amended by third quarter of 2003. The EU takes note of Malta’s statement that it will limit the taking in spring to only two species (Streptopelia turtur and Coturnix coturnix), as an application of the derogation under Article 9 of the Directive. In this context, the EU points out that, according to the Directive, certain species may be hunted because of their high population level, geographical distribution and reproductive rate in the Community as a whole to the extent that the limits set by the Directive are respected and the population of these species is maintained at satisfactory level.’ This does not contradict what the Commission’s joined answer of 31 August 2005 to the Honourable Member's (and others) written questions E‑2396/05 to E‑2406/05 , i.e. that the possible hunting in spring in Malta for turtle-doves and quails has not been negotiated between the government and EU. In this case, the Maltese Government has only exercised its option to apply a derogation under Article 9 of the Birds Directive — on the basis that turtle-doves and quails are only present in numbers during the spring migration, and therefore provides the only opportunity for them to be hunted. Therefore, it is for the Maltese Government to demonstrate that spring hunting season is very limited and strict quotas on numbers of birds hunted are imposed and enforced. The Commission will then ensure that the consequences of these derogations comply with the conditions set out under Article 9 of the Birds Directive. The European Union Common Position for Malta (CONF‑M 110/02) is a political document which details issues of concern raised in the context of negotiations. Annex XI of the Act of Accession for Malta OJ L 236, 23.9.2003 . sets out the legal position, with the only transition period granted under the Birds Directive relating to the trapping by clap-nets of seven species of finch, in accordance with clear conditions, until 31 December 2008.