investment firms, offering securities execution services and that fair competition be permitted to thrive in order to ensure further efficiency. The twin objectives of regulation should be to ensure a high quality of execution of investor transactions and to uphold the integrity and overall efficiency of the financial system. A coherent and risk-sensitive framework for regulating the main types of order-execution arrangement currently active in the European financial marketplace should therefore be provided for so as to preserve the efficient and orderly functioning of financial markets. Where trading systems operated by investment firms potentially raise market integrity concerns similar to those raised by regulated markets, they should be regulated as MTFs and subject to similar regulatory principles tailored to their specific circumstances. (6) Definitions of regulated market and MTF should be introduced and closely aligned with each other to reflect the extent to which they represent a similar organised trading functionality. The definitions should exclude bilateral systems where the investment firm enters into every trade on own account and not as a riskless counterparty interposed between the buyer and seller. The term "buying and selling interests" is to be understood in a broad sense and includes orders, quotes and indications of interest. The requirement that the interests be "brought together … in the system by means of non-discretionary rules set by the system operator" means that they are brought together under the system's rules or by means of the system's protocols or internal operating procedures (including procedures embodied in computer software). The expression "non-discretionary rules" means that these rules leave the investment firm operating an MTF with no discretion as to how interests may interact. The definitions require that interests be brought together in such a way as to result in a contract, so that execution takes place under the system's rules or by means of the system's protocols or internal operating procedures. (7) The purpose of this Directive is to cover undertakings the regular business of which is to provide third parties with investment services on a professional basis. Its scope should not therefore cover any person or undertaking with a different professional activity or any person who uses the services of an investment firm to enter into transactions in financial instruments on own account (whether the investment firm enters into the transaction as principal or agent or receives and transmits the order to a third party for execution). (8) It is important to recognise that the execution, clearing and settlement of securities trades benefit from economies of scale. To avoid the emergence of monopolistic market structures, it is therefore necessary for regulation to be applied in a proportionate, risk-based manner, which encourages innovation, new market entrants and competition. Regulation should not serve as an unnecessary barrier to entry. (9) Insurance undertakings the activities of which are subject to appropriate monitoring by the competent prudential-supervision authorities and which are subject of Council Directive 64/225/EEC of 25 February 1964 on the abolition of restrictions on freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services in respect of reinsurance and retrocession OJ 56, 4.4.1964,