adopt transparency rules requiring corporations to report information about their investment activity and their environmental, social and employment impact in each country where they do business, based on the well-developed concept of "disclosure"; 59. Calls for international accounting standards to be expanded along the lines of the Global Reporting Initiative which promotes "triple bottom line" accounting and corporate annual reports (i.e., economic, social and environmental accounting); 60. Encourages each TNC to commit as a minimum investment at least 0.7% of their gross turnover or up to 5% of their net profit (whichever is smaller) into new investments as offset projects each year in that country; stresses that such offset investments should have a high component of social, educational or environmental capacity-building and should be undertaken jointly or severally with local SMEs and business groups; 61. Welcomes the United Nations Global Compact initiative and calls for a European Forum of Enterprises for Sustainable Development to be instituted holding two meetings per year rotating in locations corresponding to the Presidency in the Council of the European Union; 62. Calls for this European Forum of Enterprises for Sustainable Development to be attended by the directors of ethical investment committees of TNCs together with Members of the European Parliament and members of the select committees of the national parliaments involved with trade, development and cooperation policies and all those directly affected by the activities of TNCs; 63. Recognises that this Forum will constitute the cornerstone of a new and additional approach to development and cooperation augmenting and supporting existing mechanisms and institutions, and that there remains a crucial need for a greater volume of aid which must be better managed; 64. Calls for the new delivery mechanism to be through an open tendering process wholly transparent to the international community, civil societies and host countries and open to NGOs, registered and accredited consultants and even in-house divisions of the TNCs themselves; recognises that the Commission will have a role to play in auditing, monitoring and reporting back; 65. Recognises that the delivery of such new funds for new development enterprise promotion projects should be outside the existing arrangements for development and cooperation which have clearly demonstrated their weaknesses. o o o 66. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States, the United Nations, the World Trade Organisation, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.