States and Japan. At EU political level, the Commission continue to raise the issue with my Chinese counterpart, Minister Chen Deming. At operational level, the EU will also continue to use all relevant bilateral contacts with China to strive to secure adequate supply of rare earths. The newly established EU‑China working group on raw materials with the Chinese Ministry of Industry and Information Technology is bound to address this question, among others. The Commission will also continue strengthening its cooperation with the main trade partners concerned and, when relevant, exchange information and collect evidence. It will also continue to pursue its outreach in international fora such as the OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. on more structural issues of sustainable supply of raw materials, including rare earths. Finally, the Commission is also analysing the scope and feasibility of further legal action under the WTO Dispute Settlement Understanding. The launching of a WTO case against China on rare earths deserves to be carefully weighed against the background of the current WTO proceedings on other raw materials (WT/DS395) and on China’s policy developments on raw materials, including rare earth elements. In relation to this, and to the Honourable Member's introduction to this question, EU industry is invited to provide the Directorate General for Trade of the Commission with any relevant facts, evidence, knowledge or experience it might possess on impediments to trade with raw materials, including rare earth elements. 4. It is not in the current intentions of the Commission to develop a special ‘task force’ in the framework of the Raw Materials Initiative. As far as critical raw materials are concerned, DG Enterprise has set up an experts group in 2010, composed of experts from Member States and industry, with the aim to identify a list of critical metals for the EU based on specific criteria. The report is now finalised and is available on http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/policies/raw-materials/critical/index_en.htm.