with fusion, the most significant being that raw materials for fusion reactions might fall into the wrong hands, giving rise to a danger of proliferation of nuclear weapons. Allocating funding to research into fission power is contrary to public opinion, which is against nuclear power. There are major risks involved in all stages of the nuclear fuel cycle. Spent nuclear fuel will remain hazardous for hundreds of thousands of years. It is impossible to guarantee its safe storage for periods which are unimaginably long in relation to the human life-span. Advocates have started to market nuclear power as a solution to climate change. Even known uranium reserves are not sufficient for that. If the present use of fossil fuels were to be replaced with fission power, there would be enough uranium for 3 or 4 years. Used at its present rate, the uranium would last for 50 years. Combating climate change by making greater use of fission power is not, therefore, a realistic option. In Finland, permission was sought for five nuclear power plants on the basis that nuclear power was needed in order to achieve the emission reductions required by the Kyoto Protocol. After the Finnish Parliament had granted permission for them, however, the same people began to bitterly criticise the Kyoto Protocol, claiming that it was unduly harsh and economically damaging to Finland. The proposed emphasis of the funding of energy research also contradicts all the decisions that have been taken which stress the vital role of new energy technology relating to energy efficiency and renewable energy, not only in the interests of climate protection but also from the point of view of developing energy technology which is competitive on world markets. The draftsman proposes that only those elements in the Seventh Euratom Framework Programme of Research should receive funding which are clearly unavoidable. These elements are radiation protection, research into radioactive waste and safety techniques. At the same time the draftsman proposes that the total research funding should be reduced from € 3092 m to € 310 m. AMENDMENTS The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety calls on the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Text proposed by the Commission Not yet published in the Official Journal. Amendments by Parliament Amendment 1 Recital 5 (5) The Commission Green Paper ‘Towards a European strategy for energy supply’ highlights the contribution of nuclear power in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and in reducing Europe’s dependence on imported energy. (5) The Commission Green Paper ‘Towards a European strategy for energy supply’ highlights the limited contribution of nuclear power in reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and in reducing Europe’s dependence on imported energy. Justification In 2003, nuclear power provided only less than 15% of the commercial primary energy in the EU25 and has therefore a limited contribution to climate change. Amendment 2 Recital 6 (6) With reference to the Council Decision of 26 November 2004 amending the directives of negotiations on ITER , the realisation of ITER in