a whole range of communications and reports dealing with greater support for small businesses in a growing European Union. Included among these are the report on the implementation of the European Charter for Small Enterprises, the report on implementation of the European Charter for Small Enterprises in the Accession Countries, the activities of the European Union for small and medium-sized enterprises published under the title of 'Creating an entrepreneurial Europe' and the working paper on the SME envoy: 'An active interface between the Commission and the SME community'. 2 October 2003 OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON BUDGETS for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on entrepreneurship in Europe - Green Paper ( COM(2003) 27 - 2003/2161(INI)) Draftsman: Catherine Guy-Quint PROCEDURE The Committee on Budgets appointed Catherine Guy-Quint draftsman at its meeting of 20 March 2003. It considered the draft opinion at its meeting of 2 October 2003. At that meeting it adopted the following suggestions unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Terence Wynn (chairman), Franz Turchi (vice-chairman), Catherine Guy-Quint (draftsman), Joan Colom i Naval, Den Dover, Bárbara Dührkop Dührkop, María Esther Herranz García, Jan Mulder, Juan Andrés Naranjo Escobar, Joaquim Piscarreta, Paul Rübig, Per Stenmarck and Ralf Walter. CONCLUSIONS The Committee on Budgets calls on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Considers that the Commission Green Paper on entrepreneurship in Europe forms part of the Lisbon Process and, as such, suggests avenues to explore and sketches out possible lines of action that can help the Union to achieve its ambition of becoming the world's most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010; 2. Stresses that the Lisbon objectives must remain the leading priority of the Union's economic and social policies, particularly in the run-up to enlargement, and that it is therefore essential for the Member States to ensure that the EU budget contains the resources required to achieve these objectives; 3. Draws attention nonetheless to the importance which Parliament attaches to very small businesses and the craft trades and regrets that such undertakings are hardly mentioned in the Green Paper, which, furthermore, basically places the emphasis on start-ups or high-growth undertakings to the detriment of traditional sectors or family undertakings; 4. Stresses that very small businesses and the craft trades, which account for more than 90% of European undertakings, are a source of both jobs and innovation and therefore make an active contribution to meeting the Lisbon objectives; considers that entrepreneurs of this kind deserve special attention from the Commission, given their importance to the stability of the socio-economic fabric and employment and the considerable risks they are obliged to take to set up and remain in business; 5. Regrets that the Green Paper only partly incorporates the advances made in the European Charter for Small Enterprises; Short-term considerations 6. Stresses that the budget headings relating to the Lisbon Process must be properly implemented if the process is to be implemented on schedule; 7. Notes that implementation of these budget