Central Bank 1. Any Member may put questions for written answer to the European Central Bank. 2. Such questions shall be submitted in writing to the chairman of the committee responsible, who shall forward them to the European Central Bank. 3. The questions shall be published with their answers in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. If a question has not received a reply by the required deadline, it shall be included at the request of its author on the agenda for the next meeting of the committee responsible with the President of the European Central Bank. CHAPTER 4 REPORTS OF OTHER INSTITUTIONS Rule 112 Annual reports and other reports of other institutions 1. Annual reports and other reports of other institutions, in respect of which the Treaties provide for consultation of the European Parliament or where other legal provisions require an opinion by the European Parliament, shall be dealt with by means of a report submitted to the plenary. 2. Annual reports and other reports of other institutions not falling within the scope of paragraph 1 shall be referred to the appropriate committee which may propose drawing up a report pursuant to Rule 45. CHAPTER 5 RESOLUTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS Rule 113 Motions for resolutions 1. Any Member may table a motion for a resolution on a matter falling within the sphere of activities of the European Union. The motion may not comprise more than 200 words. 2. The committee responsible shall decide what procedure is to be adopted. It may combine the motion for a resolution with other motions for resolutions or reports. It may adopt an opinion, which may take the form of a letter. It may decide to draw up a report pursuant to Rule 45. 3. The authors of a motion for a resolution shall be informed of the decisions of the committee and the Conference of Presidents. 4. The report shall contain the text of the motion for a resolution. 5. Opinions in the form of a letter addressed to other institutions of the European Union shall be forwarded by the President. 6. The author or authors of a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to Rule 103(2), 108(5) or 115(2) shall be entitled to withdraw it before the final vote. 7. A motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to paragraph 1 may be withdrawn by its author, authors or first signatory before the committee responsible has decided, pursuant to paragraph 2, to draw up a report on it. Once the motion has been thus taken over by the committee, only the committee shall be empowered to withdraw it up until the opening of the final vote. 8. A motion for a resolution withdrawn may be taken over and retabled immediately by a group, a committee or the same number of Members who are entitled to table it. Committees have a duty to ensure that motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to this Rule which meet the requirements laid down are followed up and duly referred to in documents produced as a result. Rule 114 Recommendations