Natural disasters, EU solidarity fund needed without delay and European reaction force Environment 2007-09-04 - 11:59 In adopting a joint resolution on natural disasters, MEPs call on the Commission to mobilise the current EU Solidarity Fund in the most flexible manner possible, without delay, while calling for greater spending on flood defences. The House also request the creation of a European force that could immediately react in emergencies. On the fires in Greece, MEPs want the Member States to abstain from commercialisation, to strengthen penal sanctions for criminal acts that damage the environment. The resolution which was adopted by a large majority in a show of hands makes reference to the devastating fires and the violent floods which have caused death and destruction throughout the European continent, in particular in Greece and the United Kingdom, during the summer of 2007, affecting EU Member States, outermost regions, in particular Martinique and Guadeloupe, which were hit by Hurricane Dean, applicant countries and the EU's immediate neighbours. MEPs point out that the area burned in July alone was as large as the total area burned during the whole of last year. European Union Solidarity Fund The House asks the Commission to mobilise the current EU Solidarity Fund (EUSF) in the most flexible manner possible and without delay, avoiding time-consuming procedures or administrative obstacles. MEPs consider, in this respect, that the necessary resources need to be made available immediately for the purpose of relieving the suffering and satisfying the needs of victims and their immediate families by means of the EUSF, any other Community Instrument (e.g. Structural Funds or EARDF), or any other possible financial means. MEPs urge the Commission, especially of a financial nature, so as to support the rehabilitation of the regions which have suffered heavy damages, restore the productive potential in the affected areas, seek to re-launch job creation and take the appropriate measures to compensate the social costs inherent in the loss of jobs and other income sources. A European disaster force? MEPs request the creation of a European force that could immediately react in emergencies, as proposed in former Commissioner BARNIER 's report (see link below), and regret the lack of response and follow-up in this respect. The House also emphasises, in this context, the need to continue the development of a rapid reaction capability based on the civil protection modules of the Member States. MEPs ask the Commission to draw up a concrete proposal to this end while underlining the role of Member States and their local authorities in effectively preventing and combating fires. Failed to demonstrate "sufficient solidarity" MEPs note that Member States' resources to combat forest fires, especially by aerial means, are limited and that it is not always possible for Member States to offer support when the resources are needed nationally. The House notes, as a result, that some Member States received less assistance than others and had to rely on bilateral agreements with non-EU states for assistance. MEPs regret, therefore, that in some cases the EU as a whole failed to display sufficient solidarity. The EP