domestic violence against women’ (A/RES/58/147), – having regard to the reports by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Special Rapporteurs on violence against women and to General Recommendation No 19 adopted by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women (11th session, 1992), – having regard to the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action adopted by the Fourth World Conference on Women on 15 September 1995 and to Parliament’s resolutions of 18 May 2000 on the follow-up to the Beijing Action Platform and of 10 March 2005 on the follow-up to the Fourth World Conference on Women - Platform for Action (Beijing+10) OJ C 320 E, 15.12.2005, p. 247. and of 25 February 2010 on the follow-up to the Beijing Action Platform (Beijing +15), – having regard to the UN General Assembly resolution of 19 December 2006 entitled ‘Intensification of efforts to eliminate all forms of violence against women’ (A/RES/61/143), and to UN Security Council Resolutions 1325 and 1820 on women, peace and security, – having regard to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, adopted in 1998, and particularly Articles 7 and 8 thereof, which define rape, sexual slavery, enforced prostitution, forced pregnancy and forced sterilisation or any form of sexual violence as crimes against humanity and war crimes and equate them with a form of torture and a serious war crime, whether or not such acts are systematically perpetrated during international or internal conflicts, – having regard to Rule 110(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas women have actively participated in the uprisings for more democracy, rights and freedoms in North Africa and the Middle East, B. whereas the incumbent regimes in Libya and Egypt have resorted to sexual assaults as part of the conflict in these revolutions, targeting women and in particular, making them vulnerable, C. whereas sexual violence seems to be used as a systematic way to intimidate and degrade women, D. whereas a Libyan woman, Iman al-Obeidi, who told reporters in a Tripoli hotel about being gang-raped and abused by soldiers, was detained on 26 March 2011 in an unknown location and is now being sued for defamation by the men she is accusing of rape, E. whereas in Egypt female protestors claim they were subject to virginity tests by the military, being rounded up from the Tahrir Square on 9 March 2011 and subsequently subjected to torture and rape, while the virginity tests were performed and photographed in the presence of male soldiers, F. whereas some Egyptian women were threatened with prostitution charges and whereas some of them will be tried before military courts for failing virginity tests, 1. Calls on the HR/VP, the Commission and the Member State governments to strongly oppose the use of sexual assaults, intimidation and targeting of women in Libya and Egypt; 2. Strongly condemns forced virginity tests inflicted by the Egyptian army on women protesters arrested in Tahrir Square and considers this practice as unacceptable as it amounts to a form of torture; calls on the Egypt's Supreme Military Council to take immediate measures to stop