owner shall provide for its adequate and effective protection in conformity with relevant legal provisions, the contract and the consortium agreement, and having due regard to the legitimate interests of the participants concerned . 2. Where the Commission considers it necessary to protect knowledge in a particular country, and where such protection has not been applied for or has been waived, the Commission may, with the agreement of the participant concerned, adopt protective measures. In this event, and as far as that particular country is concerned, the Community shall take on the obligations regarding the granting of access rights in the place of the participant. The participant may only refuse if it can demonstrate that its legitimate interests will be significantly impaired. 3. A participant may publish or allow the publication, on whatever medium, of data concerning knowledge it owns or knowledge obtained during work in connection with cooperative or collective research projects, provided that this does not affect the protection of that knowledge. The Commission and the other participants in the same indirect action shall be given prior written notice of any planned publication. A copy of such data shall on request be made available to them within 30 days of the request. The Commission and the other participants may object to publication within a period of 30 days from receipt of the data, if they consider that the protection of their knowledge could thereby be adversely affected . Article 23 Use and dissemination of knowledge 1. The participants and the Community shall use or cause to be used the knowledge which they own arising from the direct actions or indirect actions, in accordance with the interests of the participants concerned. The participants shall set out the terms of use in a detailed and verifiable manner in accordance with this Regulation and the contract. 2. If dissemination of the knowledge does not adversely affect its protection or use, the participants shall ensure that it is disseminated within a period laid down by the Community. Should the participants fail to do so, the Commission may disseminate the knowledge. Particular account shall be taken of the following factors: - the need to safeguard intellectual property rights; - the benefits of swift dissemination, for example in order to avoid duplication of research efforts and to create synergies between indirect actions; - confidentiality; - the legitimate interests of the participants. Article 24 Making available knowledge arising from direct actions Knowledge arising from work carried out under direct actions may be made available to one or more interested legal entities, in particular to those established in a Member State or an Associated State, provided that the said legal entities undertake to use the knowledge or to ensure that it is used. Such availability of knowledge shall be subject to appropriate conditions to be laid down and published by the Commission, in particular concerning the payment of fees. Article 25 Principles for access rights in indirect actions 1. Access rights in accordance with Articles 26 and 27 shall be granted on written request. The granting of access