11.12.2007 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION to wind up the debate on the statement by the Commission pursuant to Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure by Hannes Swoboda and Pasqualina Napoletano on behalf of the PSE Group on the EU/China Summit - EU/China human rights dialogue European Parliament resolution on the EU/China Summit - EU/China human rights dialogue The European Parliament , – having regard to the 10th EU/China Summit, which took place in Beijing on 28 November 2007, and to the Joint Declaration adopted, – having regard to its two most recent interparliamentary meetings with China, which took place in Beijing and Tibet in June 2007 and in Strasbourg in September 2007, – having regard to its recent resolutions on China, and in particular its resolution of 7 September 2006 on EU/China relations, – having regard to the rounds of the EU/China Dialogue on Human Rights, held in Beijing on 17 October 2007 and in Berlin on 15-16 May 2007, – having regard to Rule 103(2) of its Rules of Procedure, A. whereas the EU/China strategic partnership is of great importance for relations between EU and China, and whereas a genuine partnership must be based on shared common values, B. whereas democratic values, credibility, stability and responsibility should constitute the fundamental bases of the relationship between the EU and China, C. whereas acceptance of the One China policy underpins respect for a peaceful resolution of the Taiwan question through constructive dialogue, D. whereas the strengthening of the EU's relationship with China will be crucial in meeting global challenges such as climate change, security and non-proliferation of arms, E. whereas 'sectorial cooperation' between the EU and China has grown considerably in recent years, F. whereas trade relations and economic cooperation between the EU and China require reciprocal market access founded on the legal basis of the WTO rules, particularly with respect to the safety and security of products as well as to Intellectual Property Rights (IPR), 1. Welcomes the Joint Statement of the 10th EU/China Summit, in which both sides reaffirm their commitment to developing a comprehensive strategic partnership to meet global challenges; 2. Underlines the importance of the ongoing negotiations for a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement which will encompass the full scope of the EU/China relationship, including enhanced cooperation in political matters; 3. Calls for the stepping-up of the dialogue with China and other emerging countries, in order to build a stable and predictable global energy market, based on fair and transparent rules and aimed at a united effort in combating global warming and promoting sustainable development; 4. Considers that the pirating and counterfeiting of European products and brands by Chinese industries constitutes a serious violation of the international trading rules, urges the Chinese Authorities to considerably improve the protection of the IPR, and calls on China to uphold the current laws on the protection of IPR; 5. Emphasises the importance of concrete progress in the field of human rights, on the basis of the principles of equality and mutual respect that guide relations between EU and China; 6. Underlines the