– paragraph 4 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4. The capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 1 . 4. The capital of the SPE shall be at least EUR 15 000 . Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Without prejudice to Article 24, the SPE may, on the basis of a proposal of the management body, make a distribution to shareholders provided that, after the distribution, the assets of the SPE fully cover its liabilities. The SPE may not distribute those reserves that may not be distributed under its articles of association. 1. The share capital may not be repaid to shareholders while the company is in existence. If the share capital is reduced by losses, it must be replenished before the company can pay out dividends. Amendment 18 Proposal for a regulation Article 21 – paragraph 2 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. If the articles of association so require, the management body of the SPE, in addition to complying with paragraph 1, shall sign a statement, hereinafter a 'solvency certificate', before a distribution is made, certifying that the SPE will be able to pay its debts as they become due in the normal course of business within one year of the date of the distribution. Shareholders shall be provided with the solvency certificate before the resolution on the distribution referred to in Article 27 is taken. 2. The management body of the SPE, in addition to complying with paragraph 1, shall sign a statement, hereinafter a 'solvency certificate', before a distribution is made, certifying that the SPE will be able to pay its debts as they become due in the normal course of business within one year of the date of the distribution. Shareholders shall be provided with the solvency certificate before the resolution on the distribution referred to in Article 27 is taken. Amendment 19 Proposal for a regulation Article 26 – paragraph 1 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1a. The SPE shall have a body responsible for the supervision of the management body (a supervisory board or, in the one ‑tier system, a non-executive member of management) if its average annual number of employees exceeds 250 (explanation: 250 employees is, in terms of accounting, the size threshold for large corporations). The control body’s tasks shall depend on the national provisions of the Member State where the company’s registered office is situated. Justification Im Widerspruch zum Anspruch der Kommission, nämlich eine europaweit einheitliche Rechtsform zu schaffen, steht, dass aufgrund des hohen Maßes an Vertragsfreiheit, die Corporate Governance, also das Zusammenwirken von Leitung und Kontrolle in den Satzungen ganz unterschiedlich ausgestaltet sein wird, was letztlich dazu führt, dass wir nicht 27 verschiedene SPEs sondern tausende verschiedene SPEs haben werden, die alle nicht vergleichbar sein werden. Der von der Kommission eingeschlagene Weg, nämlich vieles Wichtige der Satzung zu überlassen, ist höchst fragwürdig, weil die Satzung zu jedem Zeitpunkt wieder geändert werden könne. Gläubiger, aber auch Minderheitseigentümer könnten sich