prices, as well as the exchange rate, inflation forecasts have been firmly maintained at low levels in the region of 2%. This is the product of well-designed strategic planning, based on the independence needed to achieve the objective of stability and adopt decisions, the structured procedure needed for the analysis of risks threatening price stability, the transparency needed to inform economic operators of monetary policy decisions and explain them, and accountability to European citizens and their legitimate direct representatives, the European Parliament. Transparency and accountability are matters of constant concern and debate, as regards relations both with the European Parliament and other European institutions, particularly the Commission and Council, as well as with European citizens in general. My personal view is that the degree of transparency offered by the European Central Bank is highly satisfactory: monetary policy objectives are clearly defined and economically justified, while the way in which positions and decisions in this field are explained and announced is in line with best practice, with due regard for the institutional characteristics of the European Union. This transparency, vital in ensuring the effectiveness of Eurosystem decisions, also serves the interests of accountability. The ongoing dialogue with the European Parliament and the requirements to report to the Commission and Council are a vital and necessary counterweight to the independence of the European Central Bank. This exchange of information and views can only help foster greater understanding of the challenges facing the European Union in its efforts to achieve sustainable growth, convergence, employment and economic and social cohesion. I should like to conclude these brief remarks by touching on two of these challenges and their link with monetary policy. First of all, the inescapable objectives of enhancing sustainable growth potential and creating more and better jobs, within the framework of the Lisbon agenda. In order to meet these challenges it is vital for economic policies to inspire confidence and be geared to improving the market's capacity to adapt. The core of these initiatives consists of the structural reform policies for the goods, services, capital and labour markets, together with sustainable tax policies encouraging productivity and growth. In this connection, the best contribution monetary policy can make to sustainable growth and improved living standards is a firm commitment to medium-term price stability. This is a conclusion which enjoys sufficient objective justification and which, happily, is reflected in the letter of the Treaty on European Union. The aim is to maintain the value of the currency and thus help to secure growth and employment. Secondly, we are faced with the imperative of extending our frontiers to embrace ten new members of the economic and monetary union. This historic process, which will formally begin just over a month from now with the enlargement of the European Union on 1 May 2004, is rich in opportunities, but will also pose challenges as regards real and nominal convergence. The most important of these will be to determine how quick the transition to the single European currency should be in each case. The experience of most of the accession countries