WRITTEN QUESTION E-1446/08 by Elly de Groen-Kouwenhoven (Verts/ALE) , Margrete Auken (Verts/ALE) and David Hammerstein (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (13 March 2008) Subject: Illegal ski resort Super Borovets The area of Borovets on the Rila mountain in Bulgaria comprises imposing complexes of glacial lakes, siliceous rocky screes, acidophile grassland communities, and priority nardus grasslands on the Rila mountain. On the lower altitudes there are century-old acidophilus spruce forests, forests of endemic Balkan pine and priority phytocenoses of dwarf pine. The forests provide key habitats for the brown bear, the grey wolf, and the Balkan chamois, 17 bird species listed in Annex I of the Birds Directive 79/409/EEC OJ L 103, 25.4.1979, p. 1. — tetrao urogallus, ciconia nigra, glaucidium passerinum etc., and five bird species listed in the Bulgarian Red Data Book. There are 57 endemic species and 105 relict species and 98 are listed in the Red Data Book of Bulgaria. The area was urbanised in the past by hotels, lifts and ski runs in the Borovets resort. Now it is planned to develop the area further by a ski resort named Super Borovets. The investor in Super Borovets is the company Rila-Samokov 2004 Ltd The ownership is divided as follows: Borovets Investment Ltd (67 %), Samokov Municipality (25 %) and Glavbolgarstroy (8 %). Borovets Investment Ltd is owned by the offshore fund Equest Investment Balkans Ltd and the State Fund of Oman. The investment is estimated at EUR 500 million. There are plans for 25 000 beds in the hotels. More than 100 km of new ski runs will be built. The project has been officially supported by the Bulgarian Government. The former prime minister of Bulgaria and member of the council of the present ruling coalition is the owner of 1 654 hectares of land in the area of the future ski resort. This seems to be the reason for the Bulgarian Government to remove from the Natura 2000 sites list the Rila Buffer site where the area of Super Borovets is located, in order to escape the inevitable repercussions of eventual infringement procedures. There are suspicions about high-level corruption and conflicts of interest behind this project. 1. Does the Commission realise that this planned ski resort will result in catastrophe for Europe’s famous natural heritage located in the area of Borovets in Bulgaria? 2. How will the Commission ensure the fulfilment of Bulgaria’s obligations under Directive 92/43/EEC OJ L 206, 22.7.1992, p. 7. , and when will the Commission undertake infringement proceedings against Bulgaria?