In addition, if at least one-third of the members present so request when the vote is taken, the report shall indicate how each member voted. 3. Where the committee's opinion is not unanimous the report shall also give a summary of the minority opinion. Minority opinions shall be expressed when the vote on the text as a whole is taken, and may, at the request of their authors, be the subject of a written declaration not exceeding 200 words in length, annexed to the explanatory statement. The chair shall settle any disputes which may arise as a result of the application of these provisions. 4. On a proposal from its bureau, a committee may set a deadline within which the rapporteur shall submit the draft report. This deadline may be extended or a new rapporteur appointed. 5. Once the deadline has expired, the committee may instruct its chair to ask for the matter referred to it to be placed on the agenda of one of the next sittings of Parliament. The debates may then be conducted on the basis of an oral report by the committee concerned. CHAPTER 3 FIRST READING Committee stage Rule 49 Modification of a Commission proposal 1. If the Commission informs Parliament or if the committee responsible becomes otherwise aware that the Commission intends to modify its proposal, the committee responsible shall postpone its examination of the matter until it has received the new proposal or the amendments of the Commission. 2. If the Council substantially modifies the Commission proposal, the provisions of Rule 55 shall apply. Rule 50 Commission and Council position on amendments 1. Before the committee responsible proceeds to the final vote on a Commission proposal, it shall request the Commission to state its position on all the amendments to the proposal adopted by the committee, and the Council to comment. 2. If the Commission is not in a position to make such a statement or declares that it is not prepared to accept all the amendments adopted by the committee then the committee may postpone the final vote. 3. If appropriate, the position of the Commission shall be included in the report. Plenary stage Rule 51 Conclusion of first reading 1. Parliament shall examine the legislative proposal on the basis of the report drawn up by the committee responsible pursuant to Rule 42. 2. Parliament shall first vote on the amendments to the proposal with which the report of the committee responsible is concerned, then on the proposal, amended or otherwise, then on the amendments to the draft legislative resolution, then on the draft legislative resolution as a whole, which shall contain only a statement as to whether Parliament approves, rejects or proposes amendments to the Commission's proposal and any procedural requests. The consultation procedure is concluded if the draft legislative resolution is adopted. If Parliament does not adopt the legislative resolution, the proposal shall be referred back to the committee responsible. All reports tabled under the legislative procedure should conform to the provisions of Rules 35, 40 and 42. Any non-legislative motion for