the European Union should be delegated to the Commission in respect of updating Part 1 of Annex I, except for any modifications to the optional nature of the required information, and adapting Annexes II to VII. It is of particular importance that the Commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level. The Commission, when preparing and drawing-up delegated acts, should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the European Parliament and to the Council. (11) In order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of this Regulation, implementing powers should be conferred on the Commission. Those powers should be exercised in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers OJ L 55, 28.02.2011, p. 13. , HAVE ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 Subject-matter and scope 1. Each Member State shall compile statistics for the Union on the carriage of goods by road by means of goods road transport vehicles which are registered in that Member State, and on the journeys made by such vehicles. 2. This Regulation shall not apply to the carriage of goods by road by means of: (a) goods road transport vehicles whose authorised weight or dimensions exceed the limits normally permitted in the Member States concerned; (b) agricultural vehicles, military vehicles and vehicles belonging to central or local public administrations, with the exception of goods road transport vehicles belonging to public undertakings, and in particular railway undertakings. Each Member State may exclude from the scope of this Regulation goods road transport vehicles whose load capacity or maximum permissible weight is lower than a certain limit. This limit may not exceed a load capacity of 3,5 tonnes or maximum permissible weight of 6 tonnes in the case of single motor vehicles. 3. This Regulation shall not apply to Malta, so long as the number of Maltese-registered goods road transport vehicles licensed to engage in the international carriage of goods by road does not exceed 400 vehicles. For that purpose, Malta shall submit annually to Eurostat the number of goods road transport vehicles licensed to engage in the international carriage of goods by road at the latest by the end of March following the year to which the number of goods road transport vehicles relates. Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (a) ‘carriage of goods by road’: all transport of goods by means of a goods road transport vehicle; (b) ‘road transport vehicle’: a road vehicle fitted with an engine whence it derives its sole means of propulsion, which is normally used for carrying persons or goods by road, or for drawing, on the road, vehicles used for the carriage of persons or goods; (c) ‘road vehicle for the transport of goods’: a road vehicle designed exclusively or primarily to carry goods (lorry, trailer, semi-trailer); (d) ‘goods road transport vehicle’: any single