force of this Regulation. ** OJ please insert date: six months after the entry into force of this Regulation. Amendment 14 6 Proposal for a regulation Article 35 a and Article 35 b (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Article 35 a Commission report As soon as possible, and in any event by 1 July 2010, the Commission shall present to the European Parliament, the Council and other institutions concerned, a report on further reform of the supervisory regime under this Regulation and, in accordance with the applicable procedure under the Treaty, any appropriate legislative proposal. Article 35 b International developments In proposing amendments to this Regulation, the Commission should take account of international developments. Justification This clause aims at ensuring that the present regulation is reviewed in the light of the conclusions of the de Larosière group. Amendment 14 7 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section A – point 1 – introductory part Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The credit rating agency shall have an administrative or supervisory board that is responsible for ensuring: 1. A credit rating agency or group of credit rating agencies shall maintain arrangements for sound corporate governance. In determining its corporate governance arrangements, the credit rating agency or group of credit rating agencies shall have regard to the need to ensure that it provides ratings that are independent, objective and of high quality. The credit rating agency or the group of credit rating agencies shall have an administrative or supervisory board that is responsible for ensuring: Justification There should be no need to have a number of boards for one group of credit rating agencies. Amendment 14 8 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section A – point 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. A credit rating agency shall be organised in a way that ensures that the business interest of the company does not impair the independence and accuracy of the rating process. 2. A credit rating agency shall be organised in a way that ensures that the business interest of the company does not impair the independence and accuracy of the rating process. The senior management , as defined in Article 2(9) of Commission Directive 2006/73/EC OJ L 241, 2.9.2006, p. 26. of a credit rating agency shall be of good repute and sufficiently skilled and experienced, and shall ensure the sound and prudent management of the credit rating agency. The senior management of a credit rating agency who exercise responsibility for directing its business shall be of good repute and sufficiently skilled and experienced, and shall ensure the sound and prudent management of the credit rating agency. The administrative or supervisory board of a credit rating agency shall include at least three non-executive members who shall be are independent. The remuneration of the independent members of administrative or supervisory board shall not be linked to the business performance of the credit rating agency and shall be arranged so as to ensure the independence of their judgement. The term of office of the independent members of