Question for written answer E-006861/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Willy Meyer (GUE/NGL) (12 July 2011) Subject: Mortgage foreclosures: economic and financial marginalisation and permanent social exclusion; Community regulation of dation in payment In recent years, Spanish banks have handed out mortgages indiscriminately, motivated by greed and encouraged by scant and ineffective public constraints. In addition to being one of the main causes of the current financial crisis, this, combined with the exponential increase in house prices, has led to an extremely large proportion of the Spanish population acquiring excessive debts as the only means of gaining access to decent housing. This over-indebtedness, combined with the impact of the current economic crisis, particularly the huge increase in unemployment, has meant that in the last three years alone over 350 000 mortgage foreclosures have taken place. This is a dramatic situation, exacerbated by the fact that these cases not only affect the mortgage-holders, but also their immediate families and close associates, who must take responsibility for the affected persons. Hundreds of thousands of Spanish families have thus been condemned to financial and economic marginality and social exclusion, and continue to be so, because Spanish law, unlike that of most EU Member States, does not recognise dation in payment, according to which the mortgage debt can be cancelled through surrender of the property. Furthermore, once they have been made into lifelong debtors it becomes extremely difficult for these people to subsequently gain access to basic rights such as employment or another home, even by renting. In other countries, including France, England, Portugal and Germany, the law allows both the debt and the loan to be cancelled by handing over the mortgaged property (dation in payment). In view of the fact that the public authorities have paid out billions of euros in public funding to financial organisations to keep them afloat, and that these organisations continue to make billions of euros in profit: Does the Commission consider that dation in payment should be retroactively regulated throughout the EU in order to prevent millions of Europeans from becoming economically and socially excluded? Does the Commission have any information as to which Member States allow dation in payment? Does the Commission intend to investigate the matter and urge the Spanish authorities to allow dation in payment as a legal recourse administered by the courts, at least in cases where the debtor has shown good faith and the property is their sole dwelling?