Question for written answer E-000505/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Martin Ehrenhauser (NI) (1 February 2011) Subject: Irregularities in connection with the delegation of powers in OLAF In connection with complaint 856/2008/BEH against the European Anti‑Fraud Office (OLAF), the European Ombudsman recently found that powers to open and close investigations by the Office were being exercised in an irregular manner. Although, pursuant to Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 concerning investigations conducted by OLAF, the Director of OLAF, i.e. the Director-General of the Office, must open investigations, the latter has delegated his powers to a subordinate, without there being any legal basis for this. In paragraph 104 of his Draft Recommendation of 9 December 2010, the Ombudsman states, inter alia : ‘ (…) the Ombudsman concludes that OLAF did not establish that its practice of delegating the power to open and close decisions from the Director-General to the Director in charge of investigations and operations is in accordance with the law. (…) This constitutes an instance of maladministration.’ 1. In the light of this finding, does the Commission consider that the information provided to it by OLAF in connection with its reply to my Written Question E- 3872/2010 of 3 June 2010 was correct? This information gave the impression that the Director-General of OLAF only seeks advice in taking decisions. 2. Could the Commission now answer my question of 3 June 2010 regarding when this delegation of powers first took place and since when the Commission has been aware of it? 3. Could the Commission indicate whether the OLAF Supervisory Committee has looked into the issue of the delegation of powers in OLAF and, if so, with what outcome? 4. In the Commission's view, what impact do irregularities in connection with the delegation of powers have in terms of the validity of the results of investigations by the Office, and how great a risk is there that parties affected could take action to have the results of investigations quashed by the courts, making reference to procedural errors? 5. Will OLAF respond to the Ombudsman's recommendation and change its practice?