The fact that ELAS did not have to reserve for un-guaranteed bonuses is explained in the section on Article 18, Technical Provisions. The 3LD made this reserving optional, and thus the UK did not force companies to reserve for these liabilities. , and therefore had to be reserved for, the only protection accorded to unallocated terminal or final bonus under the UK regulatory scheme was the obligation to consider whether to intervene in order to protect the reasonable expectations raised in relation to such bonus" (See also section II.2. ‘Further evidence on transposition’). From the different ELAS sales materials analyzed and various pieces of evidence (WE 26 Burgess Hodgson, WE 52-54 Seymour, H5 Lloyd), it is possible to infer that terminal bonuses were an integral part of the package offered to policyholders, who had thus been led to expect that these bonuses would be paid depending only on the state of the markets at the time of leaving the Fund. Indeed, the Society used its terminal bonus practice to indicate policy values to members, to make payments on maturity or surrender, and to encourage new policy sales through statements of past performance. To summarize, some of the evidence received by the committee points to a situation where the regulator always focused exclusively on solvency margins and took little or no account of accrued terminal bonuses in its overall analysis of the financial health of the company. One line of reasoning thus argues that, if it is to be considered that these types of bonuses are an integral part of the company's ‘entire business', the regulatory authorities should have taken them into account during the course of their duties, as required by Article 8. The fact that the UK had the option of not forcing ELAS to reserve for discretionary bonuses did not necessarily exonerate the authorities from doing their utmost to respect the letter and the ultimate aim of the directive, which, as has been said, required that financial supervision cover the “assurance undertaking's entire business” . 2. Sound administrative and accounting procedures and adequate internal control mechanisms: the Appointed Actuary issue The 3LD lays down a baseline for regulation and, consistent with the nature of a directive as opposed to a regulation, leaves it to Member States to find the most appropriate means to achieve the results required by the Directive’s provisions. One of the means the UK regulators came up with was the figure of the Appointed Actuary (AA), an essential part of the UK national insurance framework and one which does not appear in the Directive. One of the AA’s missions was to act partly as a guardian of policyholders' interests (see also comments on Article 10 of the 3LD). Several pieces of evidence received claim that at different points in time ELAS might not have had sound administrative and accounting procedures nor adequate internal control mechanisms, because no action was taken to solve a serious problem that arose with the AA of ELAS. Mr. LAKE explains in H1 how in 1992, " Appointed Actuary Roy Ranson became CEO