WRITTEN QUESTION P-4632/08 by Dorette Corbey (PSE) to the Commission (14 August 2008) Subject: Dumping of electronic waste in developing countries A recent report by the environmental organisation Greenpeace demonstrates that electronic waste is being exported on a large scale from the EU to Ghana. In Ghana, the equipment is dismantled, copper wire and plastic are separated, and the rest is dumped, releasing toxic substances in the process. This occurs without any safety or environmental protection measures to speak of. Eighty percent of the scrapped equipment ending up in Ghana is reported to come from Western Europe. A large volume of electronic waste is apparently shipped from the Netherlands to Ghana via the port of Antwerp. Various EU directives curb the export of hazardous and electronic waste, in particular the European Waste Shipment Regulation (EWSR), the WEEE Directive and the RoHS Directive. The core feature of the WEEE Directive is that producers are responsible for products' entire life cycle, including disposal of scrapped equipment. Under WEEE, depending on product category, 50 to 80 % must be reused or recycled. According to Greenpeace and a study by the United Nations University and Delft University, however, the figure is currently between 25 and 40 %. By contrast, producers and importers in the Netherlands contend that, in the Netherlands, 80 % of scrapped equipment is reused or recycled. To finance reuse or recycling, consumers buying a new product pay a disposal charge in many Member States. 1. Can the Commission provide an overview on compliance with the WEEE Directive, by Member State and product category, and how does the Commission intend to improve compliance, and step up checks on compliance, with the EWSR and the WEEE Directive? 2. How does the Commission intend to bolster the concept of producer responsibility, during the forthcoming review of the WEEE Directive, so that consumers can be confident that their disposal charges are being spent properly and effectively? 3. Since a great deal of electronic waste ends up in developing countries, it is sensible to curb the use of hazardous substances in electronic equipment. Is the Commission prepared to expand the list of restricted-use substances included in the RoHS Directive so as to include, at all events, the following substances: brominated flame retardants, PVC, beryllium, compounds of antimony and softening agents?