itself. 3.1 The Commission In view of European Union policy, the system for the movement and surveillance of excisable products should be computerised in three stages, as in the classic V-shaped development approach. The main components identified as being the Commission's responsibility are: A central project office, which will also coordinate the support programme and supervise deployment, will be responsible for: – the common specifications; – technical products; – the services of the CCN/CSI network; – the coordination services for all the Member States. These Community components do not include any variant or special feature designed to meet purely national needs. It should be noted that the experience of the Member States is required as input into the systems specification. The Commission will therefore request the participation and contributions of the Member States in establishing this specification. The Commission, with the collaboration of the Member States, will also regularly evaluate the various development stages of the system. 3.2 The Member States Each Member State must develop and implement its own application of the system whilst complying with the operating and technical specifications supplied by the Commission. Member States are free to select tools, the technical environment, equipment and the like to suit their internal requirements. Each Member State may develop its application on an existing platform. However, the resulting system must comply fully with the specifications jointly agreed by the Commission and the Member States. In particular, the intra-EU interfaces must be strictly compatible in form and semantics with the systems developed by other Member States. To help Member States check the compatibility of their applications and prepare for validation (type-approval) of their systems, the Commission will provide the Member States with validation tools. The following components are the responsibility of the Member States: – drawing up of national specifications; – participation in the drawing-up of the common operating specifications and interfaces; – establishing a national project office; – quality management; – security and management policy; – developing Group I applications; – acceptance of Group I applications; – developing Group II applications; – acceptance of Group II applications; – developing Group III applications; – acceptance of Group III applications; – the information programme; – the training programme; – the support programme; – deployment. The Commission will encourage any joint initiatives to develop products that are of interest to some or all the Member States where one national administration acts as team leader.