Background Information : 06-02-2003 Brussels, 6 February 2002 Convention 06/02: Debate on social issues and first articles of the Constitution The fourteenth plenary meeting of the Convention on the Future of Europe opened on Thursday, 6 February with the presentation of the draft of the first 16 articles of the future European Constitution (annexed). These articles set out to define the Union and its objectives, fundamental rights and citizenship and the powers of the Union. The deadline for members to table amendments to these 16 articles is Monday, 17 February. They will then be discussed in the plenary meetings of 27 and 28 February where a new set of articles will also be tabled. The plenary sitting then discussed the conclusions of the working party on a social Europe . A large majority of the members endorsed the Group's conclusions, particularly regarding social values and objectives to be included in the future Constitution, such as full employment and equal treatment for men and women. Most of the members were pleased to note that, outside the field of public health, there were no plans to extend the Union's powers. It was above all, necessary to decide on the best means to achieve these objectives. Many members however, questioned the compatibility between objectives and decision-making procedures and a minority of members remained hostile to the idea of extending the vote by qualified majority. Introduction to the first 16 articles In presenting the draft of the first 16 articles, the Chairman of the Convention, Mr Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, stressed their 'political and symbolic' importance. 'We have endeavoured to formulate them in a manner which is simple and incisive and at the same time, dignified without being pompous,' he declared. Concerning Article 1 which refers to a Union 'of the people's and the States of Europe,' he stressed the desire to place the peoples at the origin and centre of the construction of Europe. Concerning the values of the Union (Article 2), he indicated that this article would also provide a basis to sanction Member States for serious omissions or infringements. Regarding the objectives (Article 3), he indicated that Part II of the Treaty would specify in greater detail the objectives of the various European policies. Concerning the incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Constitution, it has still not been decided whether it would be contained in another part of the Treaty or in an annexed protocol. He regarded this as 'nothing more than a drafting matter'. Concerning the Union's competences (Articles 8 to 16), he observed that they were based on the report by Alain LAMASSOURE MEP (EP, EPP-ED F). The early warning mechanism enabling national members to make known their views regarding European legislation (Article 9) would be set out in detail in a protocol annexed to the Constitution. Finally, regarding 'the flexibility clause' (Article 16), he indicated the possibility of transferring additional powers to the Union would be subject to a more formal procedure than that currently set out in Article 308 involving in particular better information for national parliaments.