WRITTEN QUESTION E-3658/09 by Raül Romeva i Rueda (Verts/ALE) , Caroline Lucas (Verts/ALE) and Alain Lipietz (Verts/ALE) to the Commission (19 May 2009) Subject: Negotiations for an EU‑Central America Association Agreement The next round of negotiations for an EU‑Central America Association Agreement will be held from 6 to 10 July in Brussels. This meeting will be preceded by an informal meeting with the chief negotiators in Prague during May aimed at making progress on the trade chapter. Is it the case that the Commission intends to await the conclusions of the Sustainability Impact Assessment (SIA) currently in progress on the trade pillar, so as to be consistent with the aims of the assessment and bring the terms of the negotiations into line with its conclusions? When will the SIA be discussed with the Central American partners? Will the Commission provide the Central American negotiators with a full Spanish version of the SIA before entering into any comprehensive discussions of its conclusions? The question of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) has significant implications as regards both medicines and biodiversity. Does the Commission intend to go beyond the TRIPS provisions in the case of Central America? Will it propose similar provisions to those put forward for the Andean countries (extension of patents from 20 to 25 years, extension of test data protection from 5 to 11 years, closer cross-border cooperation, etc.)? Will the Commission make reference to the Doha Declaration of 2001 on TRIPS and Public Health and the Declaration of the 61st session of the World Health Assembly of 24 May 2008? Given the uncertain situation as regards AIDS in some Central American countries, is it contemplating compulsory licences for the relevant medicines? What provisions are being proposed under the trade chapter as regards biodiversity protection and indigenous knowledge? In what sections of the trade chapter will references to these matters be included? Will patents for live organisms be excluded? According to a recent ILO study, the CAFTA-DR agreement has had no positive effects on the freedom to organise trade unions in Central America. What measures are planned under the EU‑Central America agreement to prevent adverse effects, particularly as regards European firms or Central American firms sub-contracted by European ones?