Answer given by Mr Mandelson on behalf of the Commission (12 April 2005) 1. The exports of chicken from the European Union to certain African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, including Cameroon, have increased over recent years from 100041 tonnes in 1997 to 221066 tonnes in 2003. However, there is no evidence to suggest that this directly results from the EU’s agricultural policy. In the cases of Cameroon and Benin, part of the increase in their imports of frozen chicken cuts could be related to the recent import ban on this product in Nigeria. Such a ban creates de facto an incentive for imports through Nigeria’s neighbouring countries. It should be noted that there is no domestic support for chicken producers in the EU: no public intervention system, direct payments or other type of domestic public policy support. The EU eliminated export refunds for whole birds exported to Africa in 1998. Export refunds for chicken cuts were authorised for only short seasonal periods and do not appear to have substantially influenced trade flows to Africa. Therefore, the reasons for the increase in exports should be found elsewhere. First, about 50% of EU exports to West and Central Africa are made up of laying hen cuts, which due to consumer preferences, have a very low selling price on the EU market. Second, the cost of animal feed has been reduced substantially as a result of the 1992 reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP)on the cereal sector, thus increasing the competitiveness of European chicken exports. Available statistics (source FAO) indicate that overall local chicken production would also have increased in several African countries during the same period, including in Cameroon where it increased by 22% from 1996 to 2003. Generally, increasing chicken meat exports to West and Central Africa over the 1996-2003 period seem to coexist with declining production levels of broiled meat and increasing production levels of farm-grown chicken. The former explains the reduction of employment in the poultry sector and the difficulties of the poultry industries referred to by APRODEV for example. As to trade policy, since 1996 a relatively rapid liberalisation of import restrictions related to various adjustment programs, World Trade Organisation (WTO) negotiations and regional integration within UEMOA (Union économique et monétaire ouest africaine), CEMAC (Communité économique et monétaire de l’Afrique Centrale) and ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States) has reduced the level of tariff and non-tariff barriers in West and Central Africa. It should be noted that such liberalisation does not prevent maintaining a reasonable protection for local producers. For example, CEMAC (including Cameroon) has a 20% tariff for poultry imports. However, any such protection, as is also the case for sanitary measures, requires effective implementation by the authorities in the importing countries. The assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency in this field is primarily the responsibility of the government concerned and relevant regional organisations. The Commission and other donors could, if requested, provide assistance in the framework of the existing cooperation instruments. However, relying purely on trade protection instead of aiming at increasing local competitiveness would