stable and reliable application rate. There shall be no leakages from the pump. (3) Agitation Agitation devices must ensure a proper recirculation in order to achieve an even concentration of the whole volume of the liquid spray mixture in the tank. (4) Spray liquid tank Spray tanks including indicator of tank content, filling devices, strainers and filters, emptying devices, and mixing devices shall operate in such a way as to minimise accidental spillage, uneven concentration distributions, operator exposure and residual content. (5) Measuring systems, control and regulation systems All devices for measuring, switching on and off and adjusting pressure and/or flow rate shall work reliably and there shall be no leakages. Control of pressure and operation of pressure adjustment devices shall be easily possible during application. Pressure adjustment devices shall maintain a constant working pressure at constant revolutions of the pump, in order to ensure that a stable volume application rate is applied. (6) Pipes and hoses Hoses and pipes shall be in proper condition to avoid disturbance of liquid flow or accidental spillage in case of failure. There shall be no leakages from pipes or hoses when run with the maximum obtainable pressure for the system. (7) Filters In order to avoid turbulence and heterogeneity in spray patterns, filters shall be in good condition and the mesh size of the filters shall correspond to the size of nozzles fitted on the sprayer. The filter blockage indication system shall operate correctly. (8) Spray boom (for equipment spraying pesticides by means of a horizontally positioned boom, located close to the crop or the material to be treated) The spray boom must be in good condition and stable in all directions. The fixation and adjustment systems and the devices for damping unintended movements and slope compensation must work reliably. (9) Nozzles Nozzles must work properly to control dripping when spraying stops. To ensure homogeneity of the spray pattern, the flow rate of each individual nozzle shall not deviate by more than 5% from the data of the flow rate tables provided by the manufacturer. (10) Distribution The transverse and vertical (in case of applications in vertical crops) distribution of the spray mixture and the distribution in the driving direction must be even. The adequate quantity and distribution of the spray mixture on the target area must be ensured. (11) Blower (for equipment distributing pesticides by air assistance) The blower must be in good condition and must ensure a stable and reliable air stream. ANNEX III Minimum elements of national background reports Part A: Elements to be included in initial national pesticide use reduction studies Description of current conditions: – Known information on production, import, export, sales and distribution of pesticides; – Current pesticide consumption patterns (overall amounts of active ingredients used; specific amounts of pesticides used in specific applications on all major crops and in non-agricultural uses, particularly in public spaces; calculation of treatment frequency index); – Description of the impacts of current pesticide use patterns on the environment, the food chain and human health, based on data gathered via existing monitoring programmes; –