by Russia, the US and Kazakhstan; whereas Bakiyev publicly declared that he had signed a letter of resignation under pressure put on him and his family and that despite his resignation statement he still was the legitimate president of Kyrgyzstan until the Parliament relieved him of his duties, G. whereas on 13 April 2010 the Kyrgyz Constitutional Court in order to assure stability and avoid confrontation between the political forces was forced to heed the demands of the country’s interim government that the court be disbanded, H. whereas the situation in Kyrgyzstan is still unstable with the outbreak of new ethnic riots in the outskirts of Bishkek on 19 April 2010 leaving people dead and injured challenging the efforts of the interim government to restore the order; whereas in Jalalabad Bakiyev’s supporters installed a pro-Bakiyev governor after seizing a regional government office; whereas clashes between the supporters of the two sides are still going on in some parts of the country, I. whereas the government of the Russian Federation has adopted a package of USD 50 million in economic assistance to Kyrgyzstan along with shipments of gasoline and diesel for spring harvest, J. whereas Central Asia is to a great extent characterised by poverty and a multitude of serious threats against human security, as well as by bad governance, strong authoritarianism and lack of legal channels for expressing discontent and pursuing political change; whereas this can turn out to be the breeding ground for underground radical Islamist movements and rapid growth of such movements in the poorest countries, K. whereas the EU must always uphold its commitment to mainstream human rights, democracy and the rule of law in all agreements with third states and to promote democratic reforms through coherent policies enhancing its credibility as regional player, 1. Expresses it deepest concern at the situation in Kyrgyzstan and offers its condolences to the families of all the victims of the tragic events; 2. Calls on all parties to stop violence, show restraint and make every effort so as to start a genuine dialogue aimed at bringing stability and provide the conditions for a peaceful return to a democratic constitutional order; 3. Calls for a UN-led international investigation into the events in order to identify responsibilities and shortfalls and provide the assistance to the Kyrgyz judicial authorities so that they bring perpetrators to justice ensuring the respect and fairness of the judicial procedures; 4. Welcomes the first steps taken by the provisional government to restore democracy with regard, in particular, to the plans to draft a new constitution overhauling Bakiyev’s revision that concentrated excessive power in the hands of the presidency and calls for new elections as soon as the conditions for free and fair elections are met and the necessary legislation is adopted and implemented; 5. Welcomes, in this regard, the announcement of the interim government to hold the referendum on the new constitution on 27 June 2010 and new general elections on 10 October 2010; 6. Stresses that a dynamic social policy and efforts to address cultural and educational issues are