the books of the SPE. The bookkeeping of the SPE shall be governed by the applicable national law. Justification It is only necessary to ensure that the management body is responsible for bookkeeping. That means that for inspection of the books the addressee is the management body. But outsourcing of bookkeeping must be possible. Amendment 49 Proposal for a regulation Article 26 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The SPE shall have a management body, which shall be responsible for the management of the SPE. The management body may exercise all the powers of the SPE not required by this Regulation or the articles of association to be exercised by the shareholders. 1. The SPE shall have a management body, which shall be responsible for the management of the SPE. The management body may exercise all the powers of the SPE not required by this Regulation or the articles of association to be exercised by the shareholders. The shareholders may limit the power of director(s) by resolution. Justification Clarification. Amendment 50 Proposal for a regulation Article 29 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. Shareholders holding 5% of the voting rights attached to the shares of the SPE shall have the right to request the management body to submit a proposal for a resolution to the shareholders. 1. Shareholders holding 10% of the voting rights attached to the shares of the SPE shall have the right to request the management body to submit a proposal for a resolution to the shareholders. Justification An SPE will have only some shareholders compared to a Societas Europaea. Therefore it is justified if the right to request the management body to submit a proposal for a resolution to the shareholders is 10%. Amendment 51 Proposal for a regulation Article 30 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. A person who is disqualified under national law from serving as a director of a company by a judicial or administrative decision of a Member State may not become or serve as a director of an SPE. 3. A person who is disqualified under national law from serving as a director of a company by a judicial or administrative decision of a Member State may not become or serve as a director of an SPE. National rules relating to the disqualification of persons as directors shall be applicable. Justification In national law persons are also disqualified due to a judicial decision, e.g. fraud etc. Amendment 52 Proposal for a regulation Article 35 – paragraph 1 – subparagraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The registered office of an SPE may be transferred to another Member State in accordance with this Chapter. 1. Taking into account Article 9(1), the registered office of an SPE may be transferred to another Member State , where it effectively carries out its economic activity, in accordance with this Chapter. Justification Article 35 needs to be in line with Article 9(1). Amendment 53 Proposal for a regulation Article 35 –