during his trial for ‘defamation of religion’ in 2007; whereas even his death has only had minimal coverage on state-controlled TV and the authorities have yet to publicly condemn his murder; I. whereas the Azerbaijani authorities have a poor record of investigating attacks against journalists, contributing significantly to the climate of fear and impunity which is spreading throughout the media landscape over recent years; J. whereas Azerbaijan is actively participating in the European Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership, is a founding member of Euronest and is committed to respecting democracy, human rights and the rule of law, that are core values of these initiatives; K. whereas Azerbaijan will take up a non-permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the period of 2012-2013, and has committed to uphold the values as expressed in UN Human Rights Charter; L. whereas Azerbaijan is a member of the Council of Europe and a party to the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), as well as a number of other international human rights treaties, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; M. whereas Azerbaijan has subscribed to respect human rights as part of core European values in the framework of its membership of the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the ENP Action Plan, and the Joint Declaration on the Prague Eastern Partnership Summit; 1. Strongly condemns the murder of Rafig Tagi and expresses its concern over the safety of Samir Sadagatoglu; is disappointed with the failure of the Azerbaijani authorities to clearly condemn the murder of Rafig Tagi and ensure public awareness of the investigation of the circumstances surrounding his death; 2. Welcomes the move by the Azerbaijani Government to set up a special working group to investigate the murder of Rafig Tagi; calls on the Azerbaijan authorities to ensure that the investigation is thorough and effective, and that perpetrators are prosecuted and brought to justice in a trial which meets international fair trial standards; 3. Calls on the Azerbaijani authorities to do their utmost to protect the life and safety of Samir Sadagatoglu; 4. Draws attention to the fact that the ICCPR provides for freedom of opinion and expression, including criticism of religions and belief systems; stresses that the right to free speech, both offline and online, is foundational to a free and democratic society and to the protection and promotion of other rights; calls on the Azerbaijani authorities to refrain from abusing the criminal law to stifle free debate on religion; 5. Reiterates that unrestricted access to information and communication and uncensored access to the internet (internet freedom) are universal rights and are indispensable for human rights such as free expression and access to information, as well as for ensuring transparency and accountability in public life; 6. Insists that threats and incitement to violence against individuals expressing views deemed ‘offensive’ by some adherents of religions and beliefs systems are totally unacceptable, that those responsible for such threats and incitement must be prosecuted, and that the freedom of expression and safety of the threatened individuals must be fully guaranteed; 7.