WRITTEN QUESTION E-6479/08 by Erik Meijer (GUE/NGL) to the Commission (2 December 2008) Subject: Compulsory Turkish military service for males resident in the EU Member States and the adverse effect thereof in terms of integration in their country of residence and psychological well-being 1. Is the Commission aware that Turkey, an applicant country, is not a party to the Convention on the Reduction of Cases of Multiple Nationality and on Military Obligations in Cases of Multiple Nationality (Strasbourg, 6 May 1963, Treaty Series 1964, No 4) or the Protocol and Additional Protocol of 24 November 1977 (Treaty Series 1981, No 45 and No 46 respectively)? 2. Is the Commission aware that, as a result, under Turkish national legislation, ethnic Turkish males resident in other countries, including EU Member States, who hold Turkish nationality in addition to the nationality of their country of residence, can be required by the Turkish Government to complete the compulsory military service in Turkey, which, even if deferred, must be completed before they are 38 years of age, while they remain on the reserve list until the age of 45? 3. Is the Commission aware that the right of conscientious objection and the option of alternative non-military service, which is recognised in European countries which have not curtailed or abolished military service, still does not exist in Turkey? 4. Is the Commission aware that it is extremely difficult for those living outside Turkey to complete their Turkish military service as required under Turkish law since it requires them to leave their familiar surroundings for long periods, abandon or interrupt their work or studies and pay high travel costs? 5. Is the Commission aware that Turkish military service is carried out in a largely unfamiliar environment of harsh discipline and violence in which those concerned are regarded as outsiders, exposing them to a significant risk of serious psychological trauma? 6. Does the Commission agree that this is unnecessarily obstructing the integration of our ethnic Turkish fellow citizens into European society because of the adverse effect on their education, level of affluence, continuity of employment and psychological equilibrium? 7. What action is being taken by the Commission in connection with accession negotiations with Turkey with a view to remedying matters as soon as possible? Source: Constitution Article 72, Law 1111 on military service Article 1. http://www.tbmm.gov.tr/Anayasa.htm