P5_TA(1999)0156 Macao B5-0328 , 0355 , 0358 , 0388 , 0389 and 0391/1999 European Parliament resolution on Macao The European Parliament - having regard to the Commission communication to the Council on 'The European Union and Macao: Beyond 2000' ( COM(1999) 484 ), - having regard to its resolution of 12 June 1997 on the Commission communication on a long-term policy for China-Europe relations 1 1 OJ C 200, 30.6.1997, p. 158. , A. whereas Macao was the first point of permanent contact established by Europe with the Far East, as early as the mid-sixteenth century, B. whereas Macao is a symbol of almost five centuries of peaceful coexistence between the civilisations of Europe and China, as well as being synonymous with the promotion of China's external trade, C. whereas the European Union and Macao share the same values and similar legal concepts as a natural legacy of the cultural influence stemming from the Portuguese presence over the last four centuries, D. whereas on 20 December 1999 the administration of the territory of Macao will be transferred from Portugal to the People's Republic of China, E. whereas the Joint Portuguese-Chinese Declaration of 1987 and the Basic Law of 1993 guarantee that after the transfer of sovereignty the existing social and economic system of Macao and its way of life will remain unaltered, F. whereas over the period of Portuguese administration of Macao the territory developed at a constant rhythm and whereas the European Union can and must play a crucial role in the future in encouraging stability and progress in what is shortly to become the Special Administrative Region of Macao, G. whereas the Joint Portuguese-Chinese Declaration of 1987 and the Basic Law lay down that the future Special Administrative Region of Macao, to be created on 20 December 1999, will enjoy a high degree of autonomy in all its spheres of responsibility (except external relations and defence), and that it will have independent executive, legislative and judicial powers, to be exercised by its own inhabitants without interference from the central authorities of the People's Republic of China, H. welcoming the provisions of the Joint Portuguese-Chinese Declaration and the Basic Law concerning the promotion and defence of the rights and freedoms of the people of Macao, while nonetheless noting that the effective preservation of those rights and freedoms, under the principle 'one country, two systems', must be ensured by constant respect for the rule of law on the part of the future Executive of the Special Administrative Region of Macao, I. convinced, in this connection, that the future Executive of the Special Administrative Region of Macao will have every intention of preparing the reports which it should draw up under the terms of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights and the International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, whose continuing validity in Macao has been guaranteed, and noting the undertaking of the Government of the People's Republic of China to submit those reports to the UN's Commission on Human Rights and its Commission on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,