Answer given by Mr Šemeta on behalf of the Commission (22 April 2010) As pointed out by the Honourable Member, the main responsibility for direct taxation essentially rests with each individual Member State. Provided they respect EC law, Member States are free to design their national tax systems according to their priorities and preferences. In principle open and fair tax competition can protect companies and citizens from over taxation, but harmful tax competition needs to be fought. The Commission has clearly taken a position against harmful tax practices and actively supports the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation which was established in 1997 Council conclusions of the Ecofin council meeting on 1 December 1997 (OJ 98/C 2/01). . The Code spells out five criteria for identifying whether potentially harmful measures are indeed harmful: — tax benefits reserved for non-residents; — tax incentives for activities which are isolated from the domestic economy and therefore have no impact on the national tax base; — granting of tax advantages even in the absence of any real economic activity; — the basis of profit determination for companies in a multinational group departs from internationally accepted rules, in particular those approved by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD); — lack of transparency. Member States have agreed that when they find that a measure is harmful, they will effectively withdraw it. Since 1997, over 100 such measures have been withdrawn. Corporate tax rate competition seems to be a fact given declining corporate tax rates. The average corporate tax rate in the European Union has been declining since the early 1980s. However, these reductions do not seem to have had damaging consequences on the collection of tax revenues from companies, partly because some tax breaks have been reduced in scope. Revenues from Corporate Income Taxes have been rather stable as a percentage of GDP. Nevertheless the current difficult economic situation could have an effect on this trend. The analysis of empirical data suggests that until now the divergence in taxation rates has had a limited role in influencing the localisation of investment in the EU. The Commission is of the opinion that a more coordinated approach at the EU level and more effective administrative cooperation between Member States could significantly improve the performance of tax systems by removing tax obstacles in the internal market and reducing administrative costs. This could support the development of business and help to keep economic activity and ‘mobile’ assets (such as capital and companies) within the European Union, while avoiding the risk of concentrating the tax burden on less mobile bases like labour. Dealing with and preparing the exit from the economic crisis is one of the biggest policy challenges facing the EU in the coming months. Solutions are not simple, given the depth of the crisis. The Commission has adopted on the 3 March 2010 a ‘European Strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth’. The ‘EU 2020 Strategy’ recognises the need for strong policy coordination in the EU, including in the fiscal domain. Tax policies are most effective if they are