Answer given by Mr Potočnik on behalf of the Commission (20 November 2007) The Commission has not specifically allocated funding for research projects in the light of the findings in the United Nations Food and Agriculture (FAO) report mentioned. However, funding had already been available to plant research under the sixth framework programme for research (FP6) (2002‑06) — Thematic Area 5 ‘Food quality and safety’. Approximately 35 funded projects relate to crop and plant research. These will receive a total EU financial contribution of more than EUR 130 million representing almost 20 % of the total budget of this thematic area. The different topics covered by the above projects concern plant production and cropping methods etc., including plant protection and fertilisation. Many of them are directly or indirectly concerned with ‘plant foods for human consumption’. In addition, 15 projects on under-utilised crops are being supported under the FP6 International Cooperation Programme with around EUR 21 million of EU support. Given the broad range of topics covered and the fact that most projects are still running, it is not possible to provide a meaningful summary of findings. However, executive summaries of the objectives of individual research projects funded can be found at http://cordis.europa.eu/fp6/projects.htm, and individual project websites, where available, are listed on the attached tables. In the seventh framework programme for Research (2007‑13) — Theme ‘Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and Biotechnology’, 8 research projects in food-related plant sciences from the first call for proposals are under contract negotiation for an expected total maximum EU contribution of EUR 27 million. It should also be noted that many other projects under negotiation concern the sustainability of production systems. The Commission agrees that it is important to support research that addresses sustainable production, use and management of renewable biological resources. It also points out that the implementation of relevant environmental legislation together with continuing reform of the common agriculture policy (CAP) is contributing to more sustainable agriculture in so far as both the crop and livestock sectors are concerned. The main instrument available to the Commission to implement research support is the seventh framework programme for Research (FP7). The Theme ‘Food, Agriculture and Fisheries, and Biotechnology’ which has a strong focus on these issues, is the main programme area within FP7 which will be providing further funding for such research. Some related aspects may also be covered by the Theme ‘Environment (including Climate Change)’ and it should be pointed out that the Ideas Programme might support investigator-driven research projects in the plant sciences should suitable proposals be submitted. The Commission also refers the Honourable Member to the annexes, which are sent directly to the Honourable Member and Parliament's Secretariat.