adopted at first reading (Rule 66) Pursuant to Article 251(2) of the EC Treaty, the Council had informed Parliament that it had approved Parliament's position adopted at first reading on 21 April 2004 with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1655/2000 concerning the financial instrument for the environment (LIFE) ( 2003/0260(COD) ). The act was thus adopted and would be signed jointly by the President of Parliament and the President-in-Office of the Council, pursuant to Rule 68 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. 11 Requests for the waiver of parliamentary immunity The competent authorities in the Czech Republic had forwarded a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of Vladimir Železný. Pursuant to Rule 6(2), the request had been referred to the committee responsible, the JURI Committee. The competent authorities in Germany had forwarded a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of Rainer Wieland . Pursuant to Rule 6(2), the request had been referred to the committee responsible, the JURI Committee. 12 Request for the defence of parliamentary immunity Umberto Bossi 's lawyer had written to the Presidency asking Parliament to contact the competent authorities in Italy in order to defend Mr Bossi's parliamentary immunity in a case pending before a court in Padua. Pursuant to Rule 6(3), the request had been referred to the committee responsible, the JURI Committee. 13 Texts of agreements forwarded by the Council The Council had forwarded certified true copies of the following: - Agreement between the European Community and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation; - Protocol modifying the fourth protocol laying down the conditions relating to fishing provided for in the agreement on fisheries between the European Economic Community, on the one hand, and the government of Denmark and the local government of Greenland, on the other; - Agreement on the promotion, provision and use of Galileo and GPS satellite-based navigation systems and related applications; - Protocol to the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Azerbaijan, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovak Republic to the European Union; - Cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (GNSS) between the European Community and its Member States and the State of Israel. 14 Order of business The next item was the order of business. The final draft agenda for the part-session (PE 344.811/PDOJ) had been distributed. No changes had been proposed. Council request for the application of urgent procedure (Rule 134) for: - Proposal for a regulation imposing certain restrictive measures in support of effective implementation of the mandate of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia ( COM(2004)0348 – C6-0041/2004 – 2004/0114(CNS) ) Reason for