difference between the numbers of men and women. However, there are significant differences between the north and south of Europe (women account for over 60% of workers in enterprises in Sweden, 53% in Denmark and 50% in Finland, but less than 18% in Portugal). Men and women have greater opportunities to take part in vocational training programmes when they work in large enterprises. A substantially larger percentage of women compared to men takes part in more practical, employment-oriented programmes, rather than more theoretical or research programmes or programmes which provide access to professions requiring high qualifications. Training in communications networks and computer programming is dominated by men. Women are involved only in word-processing programmes,which prepare them for secretarial positions. In 1985 the Equal Opportunities Commission in the UK announced that gender discrimination in educational programmes was the reason why so few women chose scientific and technological subjects. However, the new technologies are not simply didactic material to be added to school textbooks; rather they profoundly change the way in which knowledge is acquired and overturn all traditional methods of teaching and learning. Proposals – Policy measures In order to increase the number of women in education and training in the new technologies, computers and the Internet must be integrated at an early stage in primary school curricula so as to encourage girls to pursue mathematics and other science subjects. Research has shown that exposure to science and technology at an early age could change the attitude of women before stereotypes begin to affect their behaviour. Strategies must also be developed to boost the participation and presence of women at all levels of education in this area. Various role models of successful, independent and satisfied women working in the new technologies sector must be provided for girls engaged in choosing a career. It is vital that education approach gender issues sensitively: it must start by questioning distinctions in the motivation, utilisation, expectations, wishes, perception and stereotypes with which both girls and boys approach computers and the new technologies generally. Education and training must go beyond teaching word-processing or entering data and include the production of knowhow. Policies must ensure that women participate both in decision-making and in shaping IT policies. For the continuing education of the workforce, cooperation between undertakings, NGOs, vocational institutes, universities and governments in creating IT education centres is essential. Special support must be given to local educational centres, in particular for women and girls, but also for marginalised groups. Particular incentives must be provided for IT companies which practise gender mainstreaming in their training and promotion policies. EMPLOYMENT Over the last decade three million new jobs have been created, 1.6 million of which are held by women. Over 60% of new jobs created between 1995 and 2000 were in the high-tech sector where women are under-represented, especially at the higher levels of technical specialisation and decision-taking. The labour market remains divided by gender, with men dominating the new technologies and women more prominent in less well-paid positions which require less specialisation and provide less security. Women are recruited chiefly