proposed citizens' initiative: Box 3 : (to be completed by signatory ) 1. Name of signatory: First name*:………………………Family name*: 2. Address : Street: Postcode: City*: Country*: 3. E-mail address: 4. Date and place of birth *: Date of birth: Place and country: 5. Nationality *: 6. Personal identification number*: Type of identification number/identity document*: National identity card: Passport: S ocial security: Member State , which issued the identification number/identity document*: 7. I hereby certify that the information provided in this form is correct and that I have only supported this proposed citizens' initiative once*. Date and signature of the signatory* ¨ : ……….. *: mandatory fields ¨ : signature not required when form is submitted electronically Amendment by Parliament Statement of support form Box 1: (to be pre-completed by the organisers ) 1. Commission registration number: 2. Date of registration: 3. Web address of the proposed citizens' initiative on the Commission register: Box 2: (to be pre-completed by the organisers ) 1. Title of the proposed citizens’ initiative: (maximum 100 characters) 2. Subject-matter: (the subject should be as clear as possible) (maximum 200 character) 3. Description of the main objectives of the proposed citizens' initiative*: (maximum 500 characters) 4. Name and address of organisers : 4a. Name and address of the contact persons: 5. Website of the proposed citizens' initiative * : 5a. All sources of support and funding received in respect of the proposed citizens' initiative: Box 3 : (to be completed by signatories ) Name Address of permanent residence Date and place of birth Nationality Date of signature Signature ¨ Signatories may only support a given proposed citizens’ initiative once! ______ * If any. ¨ : signature not required when form is submitted electronically . Justification Changes made necessary by changes to the enacting terms. The form should contain several rows for the collection of signatures, because that is how signatures are usually collected in practice. Amendment 60 Proposal for a regulation Annex V Text proposed by the Commission Form for the request of a decision on the admissibility of a proposed citizens’ initiative 1. Title of citizens’ initiative*: 2. Commission registration number*: 3. Date of registration*: 4. Number of statements of support received*: 5. Number of signatories per Member States*: BE BG CZ DK DE EE IE EL ES FR IT CY LV LT LU Number of signatories HU MT NL AT PL PT RO SI SK FI SE UK TOTAL Number of signatories 6. I hereby declare that the information provided in this form is correct. Date and signature of the organiser*: *: mandatory fields Amendment by Parliament deleted Justification Article 8 is deleted. Amendment 61 Proposal for a regulation Annex VI Text proposed by the Commission Amendment Form for the submission of statements of support to the Member States’ competent authorities Form for the submission of statements of support to the Member States’ competent authorities 1. Full name, postal address and e-mail address of the organiser or, in the case of a legal entity or organisation, its legal representative *: 1. Full name, postal address and e-mail