as more standards were in use worldwide than the current two leading standards. An alternative to convergence between these two standards would be the political recognition of equivalence between both standards, which differ in content but are of an equally high quality. On 12 July 2007 the Commission submitted a first report on the work timetable of the authorities responsible for national accounting standards in the US, Japan and Canada for convergence between IFRS and the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAPs) of those countries. The report also describes the amount of progress in the convergence between International Financial Reporting Standards and the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of Canada, Japan and the United States of America and of progress on the elimination of reconciliation requirements that apply to Community issuers in those countries . Certainly the issues concerning convergence and equivalence of accounting standards have some parallels to EU-US discussions on financial conglomerates and the delayed implementation of Basle II. It looks as if the United States were willing to be involved in negotiating agreements on new rules in order to reach a compromise, but will then fail to implement them subsequently itself. The potential recognition of IFRS by the SEC brings with it the urgent question of where the ultimate competence regarding interpretation is to lie. It has to be noted that the European structures are not yet ready for this question. For other third countries the Commission has committed itself to report to the European Securities Committee and the European Parliament about the development of regulatory discussions and the amount of progress in the convergence between International Financial Reporting Standards and the Generally Accepted Accounting Principles of third countries and progress towards the elimination of any reconciliation requirements. 5.10.2007 OPINION of the Committee on Legal Affairs for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and the governance of the IASB ( 2006/2248(INI) ) Draftsman: Klaus-Heiner Lehne SUGGESTIONS The Committee on Legal Affairs calls on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: 1. Repeats Parliament's position as stated in paragraphs 37 to 39 of its resolution of 4 July 2006 on recent developments and prospects in relation to company law OJ C 303 E, 13.12.2007, p. 114. ; 2. Deplores the fact that the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) lacks democratic control and pluralistic input and thus arrives at decisions that do not adequately reflect the reality of European companies, notably European small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); 3. Notes the merits of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), which do not just concern technical accounting aspects but also bring benefits to capital markets and to the European Union as a world leader; 4. Stresses the need for more representatives with a European background within the international standard-setting bodies, in order to legitimate a truly international approach and to meet the need for a balanced consideration of the weight of the European Community, constituting as it does by far the largest economic area