to greater media literacy, G. whereas, when it comes to the development of telecommunication networks and progress towards disseminating information and communication technology (ICT), there are significant differences between the Member States, as well as between regions, particularly in remote and rural areas, posing the threat that the digital divide in the EU could widen still further, H. whereas schools have an essential role to play in moulding people capable of communicating and of exercising judgement; whereas the position regarding media education varies widely from one Member State and one region to the next, as does the degree to which ICT is integrated and used within education; and whereas media education can be provided primarily by teachers who themselves are media literate and have been given the necessary training, I. whereas media education is essential to achieving a high level of media literacy, which is an important part of political education that helps people to strengthen their behaviour as active citizens and their awareness of both rights and duties; whereas, furthermore, well-informed, politically mature citizens form the basis of a pluralist society; and whereas, by producing their own content and media products, users acquire abilities affording them a deeper insight into the principles and values of professionally produced media content, J. whereas media education work aimed at older people is not so well established as the activities aimed at young people and whereas older people often feel apprehensive about, and inhibited by, new media, K. whereas threats to the security of personal data are becoming increasingly insidious and manifold, thereby constituting a high risk for uninformed users; L. whereas media literacy is an essential key qualification in the information and communication society, M. whereas the media provide opportunities for global communication and openness to the world, whereas they are cornerstones of democratic societies and whereas they impart knowledge as well as providing information, and whereas new digital media provide positive opportunities for participation and creativity, thereby enhancing citizens" involvement in political processes, N. whereas there are currently insufficient data available to make precise statements about the level of media literacy in the European Union, O. whereas the decisive importance of media literacy has also been highlighted by UNESCO in, for example, the Grünwald Declaration on Media Education (1982) and the Paris Agenda – twelve recommendations for media education (2007), Principles 1. Welcomes the above-mentioned Commission Communication on media literacy in the digital environment, but believes that there is room for improvement to the extent that the European approach intended to foster media literacy needs to be more clear cut, especially as regards the inclusion of traditional media and recognition of the importance of media education; 2. Welcomes the Council conclusions of 22 May 2008 on intercultural competences; looks to the Member States to do their utmost to promote media literacy and proposes that the Member States" contact committee, as provided for in Directive 89/552/EEC, be strengthened through the recruitment of education experts; 3. Urges the Commission to adopt a recommendation, and develop an action plan, on media literacy; urges the Commission to