Reply (12 September 2011) According to the reverse qualified majority voting (RQMV) procedure proposed by the Commission in the context of the economic governance package, a Commission recommendation is deemed to be adopted unless the Council decides by qualified majority to reject the recommendation within a given deadline that starts to run from the adoption of such a recommendation by the Commission. Under this RQMV, if the Council decides to vote on the Commission recommendation, the weighted votes of Member States as laid down by the Treaties will remain unchanged (see table below). The current rules for the calculation of a qualified majority are contained in Article 3 of Protocol (No 36) on transitional provisions Different rules will apply from 1 November 2014 (see Article 16(4) TEU and Article 238(2) and (3) TFEU). . The effect of that article can be summarised as follows. An act is adopted if there are at least 255 weighted votes (out of a total of 345) in its favour, representing at least two thirds of the members of the Council when it acts on a recommendation from the Commission In addition, any member of the Council may request that a check be made to ensure that the Member States comprising the qualified majority represent at least 62 % of the total population of the EU. Where, under the Treaties, not all members of the Council participate in voting (for example, where only members representing euro-area Member States take part) the same proportions apply. As 255 represents 73.91 % of 345, the number of votes required to reach a qualified majority is 73.91 % of the total number of votes of the participating members. . Where qualified majority vote applies, the blocking minority is 91 votes. Where RQMV applies, the minimum required number of votes to reject the Commission recommendation is 255. France, Germany, Italy, United Kingdom 29 Poland, Spain 27 Romania 14 Netherlands 13 Belgium, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Portugal 12 Austria, Bulgaria, Sweden 10 Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Lithuania, Slovakia 7 Cyprus, Estonia, Latvia, Luxembourg, Slovenia 4 Malta 3