and not consumers, Directive 2005/29/EC Directive 2005/29/EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market and amending Council Directive 84/450/EEC, Directives 97/7/EC, 98/27/EC and 2002/65/EC of the Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 of the Parliament and of the Council (‘Unfair Commercial Practices Directive’). on unfair commercial practices will not apply to this kind of advertising even once the directive has been transposed into the national law of the Member States. In so far as practices based on misleading advertising are directed against businesses or professionals, they will continue to be governed by Council Directive 84/450/EEC on misleading and comparative advertising Council Directive 84/450/EEC of 10 September 1984 relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning misleading advertising, OJ L 250, 19.9.1984, as amended by Directive 97/55/EC of the Parliament and of the Council. once Directive 2005/29/EC is operational at the end of 2007. The legal study on unfair commercial practices within business-to-business e-markets can be found on http://ec.europa.eu/enterprise/ict/studies/publications.htm It will also be printed and distributed free of charge to the Commission libraries, the B2B expert group of Directorate-General Enterprise, the Member States' representatives that were active in the Steering Group of the study, and to other interested parties. The Commission would like to stress that the study predominantly deals with B2B e-markets, which offer specific forms of B2B trading. The situation in which companies were approached by the ECG was not via a B2B e-market, therefore not all of the study's results are applicable in this situation. Nevertheless, since in most Member States no specific legislation exists for B2B e-markets, many of the study's findings are based on general contract law and unfair practices law in the Member States. Chapter 6.2 of the Study (p. 95), dealing with ‘Uncertainty about the legal implications of parties' initiatives and reactions in e-marketplaces’, gives a good overview of the national regulations regarding the requirements of contract conclusion via the Internet. The study comes to the conclusion (see 97) that: ‘As a common rule, all jurisdictions under examination recognise a binding effect to legally valid offers and acceptances, as long as they fulfil a number of legal prerequisites (e.g. they must express the free will of contractual parties, being specific in terms of content, being expressed in a clear manner, etc.). These basic prerequisites are on an average basis common in all jurisdictions under examination’. In the following paragraphs, the study examines more in detail the legislation in the different Member States. Taking into account these findings, the practice employed by ECG could be deemed as unfair, and the contracts concluded could have been deemed invalid in many legislations. The actions the Commission is planning to take as a follow-up to this study concern foremostly B2B e-markets and are of limited relevance for the case at hand.