Procedure, – having regard to the recommendation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the opinion of the Committee on International Trade ( A6‑0059/2006 ), 1. Gives its assent to conclusion of the Protocol; 2. Instructs its President to forward its position to the Council, the Commission and the governments and parliaments of the Member States and the State of Israel. 2.9.2005 OPINION of the Committee on International Trade for the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the proposal for a Council decision concerning the conclusion of a Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the State of Israel, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Czech Republic, the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Hungary, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Republic of Malta, the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Slovenia, and the Slovak Republic to the European Union (6060/2006 – COM(2004)0754 - C6-0077/2005 - 2004/0266(AVC) ) Draftswoman: Cristiana Muscardini SHORT JUSTIFICATION INTRODUCTION This draft opinion deals exclusively with commercial relations with the State of Israel. Furthermore, pursuant to Rule 46 of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, the Committee on International Trade only deals with matters which come under its competence. For this reason the conclusions set out below should be understood as observations in support of the role played by trade. It may be useful to bear in mind that trade may help to establish links between individuals which, in the long term, may have positive repercussions at political level. CONTENT OF THE AGREEMENT Pursuant to Article 6 (2) of the Act of Accession of the new Member States to the European Union, their accession to the Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement with the State of Israel is agreed by means of the conclusion of a protocol to the Agreement. The same article provides for a simplified procedure for the conclusion of the Protocol between the Council, which acts unanimously on behalf of the Member States, and the third country concerned. On 10 February 2004 the Council approved a mandate instructing the Commission to negotiate the Protocol. After the conclusion of the negotiations, the text was signed by the respective authorities at the end of April 2004. Parliament is required to give its assent to this Protocol. The most important aspects of the Protocol are the provisions regarding the accession of the new Member States to the EU-Israel Association Agreement, the adjustment of the Protocol as regards agricultural products and the inclusion of the new official languages of the European Union. COMMENTS The drawing up of the Protocol, fully incorporated in the Association Agreement between the European Union and Israel, is a factor that will strengthen the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue in the context of the Barcelona Process. At the same time, it demonstrates the successful progress of commercial relations between the Union and Israel. The figures confirm this: trade with the EU accounts for 36 % of Israel’s total trade. There is further evidence of this positive