transfer request) in proportion to the level of guarantee to be given for each loan operation. The amount (which can be seen as a type of "insurance charge") corresponds to 9% of the total capital value to be guaranteed. In the case of default by a beneficiary on a loan granted or guaranteed by the Community, the Fund would provide payments to cover the cost, thus protecting the budget from sudden shocks. The Fund only covers the risk of loan and guarantees to third countries. The Commission's proposal The Community, only through EIB loans in this case , have extended loans and guarantees for several of the Accession countries (so far covered by the guarantee as they are "third countries" until 30 April 2004) As these countries now become EU Members, the Commission proposes specific wording to the basic regulation which would make it more clear that these liabilities are excluded from the guarantee mechanism. The proposal of the Commission therefore explicitly states that loans and guarantees for the 10 new Member States would no longer be covered by the Guarantee Fund as from the day they become Member States. However, this does not mean that the guarantee on these loans is cancelled vis-à-vis the lending banks and financial institutions. Instead, it means that, from now on, any credit risk associated with these loans (however unlikely to result in an actual situation of default in the future) would now be transferred away from the Fund directly to the EU budget. The Commission also states that this would create a precedent for future enlargements and has therefore worded the proposed change so as to apply for any .future accessions. The second amendment proposed by the Commission is a direct consequence of the first. The Guarantee Fund has a "target amount" based on the total volume of the loan portfolio (hence the need to keep paying in 9% of the loan value for each new loan). However, since the guarantee will no longer cover loans and guarantees granted for the 10 new member States, this share of the Fund should naturally be deducted (and would be paid back into the general budget as revenue). The provisions suggested adapts the Regulation to make this possible. the amount foreseen to be returned as revenue is € 343 million. It should be noted, though, that the changes suggested would also cover future enlargements. At present, the overall risk for the applicant states of Bulgaria, Rumania and Turkey is approximately € 2,5 billion. However, none of these loans contain what the Commission considers a "commercial risk (see below). The third amendment proposed by the Commission simply changes the deadline for the annual report to be presented to the parliament, the Council and the Court. It is stated that, due to the availability of final data for the previous year, the current report date of 31 March has turned out to be unworkable. It is suggested that the annual report would instead be presented by the 30 June. Conclusion Article 1 of the Regulation already states that "...The lending