allow for the control by the Member States, in accordance with Article 9(2). (d) the system can generate individual statements of support in a form which contains the information required in the example provided in Annex III, in order to allow for the control by Member States, in accordance with Article 9(2). Amendment 22 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 4 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 4a. In order to keep the citizens' initiative scheme user-friendly and not to provoke undue concerns about data protection, no signatory shall be asked to provide a personal identity card number. Amendment 23 Proposal for a regulation Article 6 – paragraph 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. Within 12 months following the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt technical specifications for the implementation of paragraph 4, in accordance with the regulatory procedure laid down in Article 19(2). 5. Within six months following the entry into force of this Regulation, the Commission shall adopt technical specifications for the implementation of paragraph 4, in accordance with the regulatory procedure laid down in Article 19(2). The Commission shall make available secure tools enabling online signatures to be collected in a way which does not jeopardise privacy. Amendment 24 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. The signatories of a citizens' initiative shall come from at least one third of Member States. 1. The signatories of a citizens' initiative shall come from at least one quarter of Member States. Amendment 25 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. In one third of Member States, signatories shall comprise at least the minimum number of citizens set out in Annex I. 2. In one quarter of Member States, signatories shall comprise at least the minimum number of citizens set out in Annex I. Amendment 26 Proposal for a regulation Article 7 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. Signatories shall be considered as coming from the Member State which issued the identification document indicated in their statement of support. 3. Signatories shall be considered to come from the Member State in which they have their address, as indicated in their statement of support. Amendment 27 Proposal for a regulation Article 8 – paragraph 1 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 1. After having collected 300.000 statements of support in accordance with Article 5 from signatories coming from at least three Member States , the organiser shall submit to the Commission a request for a decision on the admissibility of the proposed citizens' initiative. For this purpose the organiser shall use the form set out in Annex V . 1. After the citizens' initiative has been registered, the Commission shall examine its admissibility without delay . Justification There is no need to wait with the admissibility check until the organising committee has collected a certain number of signatures and submitted to the Commission a request for decision on the admissibility. In