meeting 09:00 15:30 Brussels Press conferences Today's press conferences 11.30 - A promise to keep: time to end the international isolation of the Turkish Cypriots - Marco CAPPATO (ALDE, IT), 2008 Human rights rapporteur for the EP, Mensur AKGUN, Program Director of TESEV, Marco PERDUCA and Maurizio TURCO, Italian MPs, and Theo van den HOOGEN, Professor of International and European Law at Groningen University 11:30 12:00 Brussels, PHS 0A50, Anna Politkovskaya Parliamentary committees BUDG Committee on Budgets 09:00 12:30 Brussels, ASP 5G2 ITRE Committee on Industry, Research and Energy Mini-Hearing on the 2nd Strategic Energy Review - see Public Hearings (09.00 - 11.00) Discussion with Valérie PECRESSE, French Minister for Higher Education and Research, Presidency-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, on the progress made in the field of research 09:00 12:30 Brussels, JAN 4Q2 15:00 18:30 Brussels, JAN 4Q2 Delegations UN Climate Change Conference in Poznan A delegation of 33 MEPs led by Guido SACCONI (PES, IT), Chairman of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, will be in Poznan for the the UN Climate Change Conference in Poznan between the 9th and 13th of December. The EP delegation, which will consist of members from the three committees most involved with parliamentary work on climate change -- the Environment, Industry and Climate Change Committees -- will organise two side events: one jointly organised with Council and Commission on the "Climate and Energy package" to explain the main political lines and the state of play and another event to present the political outline of the recommendations "2050: the future begins today" adopted recently by the Climate Change Committee. MEPs will also hold numerous high-level meetings with other delegations and civil society organisations, and liaise daily with the European Commission and Council. Parliament’s role in tackling climate change The European Parliament is co-legislator (with the Council) on issues such as the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, the proposal on renewable energies, the law on curbing car emissions, as well as projects on Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). Negotiations on several legislative proposals are ongoing at the moment in the view to find a first reading agreement within this year. The EP delegation will also hold four press conferences -- three, jointly with the European Commission and the French Presidency, on Wednesday 10 December, Friday 12 December and on Saturday 13 December; the other on Friday 12 December. Commitments made under the Kyoto Protocol for reductions in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions run to 2012. It is the EU's aim to ensure that the Poznan Conference will mark an important step in building a post-2012 framework on climate protection. The Conference, hosted by the Government of Poland, will bring together representatives of over 190 countries, along with observers from intergovernmental and nongovernmental organisations. 09:00 19:00 Poznan, Poland Public hearings Mini-hearing on the Second Strategic Energy Review Committee on Industry, Research and Energy The Industry Committee will hold a public hearing on the Second Strategic Energy Review. MEPs will debate with experts how to develop a short-term strategy for improving energy efficiency. The hearing will also focus