Answer given by Mr Dalli on behalf of the Commission (3 March 2010) The study referred to in the question of the Honourable Member consists on a statistical re-analysis of the data related to three 90-day feeding studies on rats provided by Monsanto in three applications (NK603, MON810 and MON863 maize). They conclude that the presence of new sex- and dose-dependent side effects on rats is linked with genetically modified (GM) consumption. The Commission has sent a letter to European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) requesting EFSA to review this recently published scientific study and indicate whether it contains new scientific elements that could lead the GMO panel to reconsider the outcome of its opinions related to the 3 GMOs in question. The GMO panel has recently published its analysis on the publication in question http://www.efsa.europa.eu/en/events/event/gmo100127-m.pdf and has concluded that the authors’ claims, regarding new side effects indicating kidney and liver toxicity, are not supported by the data provided in their paper and that there is no new information that would lead the Panel to reconsider its previous opinions. With regards to the requirements concerning the studies to be provided within a GMO application, the Commission is currently working on a legal framework in which the risk assessment of GMOs is to be carried out. The implementation of this measure aims to establish a common basis regarding the requirements for data submission, including toxicological studies and principles of risk assessment of applications for authorisation of GMOs. This legal framework will be based on an in-depth review of the EFSA existing guidelines related to the assessment of GMOs. Extensive discussions took already place with Member States in the framework of the Standing Committee for Food Chain and Animal Health and adoption of the text is foreseen during 2010. Concerning the issue of labelling of animal products derived from animals which have consumed GM animal feed, it is worth reminding that at the end of a thorough debate involving the Council and the Parliament, the idea was not supported by the legislator when Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 OJ L 268, 18.10.2003. on GM food and feed was adopted. Following a petition filed in 2007, the Commission committed to look into a possible legal obligation foreseeing that food products such as eggs, meat and milk produced from animals that have been fed with GM feed should be labelled as such. Consequently EFSA was requested to clarify whether transgenes or their products may be incorporated into animal tissues or products such as eggs and milk in consideration of the digestion of GM protein and DNA within the gastrointestinal tract of livestock. After analysis of the existing scientific evidence EFSA concluded that there is no scientific background to support the requests of the petitioners. On the basis of the EFSA assessment, the Commission concluded that it was appropriate to maintain the current legislative approach. This does not prevent producers to provide consumers with information on the nature of the feed via voluntary labelling schemes provided that they respect the current rules on GM labelling and traceability, and they