data retention regimes. We all need to be aware that we are committed to the fight against terrorism and we have to act quickly. Security waits for no-one and we cannot allow ourselves to concede time to our enemies. That’s why I am asking you to be understanding and determined. In the aftermath of the failures of referendums on the Constitution, the European Institutions –our Europe- have experienced, we have seen and felt terror in our cities. And we all understand very well how much our immediate response counts for the future of the European idea, particularly for our citizens. For all these reasons I share the urgency expressed by the Home Secretary. And I consider it crucial that this Parliament be with us now more than ever and be closely associated in inter-institutional debate, real discussion and cooperation, through the instrument of a Directive. Europe, and I mean all her Institutions (Parliament, Council and Commission) is not only a common dream and a common objective. We have to make it a reality." The leader of the EPP-ED group, Hans-Gert POETTERING (DE) spoke of the despicable terrorist acts of 7 July in London as having demonstrated the threats to western democracy and the freedoms underlying our society. "The reaction of London's people has shown that the terrorist will fail," he said. There must be no let up in the fight, he said, noting that great strides has been taken in the joint approach to tackle terrorism, but that many of the measures had yet to be adopted in national law across the EU. "We need fully to respect the rule of law, but also to ensure that there are no legal loopholes which can be exploited by the terrorists," he said. Too often terrorists and those promoting them cited religious motivations, but this was a perversion of Islam, he said. There was no desire for a clash of civilisations among most Muslims. "We should be willing to talk to all those who seek peaceful dialogue, and to defend ourselves against those who resort to violence." Socialist group leader Martin SCHULZ (DE) said that the speeches from Mr Clarke and Mr Frattini were reminiscent of a similar debate ten years ago, with their calls for better cooperation and mutual trust, as well as statements that no one can win the fight alone. Unfortunately, the Commission and Council were still not on the same track, with one calling for more powers for the EU institutions and the other insisting on an intergovernmental approach. Both sides would have to move, he said. "Democracy's strength is that the state is powerful, but also guarantees the rights of citizens. We need to be tough, but also to protect rights - and this will only work if our institutions have confidence in each other." He said fundamentalism of any flavour had no place in our societies, and pointed to Turkey as an example of European democratic values being embedded in an Islamic society. It would be wrong to turn our backs on Turkey in these circumstances, he argued.