(d) the date of acquisition of the shares; (d) the date of acquisition of the shares; (e) the amount of each consideration in cash, if any, paid or to be paid by the shareholder concerned; (e) the amount of each consideration in cash, if any, paid or to be paid by the shareholder concerned; (f) the value and nature of each consideration in kind, if any, provided or to be provided by the shareholder concerned; (f) the value and nature of each consideration in kind, if any, provided or to be provided by the shareholder concerned; (g) the date on which a shareholder ceases to be a member of the SPE. (g) the date on which a shareholder ceases to be a member of the SPE. 2. The list of shareholders shall, unless proven otherwise, constitute evidence of the authenticity of the matters listed in points (a) to (g) of paragraph 1. 2. The list of shareholders registered in accordance with Article 10 shall, unless proven otherwise, constitute evidence of the accuracy of the matters listed in points (a) to (g) of paragraph 1. 3. The list of shareholders and any amendments thereto shall be kept by the management body and may be inspected by the shareholders or third parties on request. 3. The list of shareholders registered in accordance with Article 10 and any amendments thereto shall be kept by the executive management body and may be inspected by the shareholders or third parties on request. Amendment 2 6 Proposal for a regulation Article 16 – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. All agreements on the transfer of shares shall be in written form. 2. All agreements on the transfer of shares shall be at least in written form. Justification The transfer of shares must not be left to the partners alone. To prevent any malpractice and in particular to prevent the creation of the possibility of money laundering, for reasons of guaranteeing transparency it has to be made possible for the Member States to arrange for stricter form provisions for the transfer act of shares. Amendment 2 7 Proposal for a regulation Article 16 – paragraph 3 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 3. On notification of a transfer, the management body shall, without undue delay, enter the shareholder in the list referred to in Article 15, provided that the transfer has been executed in accordance with this Regulation and the articles of association of the SPE and the shareholder submits reasonable evidence as to his lawful ownership of the share. 3. On notification by the shareholder of a transfer, the management body shall, without undue delay, enter the shareholder in the list referred to in Article 15 and registered in accordance with Article 10 , provided that the transfer has been executed in accordance with this Regulation and the articles of association of the SPE and the shareholder submits reasonable evidence as to his lawful ownership of the share. Amendment 2 8 Proposal for a regulation Article 16 – paragraph 4 – point a Text proposed