Question for written answer E-001125/2011 to the Commission Rule 117 Marisa Matias (GUE/NGL) (14 February 2011) Subject: Increase in price of diesel in Portugal owing to biofuel quota The price of diesel went up by two cents today in most Portuguese petrol stations. This increase is a result of a European measure making it compulsory for diesel to contain 7 % of biofuel. On Wednesday, the Portuguese Government presented a new formula for calculating the maximum price of biofuels after this type of fuel ceased to benefit from tax exemption. The Commission has decided that by 2020 the proportion of ‘green’ fuels in diesel and petrol should be raised to 10 %. An increase in the price of petrol is already to be expected by 2015 following the decision, due to enter into force then, to make it compulsory to add ethanol thereto, and this will come on top of other fuel price increases in the near future. The world is now facing historic peaks in food prices, largely due to speculation on agricultural markets and the consequences of climate change, but also to the redirecting of foodstuffs and farmlands towards biofuel production. This indirect change in the use of land is continuing to have a huge impact in terms of deforestation and sterilisation of soils and the resulting release of CO 2 which, in addition to the energy wastage caused by fuel production and transport, is undermining the energy gains afforded by this option. Given the above, the Commission is asked to answer the following: 1. It is increasingly clear that biofuel prices are only kept competitive through substantial public aid and tax exemptions and that EU citizens are the ones who in effect have to foot the bill. On the basis simply of the information so far available, we know that this type of fuel has adverse effects on food security, and thereby on society, since it has an extremely harmful impact on the environment and a dubious carbon balance, to say the least. What does the Commission plan to review in its policy on adding biofuels to fossil fuels up until and beyond 2020? 2. The European Union has effective means of promoting the use of biofuels and fossil fuels. What measures will the Commission put forward to ensure that the EU guarantees inclusive, accessible and sustainable mobility for all citizens?