vote was more controversial however. The members sought at least to retain the compromise reached in the Treaty of Nice, requiring a unanimous decision to hold a majority vote ... . By way of compromise, a number of members proposed the introduction of a 'superqualified majority vote'. The group finally urged that the function of the social partners be explicitly recognised in the Constitution. Debate on social Europe The essence of the debate concerned the Union's values and objectives in social terms and the means of implementing them. Expressing concern that the Convention may fail to set out the means of achieving its ambitions, Mr Johannes VOGGENHUBER (EP, Verts-ALE, A) referred to the Chairman's mascot, a dragon-head tortoise which took pride of place on his desk. According to Mr VOGGENHUBER, the dragon symbolised 'ardent declarations regarding values and objectives'. Concerning the symbolism of the creature's body, it was not only slow moving, but also equipped with a carapace resistant to criticism. In other words, he questioned the possibility of achieving these objectives through open coordination alone without widening the Union's powers. Mr Timothy KIRKHOPE (EP, EPP-ED, UK) on the other hand, objected to any moves by the European Union to intervene in social affairs: 'I want a sociable, not a social, Europe. Social problems do not fall within the European Union's remit. Europeans have the right to choose their own rules. If it is done at European level it will become a diktat'. Values Many members stressed the importance of the European social model. Mr Peter HAIN pointed out that it should be different from both American free market and protectionist values: 'We can neither take the American road nor create a mountain of regulations which will prevent job creation' he declared. Mr Hans-Martin BURY (Gvt, D), indicated that the social model should be shown to follow the principles of a social market economy. Mr Ben FAYOT (Pt, L), along with other members, advocated that measures to combat poverty be included among the Union's values. Mrs Sylvia-Yvonne KAUFMANN (EP, EUL/NGL, D) quoted the last sentence of the report to the effect that the objective of European and social policy was to create the conditions which would promote the development of the individual within society as completely as possible, so that, in the final analysis, the free development of each became the condition for the free development of all. She saw reflected in this the central principle formulated by Karl Marx in Brussels 150 years previously. Objectives Many members took the view that the list of objectives in the report was excessively long. This was the opinion of Mr Dick ROCHE (Gvt, Irl) and Mr Elmar BROK (EP, EPP-ED, D), who argued that it was necessary to distinguish between what was relevant to a Constitution per se and what was relevant to policy making. Mrs Piia-Noora KAUPPI (EP, EPP-ED, Fin) took the view that the Constitution was not the appropriate place for the social objectives listed. She also questioned the legal weight of certain concepts such as social justice. Mr Alfonso DASTIS (Gvt,