any twelve-month period, the Member concerned shall lose his right to table questions at question time for a six-month period. 12. Questions that remain unanswered for lack of time shall be answered in accordance with Rule 44(4), first subparagraph, unless the authors thereof request application of Rule 44(3). 13. The procedure for answers in writing shall be governed by Rule 44(3) and (5). Time limits 14. Questions shall be tabled at least one week before Question Time begins. Questions not tabled within this time limit may be taken during Question Time with the consent of the institution concerned. Questions declared admissible shall be distributed to Members and forwarded to the institutions concerned. Format 15. Question time to the Commission may, with the agreement of the Commission, be divided into specific question times for individual members of the Commission. Question time to the Council may, with the agreement of the Council, be divided into question times to the Presidency, to the High Representative for the common foreign and security policy or to the President of the Eurogroup. It may also be divided by subject. B. Recommendations (extract from resolution of Parliament of 13 November 1986) The European Parliament, 1. Recommends stricter application of the guidelines for the conduct of Question Time under Rule 43 and in particular of paragraph 1 on admissibility; 2. Recommends more frequent use of the power conferred on the President of the European Parliament by Rule 43(3) to group questions for Question Time according to subject; considers, however, that only the questions falling within the first half of the list of questions tabled for a given part-session should be subject to such grouping; 3. Recommends, as regards supplementary questions, that as a general rule the President should allow one supplementary question from the questioner and one or at most two supplementaries put by Members belonging preferably to a different political group and/or Member State from the author of the main question; recalls that supplementary questions must be concise and interrogatory in form and suggests that their duration should not exceed 30 seconds; 4. Invites the Commission and the Council, pursuant to Annex II(A)(7) of the Rules of Procedure, to ensure that answers are concise and relevant to the subject of the question.