and Parliament when amendments are made to a proposal during the legislative process. Soft law" instruments: "Too often ambiguous and ineffective" The final an own-initiative report on the institutional and legal implications of the use of "soft law" instruments considers that, in the context of the Community, soft law all too often constitutes an ambiguous and ineffective instrument which is liable to have a detrimental effect on Community legislation and institutional balance and should be used with caution, even where it is provided for in the Treaty. The report recalls that so-called soft law cannot be a substitute for legal acts and instruments, which are available to ensure the continuity of the legislative process, especially in the field of culture and education. Consumers MEPs call on the Commission to give special consideration to the effect of soft law on consumers and their possible means of redress before proposing any measure involving soft-law instruments. Sharing of best practice The report considers the open method of coordination to be legally dubious, as it operates without sufficient parliamentary participation and judicial review. The House believes that it should therefore be employed only in exceptional cases and that it would be desirable to consider how Parliament might become involved in the procedure. Text adopted by the EP EN 1 LINK /activities/expert.do# -//EP//DTD IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//STYLESHEET IM-PRESS 20050901 PBR-ITEM DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 FULL-TEXT DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-002-EN DOC XML V0//EN -//EP//TEXT IM-PRESS 20070823BRI09755 ITEM-004-EN DOC XML V0//EN Environment Natural disasters, EU solidarity fund needed without delay and European reaction force 2007-09-10 - 13:45 In adopting a joint resolution on natural disasters, MEPs call on the Commission to mobilise the current EU Solidarity Fund in the most flexible manner possible, without delay, while calling for greater spending on flood defences. The House also request the creation of a European force that could immediately react in emergencies. On the fires in Greece, MEPs want the Member States to abstain from commercialisation, to strengthen penal sanctions for criminal acts that damage the environment. The resolution which was adopted by a large majority in a show of hands makes reference to the devastating fires and the violent floods which have caused death and destruction throughout the European continent, in particular in Greece and the United Kingdom, during the summer of 2007, affecting EU Member States, outermost regions, in particular Martinique and Guadeloupe, which were hit by Hurricane Dean, applicant countries and the EU's immediate neighbours. MEPs point out that the area burned in July alone was as large as the total area burned during the whole of last year. European Union Solidarity Fund The House asks the Commission to mobilise the current EU Solidarity Fund (EUSF) in the most flexible manner possible and without delay, avoiding time-consuming procedures or administrative obstacles. MEPs consider, in this respect, that the necessary resources need to be made available immediately for the purpose of relieving the suffering and satisfying the needs of victims and their immediate families by means of the EUSF, any other Community