A round-up of the Energy Efficiency Package Institutions 2010-05-25 - 11:32 Sun setting over a darkened landscape Climate change and energy security are high on the European agenda. Fluctuating oil prices, uncertain energy supplies and fears of global warming have reinforced the fact that secure and safe supplies of energy can no longer be taken for granted. This spring MEPs backed 3 proposals aimed at making energy use more efficiently. In December 2008 the European-Parliament gave its backing to the EU’s Climate Package after nearly one year of legislative work. The aim of the package is to ensure that the EU will achieve its ambitious objectives of cutting greenhouse-gas emissions and boosting renewables (20% energy saving, 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and 20% share of renewables in overall EU energy consumption by 2020). The objective of The Energy Efficiency Package is to mobilise EU policy makers and market actors to make buildings, appliances, means of transport and energy systems more energy efficient in order to achieve the ambitious energy targets set for 2020. Read on to find out more. The three energy saving measures are: A regulation on Tyre Labelling to promote fuel efficiency An update of the Energy Performance of Buildings Directive Changes to the Energy Labelling Directive Parliament has approved the draft regulation on tyre labelling (25 November 2009), the energy performance of buildings directive (18 May 2010) and the Energy Labelling Directive (19 May 2010). Read on in this focus to find our more. 20090612FCS57088 MEPs back efficient road tyres to cut fuel bills and CO2 emissions Tyres can affect the fuel consumption of a car or lorry by 25% ©Belga If the tyres on your car are under inflated or of poor quality then you may be filling up with fuel more often than you should be. With tyres making up a quarter of the fuel consumption of a vehicle good tyres are vital to reducing fuel and CO2 emissions. New rules backed by MEPs call for a tyre-labelling system to allow drivers to see how fuel efficient tyres are. From November 2012 all new tyres on sale in Europe will be classified and labelled for fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise performance. The labelling will be similar to that required for household appliances and potential buyers will be able to compare tyre characteristics before making a purchase. The Belgian MEP who drafted the report, Ivo Belet, believes the fuel savings could equal taking 1.3 million cars off the roads (see section 4 for our interview with him). With a quarter of all CO2 emissions in the European Union coming from road transport, Members believe the urgency of reducing this is compelling. Just having a perfectly good set of tyres on a vehicle at the wrong pressure can cause an increase in fuel consumption. When this is multiplied across millions of cars the effects can be enormous. Noise levels and wet grip also labelled Like the European energy label, the tyre label will use classes ranging from best-performance (green “A” class) to worst (red “G” class). As