on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks Texts adopted, P6_TA(2008)0346 . , – having regard to its position of 18 June 2008 on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing an Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators Texts adopted, P6_TA(2008)0296 . , – having regard to its resolution of 18 November 2008 on supporting early demonstration of sustainable power generation from fossil fuels Texts adopted, P6_TA(2008)0545 . , – having regard to the Presidency conclusions of the European Council of 8 and 9 March 2007, – having regard to the Presidency conclusions of the European Council of 13 and 14 March 2008, – having regard to the Presidency conclusions of the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2008, – having regard to Rule 45 of its Rules of Procedure, – having regard to the report of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs ( A6-0013/2009 ), A. whereas any European energy policy must pursue three principal and equally important objectives in an integral manner, namely security of supply and solidarity among Member States, tackling climate change including a strong commitment to and implementation of the Union's own targets, and competitiveness, B. whereas a complete shift of paradigm in energy policy is necessary to achieve the above three main objectives while leading at the same time to a solution which takes account of social, environmental, economic and employment concerns, C. whereas the Union's dependence on conventional energy sources and on a limited number of energy producers presents a serious risk to stability, prosperity and security of energy supply, D. whereas increasing energy efficiency must play a key role in reducing dependence on energy imports, increasing competitiveness and combating climate change, E. whereas at present, the Union's energy demand continues to rise in most sectors, leaving energy efficiency potential largely unexploited, F. whereas the Union currently imports 50% of the energy that it consumes and whereas this proportion could rise to 70% by 2030, G. whereas the risks to the Union's security of supply are increased by the lack of vision towards an economy based on energy sobriety and to the low level of investment, in particular at local and regional levels, which, in all energy and energy-related sectors, is leading to capacities which are stretched or even inadequate, making it necessary in particular to renew electricity generating plants at an estimated investment cost of 900 billion EUR by 2030, H. whereas the decreasing level of oil and gas prices has a negative effect on planned investments, making it necessary to support all major infrastructure projects that contribute to the import of significant gas volumes to Europe, diversifying sources, routes and avoiding transit risks, I. whereas the present economic crisis is further hampering investment in energy infrastructure, J. whereas notwithstanding that the Commission's scenario foresees the decrease of demand of conventional sources in the next two decades, Europe needs to support all planned investments in new import energy infrastructure; whereas this will guarantee