are needed to be member of FIN-NET, one of them being independence [from] the regulator " (Mr DUCOULOMBIER, H9). The Commission aims to fill these geographic gaps by " encouraging " Member States to establish proper ADRs within their respective territories. " We are working very hard to fill these [gaps] to make sure that we cover all financial services in all countries " (Mr DUCOULOMBIER, H9). He pointed out that there are currently no binding rules which oblige Member States to set up alternative dispute resolution schemes. Furthermore, Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9) emphasised the heterogeneity of FIN-NET members in terms of coverage, powers and definition of their respective jurisdictions. " Within FIN-NET, there are Ombudsmen with different roles and responsibilities ..." For instance, in the UK and Ireland, the ombudsman service has a horizontal, comprehensive coverage of all financial services, whereas in other Member States there are different ombudsmen responsible for the various financial services such as banking, insurance or mortgage. Secondly, the powers vary according to Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9): " Some of [the ombudsmen] have almost court-like powers; they can render sentences which are binding on both parties. Some cannot do this. Some will just try to find a bridge between the parties and ... propose an amicable solution ... but they cannot impose anything. ... " Finally, Mr DUCOULOMBIER stressed differences in the definitions of ombudsmen's jurisdiction. For instance, " in the UK the Ombudsman has jurisdiction on cases which are located in the UK or for contracts which were actually handled from the UK ", whereas the German Insurance Ombudsman has jurisdiction only over " complaints about contracts, which had been entered into with a company which [has voluntarily become] a member of the association of German insurance companies ". As regards the Equitable Life case, it should be noted that current financial ombudsman schemes and their predecessors from the UK, Ireland and Germany are (were) parties to FIN-NET. As outlined under points IX 3. and 4. However, the existence of FIN-NET could not prevent certain policyholders, in particular German policyholders who concluded a contract with ELAS branch in Germany, not having access to either the UK Financial Ombudsman Service or their domestic Insurance Ombudsman. As pointed out in ES 3 Page 88. , " the German ombudsman scheme is based on a voluntary system so that the ombudsman only has jurisdiction upon those undertakings which have voluntarily agreed to join the scheme. ... In a situation where a UK company opens a branch in Germany and decides not to join the German ombudsman scheme [like ELAS], a policyholder who purchased a policy through the branch would be unable to bring a complaint for mis-selling an insurance product to the German Ombudsman. The British ombudsman will also refuse to investigate the complaint because the policy was not sold by a company established in the UK . As a result, the policyholder is left out with no access to an out-of-court dispute settlement system " (ES 3 Page 88. ). A similar note was struck by Mr DUCOULOMBIER (H9), who