assets held by the subsidiary undertaking; the home Member State may treat the assets of other subsidiaries in the same way; (ix) deferred acquisition costs may be accepted as cover for technical provisions only to the extent that this is consistent with the calculation of the mathematical provisions. 2. Notwithstanding paragraph 1, in exceptional circumstances and at an assurance undertaking's request, the home Member State may, temporarily and under a properly reasoned decision, accept other categories of assets as cover for technical provisions, subject to Article 20. Link to the ELAS case This article is linked to the case within the terms of paragraph 2, which introduces an escape clause to the closed list of categories of assets enumerated in point 1. According to this provision, “in exceptional circumstances” and “at an assurance undertaking’s request”, the home Member State may “temporarily” and “under a properly reasoned decision” accept other categories of assets as cover for technical provisions. This needs to be seen in the context of Article 25 on the Solvency margin. The issue at hand is whether UK legislation gives the regulator (the Secretary of State) broader powers than those prescribed by the Directive to waive regulations on the admissibility of assets for regulatory purposes. At UK level, under section 68 of the 1982 ICA, the Secretary of State may, upon request or with the consent from an insurer, waive the application of, amongst other things, valuation of assets regulations to that particular company. The exercise of this power is not constrained by the standards mentioned in the Directive (i.e. “exceptional circumstances”, “temporarily”, “under properly reasoned decision”). The provision stipulates that the Secretary of State’s decision “may be subject to conditions”, clearly attributing to the regulator the discretion to decide whether to impose those conditions or not. These powers seem to be broader than those prescribed by the Directive. Such powers entail the risk of being exercised in a very lenient way, undermining the application of harmonized standards. This raises some concerns as to the compatibility of section 68 of the ICA 1982 with the 3LD. See further arguments in the section covering Article 25 on the Solvency margin. Article 25 - Available solvency margin (Articles 18 of 1LD and 27 of CD, also amended by Article 1.4 of Solvency I Directive, 2002/12/EC) Summary of objectives This article imposes the obligation to require from every assurance company an adequate available solvency margin in respect of its entire business at all times. The solvency margin is the value of assets over the amount of foreseeable liabilities, less any intangible items. The article also lays down some conditions on the types of assets, which shall include: the paid-up share capital or, in the case of a mutual, the effective initial fund plus any members' accounts which must meet a series of criteria, viz.: one half of the unpaid share capital or initial fund; reserves; profits brought forward; the cumulative preferential share capital and subordinated loan capital, on an optional basis, and only up to 50 % of the margin; securities with no specified