Answer given by Ms Ferrero-Waldner on behalf of the Commission (17 September 2009) The last time that the Commission raised the issue of Kashmir with the Indian Government was in the context of the local Troika fact-finding mission to Jammu and Kashmir, in which the Commission was represented by its Head of Delegation to India, which took place from 28 February to 3 March 2009. The aim of the mission, which was carried out in agreement with the Indian government, was to assess the situation in Indian-administered Kashmir. During the visit, Troika members had the opportunity to interact with a wide range of stake holders in Jammu and Kashmir, including Chief Minister Omar Abdullah, Opposition People’s Democratic Party leader Mehbooba Mufti, Congress Party Saifuddin Soz and Bharatiya Janata Party state president Khajuria. The delegation also met All Party Hurriyat Conference leader Mirwaiz Umar Farooq and Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front Leader, Yasin Malik. Meetings also took place with Governor N. N. Vohra (former EU‑India Round Table Co-Chairman), the military (Army XV Corps Commander), government officials (including the Director-General of Police), and a number of civil society representatives including Jammu and Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society founder, Parvez Imroz. In Jammu, the delegation met representatives of the Kashmiri Pandits. The status on the proposed reform of the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) was brought up with all interlocutors in the framework of discussions on armed insurgency and the rise of infiltrations along the Line of Control. While the military and the Governor have made it clear that the scrapping of the AFSPA as well as a reduction of troops would be very difficult and premature, Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Omar Abdullah seemed to be favourable to it as well as the Home Minister. The media unanimously advocates the scrapping of the AFSPA in view of the overall improvement of the situation on the ground. With regard to the strategy to help resolve the conflict in Kashmir, the EU has always advocated a bilateral solution to the issue. The EU fully supports the peace process and has consistently encouraged both sides to proceed with substantive Confidence-Building Measures.