Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 (15) Before designating the applicable law, it is important for spouses to have access to up-to-date information concerning the essential aspects of national and Union law and of the procedures governing divorce and legal separation. To guarantee such access to appropriate, good-quality information, the Commission regularly updates it in the Internet-based public information system set up by Council Decision 2001/470/EC. (15) Before designating the applicable law, it is important for spouses to have access to up-to-date information concerning the essential aspects of national and Union law and of the procedures governing divorce and legal separation. To guarantee such access to appropriate, good-quality information, the Commission regularly updates it in the Internet-based public information system set up by Decision 2001/470/EC , as amended by Decision No 568/2009/EC . Amendment 15 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 a (new) (15a) If the spouses are unable to agree on the applicable law, they should complete a mediation procedure including at least one consultation with an authorised mediator. Amendment 16 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 (16) The informed choice of the two spouses is a basic principle of this Regulation. Each spouse should know exactly what are the legal and social implications of the choice of applicable law. The possibility of choosing the applicable law by common agreement should be without prejudice to the rights of, and equal opportunities for, the two spouses. Hence judges in the Member States should be aware of the importance of an informed choice on the part of the two spouses concerning the legal implications of the choice-of-law agreement concluded. (16) The informed choice of the spouses is a basic principle of this Regulation. Each spouse should know exactly what are the legal and social implications of the choice of applicable law. The possibility of choosing the applicable law by common agreement should be without prejudice to the rights of, and equal opportunities for, the spouses. Hence judges in the participating Member States should be aware of the importance of an informed choice on the part of the spouses concerning the legal implications of the choice-of-law agreement concluded. Amendment 17 Proposal for a regulation Recital 17 (17) Certain safeguards should be introduced to ensure that spouses are aware of the implications of their choice. The agreement on the choice of applicable law should at least be expressed in writing, dated and signed by both parties. However, if the law of the participating Member State in which the two spouses have their habitual residence lays down additional formal rules, those rules must be complied with. For example, such additional formal rules may exist in a participating Member State where the agreement is inserted in a marriage contract. (17) Rules on material and formal validity should be defined so that the informed choice of the spouses is facilitated and that their consent is respected with a view to ensuring legal certainty as well as better access to justice. As far as formal validity is concerned, certain safeguards should be introduced to ensure that spouses are aware