(4) The European Parliament has adopted a resolution and produced a report 1 concerning the Commission communications on accelerated action on the main communicable diseases in the context of poverty reduction. 1 A5-0263/2001 . deleted Justification See amendment 1 Amendment 3 Recital 6 6. In connection with its communications to the Council and the European Parliament of 20 September 2000 and 21 February 2001, the Commission has presented an action programme aimed at combating the global problem of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis and identifying various strategies to be implemented. This action programme has a research and development part aimed among other things at developing, in coordination with the application of this decision, new clinical interventions to combat the three diseases through a long term partnership between Europe and the developing countries. 6. In connection with its communications to the Council and the European Parliament of 20 September 2000 and 21 February 2001, the Commission has presented an action programme aimed at combating the global problem of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis and identifying various strategies to be implemented. This programme has various closely linked and interdependent parts: promoting prevention, encouraging treatment and making essential medicinal products more affordable, and stepping up research and development . The research and development part is aimed among other things at developing, in coordination with the application of this decision, new clinical interventions to combat the three diseases and their contributing factors in the target populations through a long term partnership between Europe and the developing countries. The R&D part of the action programme is also intended to promote the development of global public goods which will enable the diseases in question to be tackled . Justification The EDCTP cannot be envisaged without some specific reference to the action programme designed to combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. The initiative stems directly from that programme, which establishes the purposes that the initiative is intended to serve: to make treatment more effective, to make products affordable and to step up R&D with a view to framing an adequate response to the problem of poverty-related diseases in developing countries. Amendment 4 Recital 6a (new) (6a) The Council, in its resolution of 15 May 2001, and the European Parliament, in its Resolution of 4 October 2001, both endorsed this Programme for Action: accelerated action on HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis in the context of poverty reduction. Justification The Programme for Action on the three major communicable diseases has been endorsed by Council and Parliament and must be referred. Amendment 5 Recital 6b (new) (6b) According to the Programme for Action, successful product development requires equal attention to clinical trials capacity, community preparedness and regulatory approval mechanisms. In a broader framework, successful product use by developing countries will require attention to manufacturing and supply issues, the development of delivery infrastructure and financing mechanisms for purchase and delivery. Justification The EDCTP results directly from the Programme for Action which defines the global framework in which the initiative has to placed: efficiency of the interventions, render medicines more affordable and intensify R&D in view of building