Answer given by Mrs Reding on behalf of the Commission (11 September 2007) 1. The Commission adopted on 18 July a Communication on ‘Strengthening the Internal market for mobile TV’ COM(2007)409 final. , where it presents its strategy for a successful take-up of these innovative services in the EU. A key element lies in creating a favourable environment that will enable operators to reap the benefits of the internal market and to achieve the necessary economies of scale. Agreeing on a common standard for mobile TV would provide important advantages for European consumers and industry. It would give all actors in the mobile TV value chain certainty concerning technological decisions. This would help to attain critical mass, ensuring the sustainability for the mobile TV business cases. Currently in Europe, there is a risk of fragmentation in the internal market due to the presence of several mobile TV technologies for different platform. This implies that the benefits of the internal market cannot be reaped. Looking at the present situation, the Commission considers that Digital Video Broadcasting-Handheld (DVB-H) appears to be the strongest contender for the successful introduction and take-up of terrestrial broadcast mobile TV services in the EU. This is by reason of its compatibility with DVB-Terrestrial (T), the standard used everywhere in Europe for terrestrial TV broadcast, as well as its wide use in Europe where 25 trials and two commercial launches are based on this technology. In order to promote consensus around DVB-H, the Commission intends to prepare the necessary steps to add DVB-H to the list of standards published in the Official Journal. This implies that Member States would be required to encourage the use of DVB-H on their territory. The Commission will continue to monitor the situation in the EU and may come forward with proposals by mid‑2008 including, if appropriate, steps to make an open standard mandatory. 2. The creation of the European Mobile Broadcasting Council (EMBC) responded to a call to industry in 2006 to develop recommendations for the introduction of mobile broadcasting in Europe. The EMBC issued its final recommendations in March 2007. EMBC recommendations on spectrum and regulatory aspects have largely been taken into account in the abovementioned Communication. The EMBC stated that ‘a single standard for mobile broadcasting across Europe could deliver significant economies of scale’ but did not propose a common standard.