consideration should be given to the suggestions from TEPSA designed to encourage transparency and broader participation in the decision-making process for economic and social policy (policy mix) at European level, both through more systematic involvement of national parliaments and closer coordination between the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, as well as through more timely information on the budget policies of national governments, to ensure that their consistency with the broad economic policy guidelines proposed by the Commission can be assessed before individual governments take decisions which cannot subsequently be altered. OPINION OF THE COMMITTEE ON EMPLOYMENT AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the Commission recommendation for the 2002 Broad Guidelines of the Economic Policies of the Member States and the Community ( COM(2002) 191 – C5‑ 0191/2002 – 2002/2075(COS)) Draftsman (*): Herman Schmid (*) Hughes Procedure PROCEDURE The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs appointed Herman Schmid draftsman at its meeting of 24 January 2002. It considered the draft opinion at its meetings of 19 March 2002 and 16/17 April 2002. At the latter meeting it adopted the following conclusions by unanimously. The following were present for the vote: Marie-Hélène Gillig, acting chairperson; Winfried Menrad and Marie-Thérèse Hermange, vice-chairpersons; Herman Schmid, draftsman; Sylviane H. Ainardi, Jan Andersson, Elspeth Attwooll, Hans Udo Bullmann (for Enrico Boselli), Philip Bushill-Matthews, Alejandro Cercas, Luigi Cocilovo, Harald Ettl, Jillian Evans, Carlo Fatuzzo, Ilda Figueiredo, Hélène Flautre, Fiorella Ghilardotti (for Elisa Maria Damião), Anne-Karin Glase, Lisbeth Grönfeldt Bergman (for Regina Bastos), Richard Howitt (for Proinsias De Rossa), Stephen Hughes, Dieter-Lebrecht Koch (for Enrico Ferri), Ioannis Koukiadis (for Karin Jöns), Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, Elizabeth Lynne, Thomas Mann, Mario Mantovani, Helmuth Markov (for Arlette Laguiller, pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Claude Moraes, Gérard Onesta (for Jean Lambert, pursuant to Rule 153(2)), Manuel Pérez Álvarez, Bartho Pronk, Lennart Sacrédeus, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Ieke van den Burg and Barbara Weiler. SHORT JUSTIFICATION Your draftsman finds himself in the uncomfortable position of having to draft this Opinion on the Broad Economic Policy Guidelines 2002 (BEPG) before the Commission has published its respective proposal. Nevertheless, some observations concerning the changed conditions for economic and employment policies in the European Union seem to be obvious. Firstly, revitalised economic growth in Europe during the period 1998 to mid 2000 or 2001 has come to a halt. Today, the USA, the European Union and Japan simultaneously face an economic stagnation or even recession. Forecasts by Economic Research Institutes suggest a growth rate for the European Monetary Union of 1.1% for 2002 (compared to 3.4% in 2000 and 1.6% in 2001). There is some chance of for an economic recovery starting in Autumn 2002, but again some forecasts consider a possible recovery to be much weaker than in the period 1998 to mid 2001. Thus, the achievement of the Lisbon goal of full employment by 2010, which would depend mainly on an average annual growth rate of 3% in the European Union, is put into question. Unemployment is rising again in quite a number of Member