account the anticipated yield on future assets. The prudential margin and the maximum rate or rates of interest applied to the anticipated yield on future assets shall be fixed by the competent authority of the home Member State; (b) the establishment of a maximum rate of interest shall not imply that the undertaking is bound to use a rate as high as that; (c) the home Member State may decide not to apply (a) to the following categories of contracts: - unit-linked contracts, - single-premium contracts for a period of up to eight years, - without-profits contracts, and annuity contracts with no surrender value. In the cases referred to in the last two indents of the first subparagraph, in choosing a prudent rate of interest, account may be taken of the currency in which the contract is denominated and corresponding assets currently held and where the undertaking's assets are valued at their current value, the anticipated yield on future assets. Under no circumstances may the rate of interest used be higher than the yield on assets as calculated in accordance with the accounting rules in the home Member State , less an appropriate deduction; (d) the Member State shall require an undertaking to set aside in its accounts a provision to meet interest-rate commitments vis-à-vis policy-holders if the present or foreseeable yield on the undertaking's assets is insufficient to cover those commitments; (e) the Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States which so request shall be notified of the maximum rates of interest set under (a). C. The statistical elements of the valuation and the allowance for expenses used shall be chosen prudently, having regard to the State of the commitment, the type of policy and the administrative costs and commissions expected to be incurred. D. In the case of participating contracts, the method of calculation for technical provisions may take into account, either implicitly or explicitly, future bonuses of all kinds, in a manner consistent with the other assumptions on future experience and with the current method of distribution of bonuses. E. Allowance for future expenses may be made implicitly, for instance by the use of future premiums net of management charges. However, the overall allowance, implicit or explicit, shall be not less than a prudent estimate of the relevant future expenses. F. The method of calculation of technical provisions shall not be subject to discontinuities from year to year arising from arbitrary changes to the method or the bases of calculation and shall be such as to recognize the distribution of profits in an appropriate way over the duration of each policy. 2. Assurance undertakings shall make available to the public the bases and methods used in the calculation of the technical provisions, including provisions for bonuses. 3. The home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to cover the technical provisions in respect of its entire business by matching assets, in accordance with Article 24 of Directive 92/96/EEC. In respect of business written in the Community, these assets must be localized within the Community. Member States shall