examination, the results of which should be made available for research and further development purposes in the interests of patient safety and implant-toleration; 14. Recognises that patients who have already received breast implants may need retrospective information, advice and medical supervision, to screen for cancer and intra- and extra-capsular rupture; points out that for this purpose the use of medical imaging techniques such as scanning, magnetic resonance and echography help surveillance and the accuracy of diagnosis; 15. Recommends the fostering of tolerance and self-esteem and other conceptual alternatives to breast implants, in collaboration with active groups in this field; 16. Urges Member States to concentrate on promoting and securing acceptance of the image of women as they actually are by running positive information campaigns, rather than allowing unregulated advertising practices to impose an ideal conception of beauty as the norm; 17. Calls for alternative methods of operating to maintain breast structure using the body's own tissues to be made better known and more widely promoted; 18. Points out that where Member States apply minimum age limit for the implantation procedure that reconstructive surgery on medical grounds is sometimes necessary at an early age; 19. Urges Member States to prohibit (following the example set by France) advertising direct to the general public for breast implants or breast implant operations (surgical treatment); and instead to disseminate objective, non-commercial information through their national public health services, in particular - but not exclusively - on the Internet; in any case, in order to avoid incorrect and misleading information there is a need to regulate the advertising in some Member States, which is fuelling the demand for implants without providing any balanced information, and proposes that advertising of ‘cosmetic surgery’ breast implants should contain a statement that relevant information is available and carry clear bold health warnings; 20. Urges that ‘Before and after’ pictures should not be used in such advertisements; 21. Recommends urgently that details of breast implant operations should be recorded in the EU by compulsory National Breast Implant Registration in each Member State; calls on Member States to subscribe to the International Breast Implant Register (IBIR) and to assume the costs incurred for national subscription to the international register; 22. Considers that national breast-implant registers are essential as a means of enabling both producers and patients to be traced (in the event of implants being identified as defective it will, in particular, be essential for them to be traceable to the patients concerned after the operation); points out that every effort will have to be made in that connection to ensure compliance with existing provisions on protecting personal privacy in the processing of personal data, and that access to the registers will have to be restricted and their contents treated as confidential; 23. Proposes that manufacturers should supply only to surgeons who observe the European register; an independent monitoring body should monitor this and the results of the monitoring should be published; 24. Also calls for a sound certification procedure for practitioners, to reduce the damage to health from incorrect operations; 25. Considers that,