the Council minutes when it adopts the common position, the reasons which led the Council to adopt its common position and the Commission's position, duly translated into the official languages of the European Union. The President's announcement shall be made during the part-session following the receipt of such documents. Before making the announcement, the President shall establish, after consulting the chair of the committee responsible and/or the rapporteur, that the text received is indeed a common position and that the circumstances described in Rule 55 do not apply. Failing this, the President, together with the committee responsible and, where possible, in agreement with the Council, shall seek an appropriate solution. 2. A list of such communications shall be published in the minutes of the sitting together with the name of the committee responsible. Rule 58 Extension of time limits 1. The President shall, at the request of the chair of the committee responsible in the case of time limits for second reading, or at the request of Parliament's conciliation delegation in the case of time limits for conciliation, extend the limits in question pursuant to Article 251(7) of the EC Treaty. For any extension of time limits pursuant to Article 252(g) of the EC Treaty or Article 39(1) of the EU Treaty the President shall seek the agreement of the Council. 2. The President shall notify Parliament of any extension of time limits pursuant to Article 251(7) of the EC Treaty, whether at the initiative of Parliament or of the Council. 3. The President, after consulting the chair of the committee responsible, may agree to a Council request to extend any time limits pursuant to Article 252(g) of the EC Treaty. Rule 59 Referral to and procedure in the committee responsible 1. On the day of its communication to Parliament pursuant to Rule 57(1), the common position shall be deemed to have been referred automatically to the committee responsible and to the committees asked for their opinion at first reading. 2. The common position shall be entered as the first item on the agenda of the first meeting of the committee responsible following the date of its communication. The Council may be invited to present the common position. 3. Unless otherwise decided, the rapporteur during second reading shall be the same as during first reading. 4. The provisions for Parliament's second reading in Rule 62(2), (3) and (5) shall apply to the proceedings in the committee responsible; only members or permanent substitutes of that committee may table proposals for rejection and amendments. The committee shall decide by a majority of the votes cast. 5. Before voting, the committee may request the chair and rapporteur to discuss amendments that have been tabled in the committee with the President of the Council or the latter's representative and with the Commissioner responsible present. The rapporteur may table compromise amendments following such discussion. 6. The committee responsible shall submit a recommendation for second reading proposing the approval, amendment or rejection of the common position adopted by the Council. The recommendation shall include a short justification for