April 2001, on a proposal from its Committee on Budgetary Control, the European Parliament postponed the discharge for implementation of the sixth, seven and eighth European Development Funds for the 1999 financial year European Parliament resolution on the discharge in respect of implementation of the sixth, seven and eighth European Development Funds for the 1999 financial year, see minutes of the sitting of 4 April 2001, Texts adopted. . The main reason for postponing the discharge was the significant delay in forwarding information on part of the Commission. During the previous discharge procedure in respect of the 1998 financial year Paragraph 1 of its resolution of 13 April 2000on the postponement of discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 1998, OJ C 40, 7.2.2001, p. 383. , Parliament had asked for a full list of the administrative and/or disciplinary enquiries which needed to be carried out in the light of audits of structural adjustment programmes, and other development assistance. In response to this request, the Commission set up a committee of inquiry headed by the Internal Audit Service which was to conduct a thorough administrative inquiry into the effectiveness of monitoring arrangements. On 21 December 2000 the Commission announced that the Internal Audit Service's report would be available by the end of February 2001. It was then said that the report could not be completed on time. In connection with the administrative inquiry referred to above, the Commission had also promised to produce a list of the cases in which the Anti-Fraud Office OLAF had been called in. This list was not provided until 7 March 2001. In addition, it was forwarded with the instructions that it was intended solely for the committee chairman and rapporteur but not for the other members of the committee. By letter of 9 July 2001 the Commissioner responsible, Poul Nielsen, forwarded the Internal Audit Service's report "Report on the management, monitoring and control arrangements governing the use of counterpart funds and budgetary support in development aid ", of 4 July 2001, available only in English. to the committee. At its meeting of 10 July 2001 the Committee on Budgetary Control held a wide-ranging discussion with Mr Brüner, Director of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF). On that occasion, OLAF's general strategy for dealing with cases of fraud in the Development Funds was discussed, along with specific cases. On 10 September 2001 the committee also had the opportunity to examine the Court of Auditors' Special Report No 5/2001 on counterpart funds from structural adjustment support earmarked for budget aid OJ. C 257, 14.9.2001, p.1. . As a result, the committee has at its disposal all the information it considers necessary to recommend that discharge should now be granted to the Commission.