rates, commodities or other indices or measures; 7. Contracts for differences or other derivative instruments for transfer of credit risk. ANNEX II PROFESSIONAL CLIENTS FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS DIRECTIVE I. Categories of client who are considered to be professionals The following should all be regarded as professionals in all investment services and instruments for the purposes of the Directive. A professional is deemed to possess the experience, knowledge and expertise to make his own investment decisions and properly assess the risks he incurs. 1. Entities which are required to be authorised or regulated to operate in the financial markets. The list below should be understood as including all authorised entities carrying out the characteristic activities of the entities mentioned: entities authorised by a Member State under a European Directive, entities authorised or regulated by a Member State without reference to a European Directive, and entities authorised or regulated by a non-Member State: (a) Credit institutions (b) Investment firms (c) Other authorised or regulated financial institutions (d) Insurance companies (e) Collective investment schemes and management companies of such schemes (f) Pension funds and management companies of such funds (g) Commodity dealers. 2. Large companies, charitable trusts and other institutional investors: a) large companies and partnerships meeting two of the following size requirements on a company basis: – balance sheet total: EUR 12 500 000, – net turnover: EUR 25 000 000, – own funds: EUR 2 000 000. (b) Other institutional investors whose corporate purpose is to invest in financial instruments. 3. National and regional governments, Central Banks, international and supranational institutions such as the World Bank, the IMF, the ECB, the EIB and other similar international organisations. The entities mentioned above are considered to be professionals. Where the client of an investment firm is a company or a partnership referred to above, the investment firm must inform it prior to any provision of services that, on the basis of the information available to the firm, the client is deemed to be professional client, and will be treated as such unless the firm and the client agree otherwise. It is the responsibility of the client, considered to be a professional client, to ask for a higher level of protection when it deems it is unable to properly assess or manage the risks involved. This higher level of protection will be provided when a client who is considered to be a professional enters into a written agreement with the investment firm to the effect that it shall not be treated as a professional for the purposes of the applicable conduct of business regime. Such agreement should specify whether this applies to one or more particular services or transactions, or to one or more types of product or transaction. II. Clients who may be treated as professionals on request 1. Identification criteria Clients other than those mentioned in section I, including public sector bodies and private individual investors, may also be allowed to waive some of the protections afforded by the conduct of business rules. Investment firms should therefore be allowed to treat any