aid of impact assessments and for an evaluation of the long-term option of establishing a single European financial supervisory authority, unifying under its umbrella the current European supervisory authorities and the European Systemic Risk Board; 41. Stresses the need for a single European Minister of Finance, possibly drawn from the Commission, in keeping with the proposal made by Jean-Claude Trichet in Aachen on 2 June 2011; believes that the issue of the democratic legitimacy of such a proposal must be properly addressed; notes, in that connection, that in a monetary union fiscal policy does not only concern the Member States, but has many cross-border spillovers and that the present crisis has revealed the limits of 100% decentralised fiscal policies; believes that the single European Minister of Finance should be democratically accountable to the European Parliament; stresses that a further step of this kind towards a fiscal union based on the Community method requires enhanced democratic ownership and a potential Treaty revision in the long term, but recognises that the current framework allows for stronger economic governance in the short term; 42. Stresses the need for a single European Treasury to relieve the ECB of its quasi-fiscal role; takes the view that this European Treasury could be established by means of a change to the EU Treaty; 43. Welcomes the fact that the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) has been given the right to purchase government bonds on the secondary market, as this could relieve the pressure on the ECB in the current circumstances; 44. Deplores, in that connection, the fact that the ESM has been established outside the EU Treaties, and therefore calls on the Commission to propose a permanent crisis management mechanism based on Community rules (e.g. a European Monetary Fund); 45. Emphasises the absolute need to quickly implement and apply the provisions of the economic governance package; in that connection, calls for the consistent and balanced application of the European Stability and Growth Pact and an automatic mechanism for the imposition of sanctions on countries which run budget deficits ; 46. Is looking forward to the submission before the end of 2011 of the Commission report on the setting-up of a system for the common issuance of European sovereign bonds, or euro securities, on the basis of joint and several liability, accompanied by legislative proposals if appropriate; External d imension 47. As the ECB, the IMF and the Commission work together on missions in some Member States, calls on the Commission to put forward proposals for a single external representation of the euro area, in accordance with Article 138 of the TFEU, particularly in the IMF; Transparency and accountability 48. Recommends that the ECB enhance the transparency of its work in order to increase its legitimacy and predictability; reiterates its long-standing call for the summaries of minutes of meetings of the Governing Council to be made public; 49. Calls, in line with the Court of Auditors' reports, for more transparency and accountability when it comes to the documentation of decisions concerning the recruitment procedures and salaries and bonus reviews; 50. Welcomes