propose by common accord the nominees for the various posts of Commissioners. 4. If Parliament does not approve the nomination, the President shall request the Council to nominate a new candidate. Rule 99 Election of the Commission 1. The President shall, after consulting the President-elect of the Commission, request the nominees proposed by the President-elect of the Commission and the Council for the various posts of Commissioners to appear before the appropriate committees according to their prospective fields of responsibility. These hearings shall be held in public. 2. The appropriate committee or committees shall invite the Commissioner-designate to make a statement and answer questions. The hearings shall be organised in such a way as to enable Commissioners-designate to disclose to Parliament all relevant information. Provisions relating to the organisation of the hearings shall be laid down in an annex to the Rules of Procedure See Annex XVI b. . 3. The President-elect shall present the College of Commissioners and their programme at a sitting of Parliament which the whole Council shall be invited to attend. The statement shall be followed by a debate. 4. In order to wind up the debate, any political group or at least forty Members may table a motion for a resolution. Rule 103(3), (4) and (5) shall apply. Following the vote on the motion for a resolution, Parliament shall elect or reject the Commission by a majority of the votes cast. The vote shall be taken by roll call. Parliament may defer the vote until the next sitting. 5. The President shall inform the Council of the election or rejection of the Commission. 6. In the event of a substantial portfolio change during the Commission's term of office, the filling of a vacancy or the appointment of a new Commissioner following the accession of a new Member State, the Commissioners concerned shall be invited to appear before the committees responsible for the areas of responsibility in question in accordance with paragraph 2. Rule 100 Motion of censure on the Commission 1. A motion of censure on the Commission may be submitted to the President by one tenth of the component Members of Parliament. 2. The motion shall be called 'motion of censure' and supported by reasons. It shall be forwarded to the Commission. 3. The President shall announce to Members that a motion of censure has been tabled immediately after having received it. 4. The debate on censure shall not take place until at least twenty-four hours after the receipt of a motion of censure is announced to Members. 5. The vote on the motion shall be by roll call and shall not be taken until at least forty-eight hours after the beginning of the debate. 6. The debate and the vote shall take place, at the latest, during the part-session following the submission of the motion. 7. The motion of censure shall be adopted if it secures a two-thirds majority of the votes cast, representing a majority of the component Members of Parliament. The result of the vote shall be notified to the President of the