Answer given by Mr Dimas on behalf of the Commission (28 September 2006) The co-existence between genetically modified (GM) and non-GM or conventional crops is an economic issue, which is regulated according to the subsidiarity principle. Member States have the possibility to take appropriate measures to ensure the co-existence of GM crops with non-GM crop production. In 2003, the Commission adopted a Recommendation Commission Recommendation of 23 July 2003 on guidelines for the development of national strategies and best practices to ensure the coexistence of genetically modified crops with conventional and organic farming, OJ L 189, 29.7.2003. which is aimed to help the Member States in developing their national approaches to co-existence, and which contains general principles which should be taken into account in this process. Several Member States have adopted co-existence legislation or are in the process of preparing legislation. The Commission continues to assess national measures on co-existence that have to be notified before adoption at national level. In March 2006, the Commission adopted a report on the implementation of national measures on the co-existence of genetically modified crops with conventional and organic farming COM(2006)104 final. . In this report, the Commission proposes a number of future actions that could be taken in this area. Furthermore, in May 2006, the Council adopted conclusions on co-existence, which calls on the Commission to engage in certain actions in relation to co-existence. The Commission is currently considering the best way to implement its self-commitments and the mandate provided by the Council. Among the activities currently undertaken by the Commission in this regard is the continued work of the specific coordination network on co-existence (COEX-NET), which provides a forum for the Member States to exchange experiences and best practices in relation to co-existence. Furthermore, the Commission has commissioned a study on the application of different national liability and compensation systems that apply in the case of potential damage that may result from the adventitious presence of GMOs in non‑GM crops. Concerning the orientation debate that was held by the Commission on 12 April 2006, some practical actions were indicated which could be directly applied without introducing any modification to the current legal framework. The objective of these measures is to improve scientific consistency and transparency in the procedures for authorisation of GMOs, thus increasing Member States and stakeholders' confidence in the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and more generally in the authorisation scheme. A number of these measures are related to risk assessment practices, asking EFSA to better liaise with the national competent authorities and to provide more detailed justification on the way their scientific objections have been taken into account. Other measures focus more on the decision making process itself and the risk management phase. Consistent with this approach, the Commission is working together with EFSA and the Member States on the implementation of the conclusions of the College debate.