an equal footing, when the EU's current capacity and comparative advantages are far superior, are not realistic. Article 208 of the Lisbon treaty of course obliges the EU to "take account of the objectives of development cooperation in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries." This means a commitment from the EU to avoid policy choices that undermine its work in the field of development cooperation and, indeed, to pursue actions, across the policy spectrum, that will benefit developing countries. This applies par excellence to trade. It is also essential that the Commission, under Parliament's scrutiny, monitors closely and strictly beneficiary countries' ongoing adherence to the criteria rendering them eligible for GSP+. The Commission currently carries out a Sustainable Impact Assessment for GSP. Parliament should ask the Commission to inform it on the terms of reference, the results and lessons learnt from this assessment, as well as its future intentions as regard the implementation of SIA under the new GSP scheme. Your rapporteur believes firmly in the need for a global trading system based on ethics, democracy and transparency not solely profit, a system which benefits society as a whole and not just a limited number of businesses. Upholding internationally-agreed standards on human rights, labour standards, the environment and governance is a vital element of GSP+, one which may indeed need to be tightened up in future. Therefore, close supervision of sectors such as fisheries, forestry and mining, to name but a few, as well as the treatment of women and minorities as regards access to labour markets and working conditions is extremely necessary. In the interests of democracy and transparency, it is also important that any consultations with beneficiary countries regarding ongoing respect of the GSP+ criteria include a dialogue with national parliaments and local civil society actors. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Development calls on the Committee on International Trade, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following amendments in its report: Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation– amending act Article 1 - point 1 a (new) Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 Recital 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1a) A new recital is inserted after recital 2: (2a) The EU is obliged to take account of the objectives of development cooperation in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries and therefore the GSP scheme must contribute to the EU's development objectives, including attainment of the MDGs . Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation– amending act Article 1 – point 1 a (new) Regulation (EC) No 732/2008 Article 5 - paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (1a) Article 5(2) is replaced by the following: “ For the purposes of the arrangements referred to in Article 1(2), the rules of origin concerning the definition of the concept of originating products, the procedures and the methods of administrative cooperation related thereto, shall be those laid down in Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93. The form, substance and procedures of the system of rules of origin shall be subject to regular revision