– part I – point 5 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 5. Methodologies, models and key rating assumptions as well as their material changes; 5. Methodologies, and descriptions of models and key mathematical, correlation and other assumptions as well as their material changes; Amendment 16 6 Proposal for a regulation Annex I – Section E – part II – point 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. On a yearly basis the following information: deleted a) a list of the largest 20 clients of the credit rating agency by revenue; b) a list of those clients of the credit rating agency whose contribution to the growth rate in the revenue of the credit rating agency in the previous financial year exceeded the growth rate in the total revenues of the credit rating agency in that year by a factor of more than 1.5 times; each such client shall only be included on this list where in that year it accounted for more than 0.25 % of the worldwide total revenues of the credit rating agency at global level. For the purposes of the first subparagraph of point 2 "client" shall mean a company, its subsidiaries, and associated companies in which the company has holdings of more than 20 %, as well as any other entities in respect of which it has negotiated the structuring of a debt issue on behalf of a client and where a fee was paid, directly or indirectly, to the credit rating agency for the rating of that debt issue. Amendment 1 67 Proposal for a regulation Annex II – paragraph 2 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment 2. name and contact details of a contact person ; 2. name and contact details of the compliance officer as defined in Annex I ; EXPLANATORY STATEMENT It has been made necessary to draw up a regulation on credit rating agencies because of the inadequacies and failures noted in the issuing and monitoring of credit ratings issued by credit rating agencies. It is clear that these inadequacies and failures have partially contributed to the current global financial crisis. Credit rating agencies, which constitute a de facto oligopoly, have clearly underestimated the credit risk inherent particularly in structured credit products and have not adapted their ratings when the markets have fallen. The reasons for these failures, which have had such momentous consequences, are certainly many and varied: inadequate models, laxity, conflicts of interest, analysts' qualifications, method of governance, absence of real monitoring of credit ratings' quality. Yet, in practice, whatever the main agencies try to argue, the credit ratings given are not regarded by finance professionals and investors as mere opinions intended to inform them, but as serious - and indeed often unique - references which for them are the most important information for investment decisions. In addition, credit ratings have a regulatory function, recognised by the Community texts applicable to credit and insurance institutions etc. Against this background, it is timely and justified that credit rating agencies should be subject to strict regulation and no longer simply to