to permit easier identification of these products on the market so as to facilitate checks. A reasonable length of time should be allowed for operators to adjust to this obligation. (5) The labelling of agricultural products and foodstuffs is subject to the general rules laid down in Directive 2000/13/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs. In view of their specific nature, additional special provisions should be adopted for agricultural products and foodstuffs from a specified geographical area. The use of the indications and Community symbols concerned should also be made obligatory in the case of Community designations, on the one hand, to make this category of products and the guarantees attached to them better known to consumers and, on the other, to permit easier identification of these products on the market so as to facilitate checks. To this end, and as a result of such obligation, the Community symbols associated with the various indications should be properly differentiated from each other, so as to ensure that there is a clear link between the indication and its specific symbol. A reasonable length of time should be allowed for operators to adjust to this obligation. Amendment 3 Recital 5 a (new) (5a) In the light of the extension of the scope of this Regulation to third-country products and in order to ensure that there is no risk of consumer confusion between the Community symbol and the origin of a product, the place of origin and the place of processing agricultural products or foodstuffs marketed under a registered name should be indicated on the label. Amendment 4 Recital 6 a (new) (6a) The strengthening of Community policy on designations of origin and geographical indications requires, in addition to the clarification and simplification referred to in this Regulation, the negotiation of a multilateral register under the auspices of the WTO, with the objective of ensuring the durability of that policy. Amendment 42 Recital 12 (12) The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement 1994, contained in Annex 1C to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation) contains detailed provisions on the existence, acquisition, scope, maintenance and enforcement of intellectual property rights. (12) The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement 1994, contained in Annex 1C to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation) contains detailed provisions on the existence, acquisition, scope, maintenance and enforcement of intellectual property rights. For the European Union, the importance of the protection of intellectual property in world trade is constantly increasing. Geographical indications and designations of origin play a special role in this connection and hence, in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the Doha Development Agenda, it is essential to ensure that international protection of geographical indications and designations of origin is broadened to cover an increasingly large number of agricultural products. Amendment 6 Recital 13 (13) The protection afforded by this Regulation, subject to registration, should be