are in direct contact with issuers . Therefore those analysts should be subject to a mandatory rotation mechanism. Amendment 1 4 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14) Credit rating agencies should use rating methodologies that are rigorous, systematic, and continuous and result in ratings that may be subject to validation based on historical experience. Credit rating agencies should ensure that methodologies, models and key rating assumptions used for determining credit ratings are properly maintained, up-to-date and subject to a comprehensive review on a periodic basis. In cases where the lack of reliable data or the complexity of the structure of a new type, in particular structured finance instruments, raises serious questions as to whether the credit rating agency can produce a credible credit rating, the credit rating agency should refrain from issuing a credit rating or withdraw an existing credit rating . (14) Credit rating agencies should use rating methodologies that are rigorous, systematic, and continuous , and should result in well-founded and solidly substantiated ratings that may be subject to validation including by appropriate historical experience. Credit rating agencies should ensure that methodologies, models and key mathematical, correlation and other assumptions used for determining credit ratings are properly maintained, up-to-date and subject to a comprehensive review on a periodic basis and descriptions are published in a manner so as to permit academic review . In cases where the lack of reliable data or the complexity of the structure of a new type, in particular structured finance instruments, raises serious questions as to whether the credit rating agency can produce a credible credit rating, the credit rating agency should not issue a credit rating. Changes in the quality of information available for monitoring an existing rating sh ould be publicised with that review and, if appropriate, a revision of th at rating should be made. Amendment 1 5 Proposal for a regulation Recital 14 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (14a) Issuers sh ould make available information provided to credit rating agencies to those who request it for the purpose of independent analysis. Recipients of such information sh ould agree in advance neither to relay it to the public nor to trade in the relevant securities. Justification The regulation should require issuers to make available to others the same information as is used by the credit rating agencies in reaching their judgement. Making the information available would create the opportunity for a market to develop in truly independent ratings not paid for by the issuer. Increasing the availability of information is the course of regulatory action most likely to result in genuine competition to the credit rating agencies. Amendment 1 6 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15) In order to ensure the quality of ratings , a credit rating agency should take measures to ensure that the information it use in assigning a rating is reliable. For this purpose, a credit rating agency may envisage, among other elements reliance on independently audited financial statements and public