special means, procedures, mechanisms or arrangements are most suited to the defence of their rights and interests . (Amendment 33) Article 4(2) 2. Victims" right to receive information shall continue throughout the procedure, in particular after judgment has been given, in a manner appropriate to the proper conduct of the procedure, while leaving victims the option of declining to be kept informed. 2. Member States shall guarantee that every victim of a crime is kept informed: (a) of the action taken on his complaint or suit; (b) of the relevant elements enabling him to follow the course of the penal procedure, where it is taken out against the person, persons or organisation responsible for the crime against him, other than concerning such exceptional elements as might impede the normal conduct of the procedure; (c) of the judgment given by the legal authorities. (Amendment 34) Article 4(2a) (new) 2a. Member States shall adopt the necessary measures to ensure that in cases where the victim may be at risk he is informed of the release of the person arrested or sentenced for the crime against him and of any other circumstance that might give special cause for concern. (Amendment 35) Article 4(2b) (new) 2b. Member States shall guarantee the right of the victim to decline the information referred to in paragraphs 2 and 2a above, except where its provision is explicitly required under the criminal law applying to the case. (Amendment 36) Article 5 In the same way as for defendants, Member States shall take the necessary measures to prevent language difficulties, or inadequate powers of expression or comprehension, from impeding either victims" direct or indirect understanding of important steps in the procedure or any involvement of victims in such steps, particularly through the use of appropriate interpreting and communication facilities. In the same way as for defendants, Member States shall adopt the necessary measures to guarantee the interpreting and communication facilities required to ensure that the victim can fully understand and participate in the procedure and can testify in the penal procedure, with the right to use any of the official languages of the European Union for this purpose. (Amendment 37) Article 7 Member States shall not require victims to pay any legal costs or shall arrange for the possibility of having such costs refunded . Member States shall not require victims to pay any legal costs. (Amendment 38) Article 8(1) 1. Member States shall ensure a suitable level of protection for crime victims and their families or persons in a similar position, particularly as regards their safety and protection of their privacy, where there is a serious risk of reprisals or firm evidence of intent to intrude upon their privacy. 1. Member States shall ensure a suitable level of protection for crime victims and their families or persons in a similar position, particularly as regards their safety and protection of their privacy, where the competent authorities in the procedure believe there is a serious risk of reprisals or firm evidence permitting the victims to presume the existence of intent to intrude upon