Answer given by Mr Kovács on behalf of the Commission (31 May 2007) Directive 2006/112/EC Council Directive 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax, OJ L 347, 11.12.2006. (hereinafter: the VAT Directive) provides for the application of a minimum standard rate of 15 % to taxable operations and allows, but does not oblige, Member States to apply one or two reduced minimum rates of 5 % to supplies of goods and services in the categories listed in Annex III to the directive. Category C2 of Annex III covers ‘accommodation provided in hotels and similar establishments, including the provision of holiday accommodation and the letting of places on camping or caravan sites’. A reduced rate may therefore be applied to those services. However, restaurant services are not included in the annex and are therefore subject to the standard rate. Within this basic framework, Member States may set their rates without prior authorisation. In conformity with the principle of subsidiarity, it is up to each Member State to set its rate in accordance with its own budget policy. To these basic rules have been added a large number of specific temporary derogations enabling some or all Member States to apply other rules. These derogations were obtained by the Member States concerned either during their accession negotiations or during the negotiation of the directive which amended the VAT Directive on rates. Thus, for example, some Member States such as the United Kingdom have been able to maintain a zero rate, or to continue to apply other rates lower than those which normally apply. This is also how some Member States are able to continue to apply a reduced rate to restaurants, while others are not allowed to introduce a reduced rate in this sector. This has led to a particularly complex situation which is very well described by the Honourable Member. In its proposal of 23 July 2003 amending the sixth Directive on reduced rates COM(2003)397 final. , the Commission had in particular proposed adding restaurant services to Annex III. The Council did not adopt this specific proposal but instructed the Commission to present to Parliament and the Council an overall assessment report on the impact of reduced rates, notably in terms of job creation, economic growth and the proper functioning of the internal market (Article 101 of Directive 2006/112/EC). Special attention should be paid to restaurants. This report must be presented by 30 June 2007 at the latest, and be based on a study carried out by an independent economic think-tank. The study is currently in progress. The Commission’s report will present the study’s main findings and will open up avenues to explore with a view to discussion between the Member States and the European institutions of future work on reduced rates of VAT. The report will normally be followed by public consultation of all stakeholders concerned. This should prepare the ground for a new Commission proposal on reduced rates of VAT offering a lasting solution in this field. The introduction of a reduced rate within a particular