Answer given by Mr Piebalgs on behalf of the Commission (25 May 2007) The Commission recognises the role of coal as an important contributor to the EU's security of energy supply. This has been clearly stated, not only in the Green Paper of March 2006 to which the Honourable Member's question refers, but also in subsequent documents issued by the Commission in the field of energy, including the communication of January 2007 entitled ‘An energy policy for Europe’ COM(2007)1 final. , which was largely endorsed by the European Council on 9 March 2007. It should be noted that the advantages for the security of supply from retaining coal in the energy mix do not primarily hinge on its origin. Coal provides benefits to the security of supply through fuel diversification, resource abundance and relative stability of supply and procurement possibilities. However, coal is the fossil fuel with strongest negative environmental impacts, including from emissions of traditional air quality pollutants, emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2), and the impacts of mining and coal transport. While improvements have been achieved on traditional pollutants (nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, particulate matter), coal’s high carbon content results in high levels of carbon dioxide from its combustion. In EU‑27, around 950 million tonnes of CO2 were emitted from coal-fired power generation in 2005. This represents 70 % of Europe’s total CO2 emissions from power generation and 24 % of EU CO2 emissions across all sectors. For this reason, the Commission's communication on sustainable power generation from fossil fuels Communication from the Commission to the Council and Parliament — Sustainable power generation from fossil fuels: aiming for near-zero emissions from coal after 2020, COM(2006)843 final. of January 2007 stated that coal can continue to make its valuable contribution to the security of energy only with technologies allowing for drastic reduction of the carbon footprint of its combustion, and in particular the deployment of carbon capture and geological storage. The communication states the Commission's belief that by 2020 all new coal-fired power plants should be built with carbon capture and storage (CCS). Existing plants should then progressively follow the same approach. The Commission is currently undertaking an analysis on the options for achieving this goal, and on this basis will come forward with proposals as part of the enabling legislative framework for CCS, scheduled for end 2007. With regard to state aid to the coal industry, the Commission would like to draw attention to the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 1407/2002/EC Council Regulation (EC) No 1407/2002 of 23 July 2002 on state aid to the coal industry, OJ L 205, 2.8.2002, as amended by Annex II, point 12 of the Treaty of Accession of the New Member States. , which provides the legal basis for authorising state aid to coal mines in the Member States. Currently, 11 Member States make use of this regulation. Major European coal producers have been involved in the EU's efforts aimed at developing cleaner and more sustainable methods of energy production. Besides the participation of a number of European coal producers and their associations in