Answer given by Ms Damanaki on behalf of the Commission (1 April 2011) The Commission proposal for the 2011 fishing opportunities was based on the principles set out in the communication from the Commission on fishing opportunities for 2011 COM(2010)241 final. . These indicate that the total allowable catches (TACs) should follow the advice from the Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee for Fisheries (STECF), establishing quantities of fish that can be caught sustainably, while being consistent with the objective of achieving maximum sustainable yield (MSY) by 2015. In addition, fishing opportunities for fisheries subject to international agreements should be set in accordance with the conditions provided for in those agreements. The reduction of the blue whiting TAC mentioned by the Honourable Member follows the application of the management plan agreed by Norway, EU, the Faroe Islands, Iceland and the Northeast Atlantic Fisheries Commission (NEAFC) in 2008 and is justified in view of the scientific advice. While the estimates of the status of this widely distributed and migratory stock are uncertain, all available information shows that the numbers of new fish surviving to one year of age — at which time they are recruited to the fishery — have been at a historically low level since 2006 and that the spawning stock biomass has declined sharply since 2003. The remaining stock consists mainly of older fish limiting the sources for rebuilding the stock in the short term. The scientific advice, although not certain either on this point, sees good chances that there are two stocks, north and south, of blue whiting. However, scientists also note that even if this were verified, significant mixing would still be present. In these conditions, it would be extremely difficult to identify and delimit geographically these two stocks with any precision so as to allow them to be managed as separate stocks. Whether one or two stocks, in the present situation, management measures covering the fishery as a whole are therefore justified. The TAC level that has been fixed for 2011 is therefore appropriate and necessary in order to ensure the sustainability of the stock and to safeguard future fishing possibilities for the sector fishing this stock.