law, but puts forward a common set of rules for determining which country’s law should apply in the event of a divorce between spouses of different nationalities. At present, some 300 000 marriages take place each year between partners of different nationalities in the EU, bringing the total number of international marriages to 16 million. Of these marriages, in the EU as a whole, 140 000 - 170 000 per year end in divorce. These figures, together with the widely divergent substantive rules of divorce law which exist in the EU as a whole, make clear the urgency of creating greater legal certainty in the event of divorce or separation. The Commission therefore proposes to enhance the parties’ autonomy in the event of divorce and legal separation by giving them the option, within a given framework, to choose the law applicable to their divorce or legal separation. Within this framework the spouses should have the right to opt for the law of a country with which they have particular links. The law chosen must be one which is compatible with the common values of the European Union. Rapporteur’s view The rapporteur for the opinion supports in principle the substance of the rules for determining the law applicable to divorce and legal separation. The amendments in this opinion seek to adjust the Commission proposal so as to clearly rule out any discrimination on the grounds of gender, guarantee equal opportunities for both spouses and give central priority to the welfare of the children. Finally, however, the rapporteur takes the view that a uniform pan-European system of rules governing the applicable law in the event of divorce and legal separation ought not to be the last word, but that in a second stage rules ought also to be adopted to cover the consequences of divorce (property rights, maintenance, apportionment of pension rights). The rules in the proposed regulation do not cover the consequences of divorce. AMENDMENTS The Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality calls on the Committee on Legal Affairs, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following suggestions in its motion for a resolution: Amendment 1 Proposal for a regulation Recital 2 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (2a) Pursuant to Article 8 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in all its activities the Union is to aim to eliminate inequalities, and to promote equality, between men and women. Amendment 2 Proposal for a regulation Recital 15 a (new) Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (15a) If the spouses are unable to agree on the applicable law, they should complete a mediation procedure including at least one consultation with an authorised mediator. Amendment 3 Proposal for a regulation Recital 16 Text proposed by the Commission Amendment (16) The informed choice of the two spouses is a basic principle of this Regulation. Each spouse should know exactly what are the legal and social implications of the choice of applicable law. The possibility of choosing the applicable law by common agreement should be without prejudice to the rights