others. Given that material living conditions within the EU are improving constantly and disparities between the Member States are being ironed out, however, it is to be expected that EUR 10 000 may be seen as a reasonable threshold for solidity in all the Member States in the near future. It should also be borne in mind that a certain amount of capital represents the counterpart to the limited extent of the company’s liability. The rapporteur would clearly state, however, that he does not see this proposed amendment as crucial for the general acceptability of the SPE. The key point is that minimum capital should not represent a serious obstacle to establishment. In this context, a lower amount of capital stock is also conceivable. The committee adopted the rapporteur' s new compromise proposal opting for a capital of the SPE of at least 1 EUR, provided that the articles of association require that the management body sign a solvency certificate. If not, the capital is at least 8000 EUR. 2. Employee participation in the company The rapporteur recognises that the arrangements proposed by the Commission (the participation rules of the country where the SPE has its registered office apply) are clear and unequivocal and reflect the status quo. As such, he supports the essence of the proposal. However, it cannot be denied that this arrangement is open to being circumvented. This would be the case where the SPE has recruited employees in different Member States. The rapporteur would stress that this situation is not being created by the SPE regulation but corresponds to the law in force. Moreover, neither company law in general nor the SPE regulation in particular are responsible for distortions in social legislation within the European Union. The rapporteur nevertheless wishes to anticipate employees' concerns in the SPE regulation and address them as far as possible within this Community legal framework. The rapporteur has left untouched the principle set out in the Commission proposal that the legislation of the country in which the company has its registered office should serve as a yardstick. However, an exception should be made where the law of the country of registered office, which in principle applies, would curtail the participation rights enjoyed by a certain proportion of the SPE's employees in the Member State in which they actually work. In this event, the SPE's management is called upon to provide uniform participation arrangements throughout the SPE in a process of negotiations with employees’ representatives. Standard rules would apply where management and employees are unable to agree on a uniform solution. The standard rules would lay down uniform participation of one-third of the SPE's employees. This addition to the Commission proposal is aimed at preventing any possibility of circumvention. At the same time it reflects a basic concern of the SPE regulation, namely to establish a uniform solution for each SPE. Furthermore, the possibility of negotiation strengthens the responsibility of entrepreneurs and employees. Finally, the standard rules offer a clear alternative solution. The rapporteur has based the wording of this proposal on the SE