Academy. Distribution and exploitation Releasing a film generally entails major and rapid investment, which as a rule cannot be recouped at the box office. In view of the numerous ways in which films are exploited (cinemas, video, DVD, unrestricted-access television, pay television, pay per view, video on demand, internet, etc.), only 20 or 30% of total revenue now comes via cinemas. The operation of cinemas remains important, because it determines a film’s image and its promotion and market value. Film distribution is becoming an increasingly risky business, partly because TV stations are showing fewer and fewer non-national European films. As a result, distributors can no longer recoup their costs via the television market. The video market has likewise mainly been cornered by American productions. This is leading to more cautious distribution policies. Therefore, when the time comes to revise the ‘Television Without Frontiers’ Directive, consideration should perhaps be given to including among the requirements to broadcast European works a minimum quota for non-national productions. The European market is very fragmented, inter alia because of cultural and linguistic differences and because Member States’ film policies are not very international. The international career of a film is generally the sum of the decisions taken by local distributors. Pan-European distribution initiatives have not yielded the intended results: Europe produces too little for a cost-intensive distribution major to be viable. The formation of long-term European networks is also often impeded by national differences which stand in the way of a common selection and release policy. The MEDIA Plus measures, comprising selective and automatic distribution support and support to sales agents, are adequate. Since the inception of MEDIA II, the number of European films distributed outside their country of origin has risen by 85%. But this has not led to a significant increase in their market share, as the programme’s funding is too limited. If it is our ambition to develop a lasting film industry, it will nonetheless, in the longer term, be necessary to create strong transnational distribution structures. Small-scale initiatives must also be encouraged. As far as cinemas are concerned, two parallel developments are taking place: on the one hand there are multiplexes , which mostly show mainstream films, and on the other hand there are small ‘independent’ cinemas showing more art films and more European films. However, the latter venues often lag behind in terms of amenity and technical quality. Could scope be created within the i2i initiative of the Commission and the EIB Group for infrastructure development by independent cinemas, e.g. in the form of cheap loans or the provision of guarantees? The European Structural Funds could also be used to modernise and expand cinemas in economically disadvantaged regions. Lastly, e-cinema. Digital distribution and projection techniques have many advantages, because they make the distribution process simpler and cheaper and can be used to make different language versions available. However, it will be some time before they are used on a large scale. The farsighted attitude of the Commission and Council, the establishment of the European Digital Cinema Forum and a number of experimental