women in Libya and Egypt; 2. Strongly condemns forced virginity tests inflicted by the Egyptian army on women protesters arrested in Tahrir Square and considers this practice as unacceptable as it amounts to a form of torture; calls on the Egypt's Supreme Military Council to take immediate measures to stop this degrading treatment and to ensure that all security and army forces are clearly instructed that torture and other ill-treatment, including forced virginity tests, cannot longer be tolerated; 3. Calls on the Egyptian authorities to take urgent steps to end torture, investigate all cases of abuse against peaceful demonstrators, and stop prosecuting civilians before military tribunals; is particularly concerned by reports from Human Rights organisations stating that minors have been arrested and condemned by military tribunals; 4. Recommends that an independent inquiry be established to hold the perpetrators accountable, with particular reference to the investigation of crimes committed by Gaddafi under the terms of the International Criminal Court; 5. Stresses that everyone should be able to express their views on the democratic future in their country without being detained, tortured or subjected to degrading and discriminatory treatment; 6. Strongly believes that the changes taking place in North Africa and the Middle East must contribute towards the end of discrimination of women and their full participation in society on equal terms with men and in compliance with the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, CEDAW; 7. Stresses the need to ensure women's rights generally in the new democratic and legal structures of these societies; 8. Emphasises that the role of women in the revolutions should be acknowledged, including the threats they face and the way in which they can defend their rights; 9. Stresses that there is a need to mainstream human rights and ENP policies and to actively share EU experience on gender violence and equality, as an integral part of the democratisation process; also stresses the need to effectively implement the EU guidelines on violence against women and girls and combating all forms of discrimination against them, in particular to prevent sexual violence against women, to protect and support victims and prosecute of the perpetrators of such violence; 10. Emphasises the need to implement gender mainstreaming and to support specific actions so as to achieve an effective and systematic gender-equality approach in the ENP countries; urges governments and civil society to increase women’s social inclusion, fight female illiteracy, promote women’s employment and their financial autonomy so as to ensure a meaningful presence of women at all levels; 11. Calls on the VP/HR, the EEAS and the Commission to place at the top of the agenda for their talks with ENP southern countries the EU’s political priorities of death penalty abolition, respect for human rights, including women’s human rights, and respect for fundamental freedoms, and the ratification of a number of international legal instruments, including the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the 1951 Convention relating to the Status of Refugees; 12. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the