WRITTEN QUESTION E-3380/06 by Georgios Papastamkos (PPE‑DE) to the Commission (20 July 2006) Subject: Vocational training of young sportsmen and women The Declaration on the specific characteristics of sport issued by the Nice European Council (2000) emphasises that ‘the Community must, in all its actions, take account of the social, educational and cultural functions inherent in sport and making it special, in order that the code of ethics and the solidarity essential to the preservation of its social role may be respected and nurtured’. Moreover, in its report to the European Council (Helsinki Report on Sport, COM(1999)644 final), the Commission states, inter alia , that ‘the “trade” in young sportsmen and women must be combated. Each young sportsman or woman trained by a club for top-level competition must receive vocational training in addition to sports training’. After tough negotiations, Commissioners Monti, Reding and Diamantopoulou completed their consultations with the presidents of FIFA and UEFA on international transfers of footballers on 5 March 2001. FIFA and UEFA undertook to adopt new transfer rules on the basis of principles aimed at promoting the training of young footballers and ensuring the stability of teams and the integrity, legality and proper conduct of games, bearing in mind the specific characteristics of football. In view of the above, will the Commission state: 1. In which specific cases has it identified a ‘trade’ in young sportsmen and women in the EU? Have allegations concerning this matter been brought to its attention? 2. What is the functional content of the education of young sportsmen and women? What kind of vocational training should they be given? 3. What actions have been taken by the EU and the Member States to honour the commitment announced above? How can the additional vocational training of young sportsmen and women be incorporated in existing European legislative and financial frameworks? 4. To what extent is the Commission satisfied with the way which FIFA and UEFA have honoured their commitment to provide young sportsmen and women with training and education by adopting new rules on international transfers? If it is not satisfied, does it intend to set in motion the procedures provided for by Community law?