Answer given by Mr Rehn on behalf of the Commission (3 February 2005) While Turkey’s accession would undoubtedly have an important impact on the EU budget, it is difficult to make any meaningful estimates given the numerous uncertainties. For example, it is difficult to predict what economic developments there will be in both the EU as well as in Turkey between now and a possible Turkish accession; it is also impossible to know now the degree to which the EU’s spending and other policies will evolve during this period. As stated in the Presidency’s conclusions (para. 23) of the European Council of 16 and 17 December 2004 ‘…accession negotiations yet to be opened with candidates whose accession could have substantial financial consequences can only be concluded after the establishment of the Financial Framework for the period from 2014 together with possible consequential financial reforms.’ It is clear, in any case, that the level of financial support Turkey will receive from the EU budget will be subject to negotiations, as it was the case with the previous enlargement round. Notwithstanding this, the Commission has made for illustrative purposes some rough indicative estimates of possible expenditure, based on the current acquis, as well as of possible contributions to the EU budget by Turkey. These estimates are included in the Commission document ‘Issues arising from Turkey’s membership perspective’ published on 6 October 2004 SEC (2004) 1202 . These estimates show that the main budgetary impact would be due to the extension of the EU’s Common Agricultural Policy and regional policy to Turkey. For example, based on current rules, the cost of extending the existing Common Agricultural Policy to Turkey could by 2025 amount to €5.3 billion for direct payments and €660 million for market expenditure (both in 2004 prices), assuming Turkey joined in 2015 and direct payments were phased-in over 10 years. For rural development currently funded by the European Agriculture Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF), the annual allocation for Turkey based on the approach followed with Bulgaria and Romania would be around €2.3 billion (in 2004 prices), meaning the total cost of agricultural expenditure in 2025 would be €8.2 billion in today’s prices. While no meaningful estimates could be made with respect to regional policy, particularly in view of the fact that the existing rules have never been applied to a country of similar size, similar level of economic development and similar intensity of regional disparities as Turkey, the Commission pointed out in the above mentioned document that, for illustrative purposes, based on continued real annual gross domestic product (GDP) growth in Turkey of 4 to 5%, by 2025 annual transfers would amount to just over €5.6 billion (2004 prices) for each one percentage point of Turkey’s GDP granted in regional aid. As regards pre-accession aid, the annual volume of pre-accession assistance to Turkey has been gradually increasing since 2002 (€126 million), and is expected to reach some €500 million by the end of the current financial perspective in 2006. While the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 still remains to be agreed, the