Article 9(3) that such a parent undertaking proposes to acquire a holding in a Community investment firm, in consequence of which the latter would become its subsidiary. That obligation to provide information shall lapse whenever agreement is reached with the third country concerned or when the measures referred to in the first and second subparagraphs of paragraph 3 cease to apply. 5. Measures taken under this Article shall comply with the Community's obligations under any international agreements, bilateral or multilateral, governing the taking up or pursuit of the business of investment firms. Chapter II OPERATING CONDITIONS FOR INVESTMENT FIRMS Section 1 General provisions Article 15 General obligation in respect of on-going supervision 1. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities keep under regular review the organisational arrangements which investment firms are required to put in place as a condition for initial authorisation. 2. Member States shall require investment firms or their external auditor to notify the competent authorities of any material changes to their programme of operations . Member States shall require investment firms to provide the competent authorities on request with all information needed to verify that modified organisational requirements are sufficient to ensure continued compliance with the obligations under this Directive. 3. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities monitor the activities of investment firms so as to assess compliance with the operating conditions provided for in this Chapter and other obligations under this Directive. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities obtain the information needed to assess the compliance of investment firms with those obligations. 4. In the case of investment firms which provide only investment advice, the competent authority may delegate the function of regular monitoring of operational and organisational requirements to a body meeting the requirements set out in Article 46(2). Article 16 Conflicts of interest 1. Member States shall require investment firms to take all reasonable steps to identify conflicts of interest between themselves, including their managers and employees, and their clients or between one client and another that arise in the course of providing any investment and ancillary services, or combinations thereof. 2. Member States shall require that investment firms whose activities give rise to conflicts of interest maintain and operate effective organisational and administrative arrangements to prevent those conflicts from adversely affecting the interests of clients, or otherwise manage them so as to achieve the same result. 3. Where organisational or administrative arrangements made by the investment firm to manage conflicts of interest are not sufficient to ensure, with reasonable confidence, that risks of damage to client interests will be effectively avoided, the investment firm shall clearly disclose the general nature and/or sources of conflicts of interest to the client before undertaking business on its behalf. 4. In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure consistent application of paragraphs 1 and 2, the Commission may adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2) , implementing measures to: a) specify the steps that investment firms might reasonably be expected to take to identify,