the arrival of the new Member States and the nomination and appointment of a new Commission and in order to take account of the work which will have to be carried out in order to implement the UCITS directive, we need to think seriously before opposing this proposal for a directive. Nonetheless, two years after the declaration made by Mr Prodi before the plenary, the institutional framework has not evolved. The work of the Convention has, certainly, led to a definition, under Article 35 of the draft Constitutional Treaty, of delegated regulations, which would be enacted by the Commission in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the basic legislative provisions. This article also provides for the possibility of revoking the delegation of powers, as well as a genuine right of call back for the European Parliament and the Council. However, we had to draw the attention of those drawing up the draft Constitution, and subsequently of representatives of Member State governments, to possible confusion between the provisions relating to delegated regulations under Article 35 and those relating to implementing acts under Article 36, which in our view correspond to classic comitology rules. It is for us absolutely without question that only Article 35 of the draft Constitution is applicable to texts relating to financial services (securities, banking, insurance, conglomerates, UCITS, etc) . It is only on that condition that our Committee and the European Parliament are able to consider that the Article 35 in question meets the institutional demands which we have constantly made, and in particular those set out in connection with the Lamfalussy process. It emerged in the course of the proceedings of the IGC that the aforementioned Article 35 ultimately did not give rise to any objections on the part of the Member States. However, as the proceedings of the IGC have been interrupted, it no longer seems possible to find a solution with regard to this proposal for a directive on the basis of Article 35 by the end of the current legislative term. 4) Conditions for reaching an agreement on the extension of the Lamfalussy process to the banking and insurance sectors Against this political background, it must therefore be on a conditional basis that we envisage giving our approval to the extension of the Lamfalussy process provided for in this directive, namely based on significant, formal undertakings by the Council, the Member States and the Commission on respect for the institutional rights of the European Parliament. This would essentially have to be reflected in respect for the institutional balance between the two branches of the legislative authority in the legislative procedure for all financial services. In the course of the discussions and negotiations which have taken place with the Irish Presidency in preparing this report, it has emerged that a consensus might be acceptable to our Committee and Parliament on the following basis: - The Commission would accept the amendments contained in this report and President Prodi would make a new declaration before the plenary in order to reassure Parliament of the Commission's