to determine the investment services and financial instruments suitable for that client. These obligations shall be modulated according to the complexity of the investment services and financial instruments being proposed and shall not apply where investment advice, as referred to in Article 3(1)(4), is not being provided. In such cases, product promotional literature and/or the initial agreement with the client shall make clear that no advice is being provided. 5. Timely information shall be provided to the client regarding financial instruments, proposed investments and execution venues which is fair, clear and not misleading, so as to enable the client to take investment decisions on an informed basis. These obligations shall be modulated according to the complexity of the investment services and financial instruments being proposed and shall not apply where investment advice, as referred to in Article 3(1)(4), is not being provided. In such cases, product promotional literature and/or the initial agreement with the client shall make clear that no advice is being provided. 6. When providing advice or discretionary services, appropriate guidance and warnings on the risks associated with investments in particular types of instruments or investment strategies shall be provided to the client having particular regard to the information which the firm has obtained about the client's knowledge and experience. 7. A documentary record of an agreement between the firm and the client shall be established which sets out the rights and obligations of the parties and the other terms on which the firm will provide services to the client. A documentary record of an agreement may also be made in a standardised format. 8. The client shall receive an order confirmation and a settlement note. The settlement note shall include the costs associated with the transactions and services undertaken on behalf of the client. 9. In order to ensure the necessary protection of investors and the consistent application of paragraphs 1 to 8 the Commission shall adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 60(2), implementing measures to ensure that investment firms comply with the principles set out therein when providing investment or ancillary services to their clients. Those implementing measures shall take into account: a) the nature of the service(s) offered or provided to the client or potential client, including the particular procedures and systems which investment firms use to execute orders on behalf of clients; b) the nature of the financial instruments being offered or considered; c) the retail or professional nature of the client or potential clients including adequate grandfathering provisions for the categorisation of existing clients and leaving a sufficient degree of flexibility for investment firms when implementing the categorisation set out in Annex II. Where appropriate, the implementing measures adopted under this paragraph may provide that the principles set out in paragraphs 1 to 8 shall not apply to professional clients or potential professional clients and/or that conduct of business rules may be waived by professional clients, if they so wish. 10. Member States shall ensure that an investment firm receiving from another investment firm an instruction to perform investment or ancillary