and while the vehicle is stopped. The development of defensive driving – anticipating danger, making allowance for other road users – which goes hand in hand with rational fuel consumption, will have a positive impact both on society and on the road transport sector itself. (11) This Directive should not affect the rights acquired by a driver who has held the driving licence necessary to carry out the activity of driving since before the date laid down for obtaining a CPC certifying the corresponding initial qualification or the periodic training. (12) Only training centres which have been approved by the competent authorities of the Member States should be able to organise the training courses laid down for the initial qualification and the periodic training. To ensure the quality of these approved centres, the competent authorities should set harmonised criteria for their approval , including that of well-established professionalism . (13) Not only the competent authorities of the Member States but also any entity designated by them should be responsible for organising the tests provided for in connection with the initial qualification and the periodic training. Given the importance of this Directive for road safety and for the equality of conditions of competition, the competent authorities of the Member States should supervise such tests. (14) Member States should prescribe that the first session of periodic training is to be completed, and should issue the corresponding CPC, within the five years following either the date of issue of the CPC certifying the initial qualification or the expiry date of the time limit set for certain drivers to claim their acquired rights. It should also be possible for these time limits to be shortened or extended. Following his first periodic training, the driver should undergo periodic training every five years. (15) To certify that a driver who is a national of a Member State is the holder of one of the CPCs provided for by this Directive, and to facilitate mutual recognition of the various CPCs, Member States should affix the harmonised Community code laid down for that purpose, together with the code's expiry date, either to the driving licence or to the new driver qualification card, to be mutually recognised by Member States, the harmonised model of which is laid down by this Directive. This card should meet the same security requirements as the driving licence, given the importance of the rights which it confers for road safety and the equality of conditions of competition. The possibility afforded to Member States to affix the Community code on the new card should enable them to lay down a period of validity for driving licences which does not coincide with the date of expiry of the validity of periodic training, given that Directive 91/439/EEC Council Directive 91/439/EEC of 29 July 1991 on driving licences (OJ L 237, 24.8.1991, p. 1). Directive last amended by Commission Directive 2000/56/EC (OJ L 237, 21.9.2000, p. 45). provides that each Member State is to retain the right to determine, on the basis of national criteria, the period of validity of