of higher education within the Adirondack Park.", " Paul Smith's College offers both two- and four-year programs in many fields, including natural resources, environmental science, fisheries and wildlife science, forestry, recreation, biology, hotel and restaurant management, culinary arts and business.", " Its 14,000-acre campus is one of the largest college campuses in the world.", " Approximately 1,000 students attend each year." ] ], [ "Gabriels, New York", [ "Gabriels is a hamlet in the town of Brighton in Franklin County, New York, inside the Adirondack Park near Paul Smiths.", " The village developed around a tuberculosis cure facility, the Gabriels Sanatorium, which was opened in 1897 by the Catholic Sisters of Mercy.", " The land was donated by Paul Smith and W. Seward Webb.", " The site was later purchased by Paul Smith's College.", " The site was sold to the Department of Corrections in 1982.", " The Department of Corrections' Camp Gabriels closed in 2009." ] ], [ "St. John's in the Wilderness Episcopal Church", [ "St. John's in the Wilderness Episcopal Church is an Episcopal church in Paul Smiths in the Adirondacks, New York State, United States.", " It was founded in 1876 by Dr. Edward Livingston Trudeau with the help of Paul Smith and many of the wealthy camp owners around Spitfire, Upper, and Lower Saint Regis Lakes.", " The original log building burned in 1928, and was replaced by the present structure, designed by William G. Distin, in 1930.", " The non-denominational cemetery surrounding the church contains the graves of Dr. Trudeau, Paul Smith, Charles Minot Dole (founder of the National Ski Patrol), Clifford R. Pettis (the father of reforestation) and several other notable residents of the area." ] ], [ "Marjo", [ "Marjolène Morin (born 2 August 1953), professionally known as Marjo, is a Canadian singer-songwriter from Quebec." ] ], [ "Paul Smith (footballer, born 22 January 1976)", [ "Ian Paul Smith (born 22 January 1976 in Easington, County Durham), known as Paul Smith, is an English footballer who played in the Football League for Burnley, Oldham Athletic, Hartlepool United and Sheffield Wednesday." ] ] ] }