number of Members in each political group. Rule 24 Duties of the Conference of Presidents 1. The Conference of Presidents shall carry out the duties assigned to it under the Rules of Procedure. 2. The Conference of Presidents shall take decisions on the organisation of Parliament's work and matters relating to legislative planning. 3. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for matters relating to relations with the other institutions and bodies of the European Union and with the national parliaments of Member States. The Bureau shall name two Vice-Presidents who shall be entrusted with the implementation of the relations with national parliaments. They shall report back regularly to the Conference of Presidents on their activities in this regard. 4. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for matters relating to relations with non-member countries and with non-Union institutions and organisations. 5. The Conference of Presidents shall draw up the draft agenda of Parliament's part-sessions. 6. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for the composition and competence of committees, committees of inquiry and joint parliamentary committees, standing delegations and ad hoc delegations. 7. The Conference of Presidents shall decide how seats in the Chamber are to be allocated pursuant to Rule 32. 8. The Conference of Presidents shall be the authority responsible for authorising the drawing up of own-initiative reports. 9. The Conference of Presidents shall submit proposals to the Bureau concerning administrative and budgetary matters relating to the political groups. Rule 25 Duties of the Quaestors The Quaestors shall be responsible for administrative and financial matters directly concerning Members, pursuant to guidelines laid down by the Bureau. Rule 26 Conference of Committee Chairs 1. The Conference of Committee Chairs shall consist of the chairs of all standing or temporary committees and shall elect its chair. 2. The Conference of Committee Chairs may make recommendations to the Conference of Presidents about the work of committees and the drafting of the agenda of part-sessions. 3. The Bureau and the Conference of Presidents may instruct the Conference of Committee Chairs to carry out specific tasks. Rule 27 Conference of Delegation Chairs 1. The Conference of Delegation Chairs shall consist of the chairs of all standing interparliamentary delegations and shall elect its chair. 2. The Conference of Delegation Chairs may make recommendations to the Conference of Presidents about the work of delegations. 3. The Bureau and the Conference of Presidents may instruct the Conference of Delegation Chairs to carry out specific tasks. Rule 28 Accountability of the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents 1. The minutes of the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents shall be translated into the official languages, printed and distributed to all Members of Parliament and shall be accessible to the public, unless the Bureau or the Conference of Presidents exceptionally, for reasons of confidentiality, as laid down in Article 4(1) to (4) of European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001, decides otherwise with regard to certain items of the minutes. 2. Any Member may ask questions related to the work of the