MEPs approve €308bn Structural Funds 2007-13 package Regional policy 2006-07-04 - 16:38 Parliament gave the green-light to the Structural Funds package for 2007 to 2013 with the adoption of five separate reports. They define the objectives, the financial resources available and the criteria for their allocation in an enlarged EU. Around €308 billion - or 35.7 per cent of the total EU budget - will now be available to spend, as scheduled, from 1 January 2007. The structural funds aim to increase solidarity and reduce disparities between regions of the EU. General Regulation The first report adopted by 533 votes in favour, 41 against and 53 abstentions lays down the general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), European Social Fund (ESF) and the Cohesion Fund. Although the European Parliament only has assent powers over the general regulation (i.e. it can accept or reject the package but not amend it), the rapporteur Konstantinos HATZIDAKIS (EPP-ED, EL) and the Parliament successfully negotiated with the Austrian Presidency to have many of the MEPs' demands included in the Council’s position, including: enhancement of the environmental aspect, in particular sustainable development, in the management of Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund and introduction of a new article which would ensure that this dimension is always taken into account in the implementation of the Funds; a specific mention of the fact that Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund should support the improvement and promotion of accessibility for people with disabilities; the strengthening of the partnership principle: namely that any other appropriate body representing civil society, environmental partners, non-governmental organisations and bodies responsible for promoting equality between men and women can take part in the structural funds partnership negotiations. The Council rejected however the Parliament’s idea of a common declaration of Council, Commission and Parliament on a Community performance reserve which would have aimed to re-use unspent structural funds money instead of it returning to the general EU budget. Mr Hatzadakis said: "As a Greek citizen, I can say this is the end of a marathon, it means there has been no cuts in the cohesion budget and it means that European tax payers money will be spent more effectively and efficiently". European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) After negotiations with rapporteur Claudio FAVA (PES, IT) and the European Parliament, the Council has taken on board the main concerns of the Parliament, for the ERDF: On VAT, the Commission had proposed to render eligible non-recoverable VAT only in the case of the European Social Fund. The European Council concluded that non-recoverable VAT would be eligible under the rules of the ERDF, ESF and the Cohesion Fund only for those Member States whose GDP does not exceed 85% of the average EU GDP. Parliament requested that this should be extended to cover all Member States. The Council finally agreed to this request. On housing, the Commission proposed to render housing ineligible. The European Council proposed to provide for the eligibility of housing in the ERDF Regulation for Member States whose GDP does not exceed 85% of the average EU GDP.