Question for written answer E-9231/2010 to the Commission Rule 117 Diogo Feio (PPE) and Nuno Melo (PPE) (9 November 2010) Subject: Code-share agreement between Transportadora Aérea Portuguesa (TAP) and Brussels Airlines (SN) In 2009, as a result of SN joining the Star Alliance Group, a code-sharing agreement (‘the Agreement’) was signed between SN and TAP. In consequence, the two companies started jointly operating five two-way daily flights, with identical prices for the same connections. It should be noted that at present (and indeed for the last two years) no other airline operates the Lisbon-Brussels-Lisbon and Brussels-Lisbon-Brussels route, which means that TAP and SN have a monopoly on this connection. As a result, ticket prices are higher than for other connections such as Porto and Faro, where there is direct competition from other airlines, namely the low-cost airline Ryanair. Given the provisions of Article 101 of the TFEU, it is clear that the effect of Agreement between SN and TAP, even if it has no such object is ‘the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition within the internal market’ in that it fixes ‘directly or indirectly … purchase or selling prices for any other trading conditions’. For that reason, we think that the Agreement in question is void, in the terms of Article 101(2). Finally, bearing in mind Commissioner Siim Kallas’ reply of 25 June 2010 to Question E‑2371/2010, stating that ‘code shares can produce anti-competitive effects’, 1. Has the Commission been monitoring this situation? Has the issue of infringement of Article 101 of the TFEU by the Agreement been raised? 2. Does the Commission believe that the Agreement complies with Community rules on the right of competition, namely Article 101 of the TFEU? 3. Does the Commission believe that the Agreement complies with the principles of respect for the internal market and consumer protection? 4. Has it considered taking measures, if it should deem the Agreement to be in violation of Article 101 of the TFEU, as I believe to be the case?