being able to find a new certificating body and having their certification reissued, or moving from one Member State to another in order to continue their fraudulent dealings, or operators in the industry having no knowledge of their fraudulent past; 26. Stresses that the definition of organic farming must relate not only to the production method but also to a set of agricultural practices which guarantee respect for the environment and biodiversity, and enable healthy, high-quality foodstuffs to be produced. Acceptance must be gained for this definition of organic farming in international fora in order to safeguard the specificity of the organic farming industry in the context of international trade; 27. Considers it regrettable that the Commission presents no concrete financial measures relating to the organisation of distribution channels, and calls for support, including financial support, to be given in the framework of the structuring of production, processing and marketing; 28. Stresses to the Commission the fact that European organic farming needs firm support for the marketing and distribution of its products; calls on the Commission to put forward more concrete proposals on the subject, bearing in mind that: a) there is a need to tackle the current problem of high prices for organic products, b) there is a need to promote the focussing of supply on organic products, c) groupment into associations and the creation of organic producer organisations can play a fundamental role in facilitating marketing through common distribution channels, d) the formation of a large market favouring long distribution channels, with the resulting additional costs to the environment (of processing, preserving and transport), is not the most suitable approach given the inherent characteristics of organic production; it would therefore be advisable to promote shorter distribution channels, which would be certain to result in better distribution and more affordable prices and make it easier to trace and inspect the foods; 29. Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council and Commission. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Introduction : Growing, but precarious, success Organic farming now plays a fully developed role in the European agricultural landscape. In 1985 the area devoted to organic crops was no more than 100 000 hectares, belonging to some 6 000 farms, whereas 15 years later these figures had risen to 4.4 million hectares and 150 000 farms. Having taken off in this remarkable way, organic farming can no longer be looked upon as a nice little niche market of interest only to a few eccentric consumers. Although there is still wide variation, organic products now have a major place in some regions and sectors; this is true, notably, of Germany, where 80% of baby foods are organic. The benefits of organic farming are thus recognised at all levels, including the institutional one, and this is an excellent thing. However, while these facts are encouraging, they must not give rise to any illusions. There are still many obstacles in the path of organic farming, as is demonstrated by the perceptible slow-down in its growth registered over the past two years. These difficulties, which are due to the