Answer given by Mr Špidla on behalf of the Commission (15 September 2006) The situation at the Azambuja plant of General Motors (GM), and in the group as a whole, is of great concern to the Commission, especially with regard to the possible social impact of the announced decisions to close production. The Commission recalls, however, that it has no authority to prevent or defer the decisions of an individual company, as long as there is no breach of Community law. The Community legal framework provides for numerous provisions that are potentially relevant in the case of corporate restructuring, such as Council Directive 98/59/EC on the approximation of laws of the Member States on collective redundancies OJ L 225, 12.8.1998. , Council Directive 2001/23/EC on transfers of undertakings OJ L 82, 22.3.2001. , Council Directive 94/45/EC on the European Works Councils OJ L 254, 30.9.94; extended to the UK by Directive 97/74/EC, OJ L 10, 6.1.1998. , Directive 2002/74/EC on insolvency OJ L 270, 8.10.2002. and Directive 2002/14/EC establishing a general framework relating to information and consultation of workers in the EC OJ L 80, 23.3.2002. . The Commission points out that it is up to the competent national authorities, notably courts, to ensure the correct and effective application of the national transposing rules in view of the specific circumstances of each case and to ensure the fulfilment of any employer's duties in this regard. Complaints denouncing acts or omissions of a private person or body may only be registered by the Commission if the complaint reveals the failure of public authorities to act in response to those acts or omissions. The Commission has sought to widen and deepen the debate at Community level to ensure that restructuring is managed with due regard to its social consequences. The Commission adopted on 31 March 2005 a communication on ‘Restructuring and employment’ in which it formulates an overall and coherent approach with regard to restructuring. It includes Community policies aimed at anticipating and accompanying economic changes, supporting employment, encouraging regional development and strengthening the partnership for change. The Commission, however, believes that the proper management of corporate restructuring requires an active partnership between the social partners at all levels and particularly at local level. With regard to possible Community funding granted to the General Motors Group or to Opel in Portugal and in other Member States, the Commission has addressed an urgent request for information to the relevant national authorities. As regards Portugal, the competent national authorities confirmed that GM in Portugal projects received financial support both from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund (within Community Support Frameworks I and II ). The overall amount is EUR 7958000 for the European Regional Development Fund and EUR 693962 for the European Social Fund. A table summarising the ERDF co-financing granted to GM and a table summarising all the ESF co-financing granted to GM are sent directly to the Honourable Member and to Parliament's secretariat. The Commission will inform the Honourable Member as soon as it has received further relevant information, if