25/10/2004 MOTION FOR A RESOLUTION tabled for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law pursuant to Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure by Michael GAHLER and Bernd POSSELT on behalf of the EPP-ED Group on Iran The European parliament, - having regard to its previous resolutions on Iran, especially its resolution of 24 October 2002 on the human rights dialogue with Iran, - having regard to the EU Presidency statement on Iran of 18 July 2004, - having regard to the conclusions of the General Affairs and External Relations Council of 11 October 2004, - having regard to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, to which Iran is a state party, A. whereas Ms. Zhila Izadi, a 13 years old girl from the north-western city of Marivan, had been condemned to death by stoning after being found that she had been pregnant from her 15 years-old brother, B. whereas Ms. Ateqeh Rajabi, a 16 years old girl, was publicly hanged on a street in the city centre of Neka on 15 August, for "acts incompatible with chastity", C. whereas the execution of Ms. Ateqeh Rajabi was the tenth execution of a child offender in Iran recorded by Amnesty International since 1990, D. whereas according to reports in Iran's main newspapers at least 68 people have been executed in Iran since 1 January 2004, E. whereas Ms. Zahra Kazemi, a Canedian-Iranian freelance photographer, was arrested on 23 June 2003, while taking photographs outside Tehran's Evin Prison, and died on 10 July 2003 because of a brain hemorrhage resulting from beatings, F. whereas the journalists Mr. Shahram Rafi’zadeh, Mr. Hanif Mazrou’i, Mr. Rouzbeh Mir Ebrahimi, Mr. Omid Me’marian, Mr. Javad Qolam Tamayomi, Mr. Mehdi Derayati, Mr. Mas’oud Qoreyshi and Mr. Ahmad Vatankhah are accused by the Judiciary of contributing to reformist news websites or having created their own independent weblogs and are detained without respect for proper legal procedures, G. whereas Mr. Saeed Motalebi was arrested this year, because of the articles on the internet about the situation in Iran written by his son, who is living in The Netherlands, and others have been arrested in order to get confessions against their fathers, who are very active reformists, H. whereas a travel ban was imposed on journalist and human rights activist Mr. Emadeddin Baghi, preventing him from leaving Iran to attend human rights meetings in Europe, The United States and Canada, I. whereas the Iranian authorities are increasingly filtering internet sites, blocking access to several dozen online publications and political, social or cultural weblogs. J. whereas many journalists have been sentenced to serve months and even years in prison, others have left the country and some have chosen other professions in a quest for safety, 1. Strongly condemns the execution of Ms. Ateqeh Rajabi, the condemnation to death by stoning of Ms. Zhila Izadi and all the other condemnations to death and executions of child offenders in Iran; 2. Urges the Iranian authorities